ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u2	Congressman Mäenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u3	Mr President! At the beginning of September, when Posti’s long-standing crisis began to open up to the public, the Minister of Corporate Governance, Mr Paatero, collected political points by taking a time-out for Post’s substantial wage reduction plans. Prime Minister Rinne also threatened that wage cuts would not be accepted. Then it got quiet for a while. In reality, nothing has changed. According to PAU, 700 postal workers are still being reduced by up to 30-50% by transferring them to a cheaper collective agreement. Since then, the ministers mentioned above have been less haughty. According to STT's data, the Minister of Corporate Governance, Mr Paatero, knew about the wage cuts in good time and even supported them. First, Minister, you kept your mouth shut, then you went around the questions of journalists and said that the transfer had already been made. Who has blessed and what? What are you covering up when you haven't answered directly?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u4	Mr President! This dispute is undoubtedly, as has been said in Question Time before, very difficult, and the key to its solution is hopefully in the hands of the social partners, i.e. in the hands of workers and employers — just as usual on collective bargaining issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u7	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u8	Mr President! It does not inspire a great deal of confidence when the answers change and they are rotated and curved. Prime Minister Rinne is completely silent. The rest of the ministers are running away from their responsibility because they are not in charge of corporate governance. According to the evening newspaper, however, Prime Minister Rinne has whispered with the postal and logistics sector. Apparently to minimize the damage. [Department : Ohhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u9	Mr President! Representative, it is quite clear that this government has two lines of action in this area: that postal services will be better for every Finnish in the future than they are at present. And the fact that I saw the working conditions of 700 people,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u10	Mr President! The situation in the mail has been problematic for years. The position of workers has deteriorated and the quality of mail delivery has suffered. The cherry on top of the cake has been management fees, operations and golf shares. It's high time we put this in order. At the latest, the board will have to intervene in the game through corporate governance, as this is the way it is. The mail will soon be over. Mr President! I ask the minister concerned how, through corporate governance policy, the problems of Posti will be resolved without weakening the position of employees, so that, on another beautiful day, as many people said outside today, Kusti would pedal and the mail would run smoothly. Indeed, there were worried workers out there today on the stairs, and just like the representative. Mäenpää said that companies are also very concerned about this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u11	Mr President! It is understandable that Posti’s employees and customers, both companies and individuals, are concerned. That is why, together today, Posti and PAU have asked us very familiar and trusted people — Jukka Ahtela, Lasse Qualitynen, Ann Selin and Lauri Ihalainen — to support this solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u14	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u15	Mr President! The post office has 700 employees with a average earnings of EUR 2680 and will remain so until 2022 and probably beyond. It is quite a long time when this kind of salary remains the same, i.e. it does not count 30 or 50 per cent in three years. Yet you are talking about wage cuts, and the situation has been made to look like low-paid people are being oppressed. Are they really being oppressed? Is this really about a fight between ay organizations? Furthermore, the trade union thinks it can put pressure on its own party and its ministers to expel the Post government. Finnish companies are already paying for this power game, whose trucks run empty and ships run empty, and the negotiations are threatening. This situation is exacerbated by the fact that the Minister of Corporate Governance is avoiding responsibility. If you have known about this matter that such a union transfer is made — it is a big plan in the company, it is done for many months, it does not come suddenly, and the government does not decide on it suddenly
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u16	Mr President! Of course, with regard to salary, everyone believes that people should have such a salary that they get along well. That is the starting point. Here, on average, this EUR 2660, which is part of the sorting group, has already been secured in respect of the agreement that has been concluded by the Industry Union and the Media Union with its own protocol. It is also a matter of ensuring that, in the future, this salary will continue to be as good as possible for new workers, which will of course be maintained in this negotiation. That is what we have tried to communicate there, and I understand that the message has also been received.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u17	Mr President! The Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance does not accept and will not accept collective bargaining in any form. In the Finnish labour market, we do not allow room for development where the employer can choose his preferred contract. The Left Alliance defends the right of workers to adequate pay and fair working conditions. [Base Finns Group: How? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u21	Mr President! Even to this situation in Posti: each of us who even a little bit of politics and social events followed saw last spring before the parliamentary elections that in Posti this digitalisation is leading to something happening there, and then the Posti side was already showing signs that there are big changes being made. In the summer, when this government started, the first information was that the entire PAU will be transferred to an agreement between the Media Union and the Industry Union, which would have directly meant that the working conditions of more than 9,000 people would have been reduced by 30-50%. This was clearly prevented by the government. And without the government knowing about the concrete decision, 700 people were transferred to another collective agreement. This is a much, much more serious phenomenon than just the Post, although it is extremely difficult for these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u22	Mr President! As the owner, the state must exercise ownership and make decisions so that Finland does not drift into a strike avalanche. We don't have time for working groups. We need decisions now. Satisfied employees are the strength and quality guarantee of the company. TES shopping drives many families into problems: there is housing debt, there are families to support, and declining income also reduces future pensions. Mr President! The government receives tens of millions of dividends each year from Posti, and if dividends were to decrease, there would be no need to go to TES shopping. Prime Minister Rinne, I ask you whether the dividend requirements for Posti will be reduced or whether Posti will send future dividends in the form of increased development aid appropriations abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u25	The issue of dividends is a matter for the Minister of Ownership
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u26	Mr President! First of all: It is always unfortunate that we have to take collective action — always. But when you look at the number of industrial battles in Finland, what has happened in recent years, the number is very small, especially when compared to many other countries around here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u29	Mr President! This is a matter of great concern to the citizens, because, apart from the fact that we do not currently have Posti, we are also threatened by major subsidy strikes on our exports and are making it difficult for them to live, for example, in public transport and otherwise. It seems that what the government has said so far on this matter has made this situation more difficult than easier. Well, it is a good thing that you now have this group of rapporteurs, and these people are those who certainly enjoy public confidence. But the key issue now, of course, is that, now that we are looking for a solution to this issue together, will we, until then, abandon these lashes which are extremely harmful to Finnish society, the national economy and the citizens of Finland. Is it true that during the time when the rapporteurs are doing their job, there will be no such strikes and there will be peace of work?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u31	Mr President! We now have to see the reaction of the trade unions, which are on or on the way, when this information on the four-person working group mentioned just now has been published 15 minutes ago. If we can see a solution quickly, I believe it will also happen quickly with regard to these blockages. But they are not for us to decide here on the government of the country or on the parliament; they are for the trade unions to decide on them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u34	Mr President! The situation in the post office affects all Finns. The post office has spoken about this Chamber several times over the past few years, and I believe that we need wider solutions. Of course, this situation at the moment is acute. Let us be clear: the SDP parliamentary group does not accept any reduction in working conditions and wages. I mean, nothing at all. [Right:Didn't Paatero accept? — From left: Unacceptable!] Business cannot be built sustainably by lowering wages. Of course, as far as the Post is concerned, the situation has now become worse and very sad, and as many speakers have said, the workers are very tight, but they do not strike small. Cheaping wages would lead many to apply for subsidies in order to cope with everyday expenses, and that cannot be the direction of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u36	Mr President! Perhaps it is too difficult to assess the speed of the work of the working group, which has not yet started, but I believe that when this will state is so strong for the parties that they have wanted to set up this joint working group, and when these people have responded with a very fast timetable ‘yes’ to the work of the invited person,the belief that they too have a strong will to be able to resolve this as quickly as possible. Personally, I wish this were in a few days, but I dare not say any kind of timetable assessment, because it is not up to me to decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u37	Mr President! Citizens and businesses are amazed when letters and goods do not travel, and it seems that these strikes are also expanding to many other areas. At the moment, the Christmas season is approaching, and the fact that this situation cannot be resolved is indeed worrying for the whole of Finnish society — and the only thing you hear in this Chamber is how the representatives of the government parties here are now getting involved in labour market issues and expressing their views,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u44	Mr President! This consideration of the various options, particularly within the current Post, is already under way. We now have this collective debate in which there is this dispute, and a working group of secretaries of states has already begun, which, within the current Post, is considering new possibilities for Posti to operate in the future, and what could be our prospects, what we will see in ten years' time or 20 years' time. This work is done. This option to chop up Posti, which was in this one interview, has been on the table in a public debate. I did not take a position on whether I wanted to do so, but I said that it was one possibility that has been used, for example, in Sweden and Denmark, where this price has been some hundreds of millions,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u45	I will give the questions to Mrs Torniainen and then to the original author of the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u46	Mr President! The situation in the postal sector is indeed unfortunate and very bad; that is something we are all sure to say together. The Centre hopes that the negotiating parties, in particular the negotiating parties, will be able to reach a joint negotiated solution and agreement very quickly. Not only Posti and Posti's employees are affected by the strike and related support measures, above all ordinary Finnish people and business, Finnish companies too. Minister Paatero is in charge of corporate governance and matters relating to the distribution of letters under the universal service obligation of Minister Mari, but, Prime Minister, how would you describe the current situation? How does this situation affect ordinary Finnish citizens who are concerned, and how will the business situation continue in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u47	Mr President! It is quite clear that, if this situation is prolonged, it will seriously affect our economy and this will also affect the everyday lives of ordinary people, and that is why the government has continued to act in this matter with great care and when a situation has come into play in conciliation where measures are needed, the measures have been taken. As Minister Paatero said, four highly experienced labour market experts will come here to help these contracting parties to seek that solution in this situation. And I believe that this group, if anyone, will be able to make an agreement on this dispute as quickly as possible. This is a bad situation for the Finnish economy and people, for ordinary Finns, which should not be affected for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u48	Mr President! This strike is easy for all citizens to understand. This strike is not about wage increases; it is about maintaining the current wage level and the workers and their families being able to support themselves. You will understand which Pandora's box you will open if the state, as the owner, agrees to the massive cuts in the salaries of the Post. A post that can be considered as providing a critical service for the rotation of society. If you accept this, you will be setting an example for all the other large companies that even the half of wages is okay when it is tricked by changing collective agreements. The owner's director, that is, you Green Left National Front government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u54	Mr President! As I recall, twice during this debate, I have already said that, of course, everyone's aim is to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u55	Next question, Mr Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u56	Mr President! Decision-making on complex issues should be done on the basis of estimated information, not by mutating. I hope we can agree on this. In its Government Programme, the government has already given citizens a promise of a knowledge-based policy. You made a commitment — in other words, a commitment — to a knowledge-based policy and a systematic impact assessment in all your preparations. Well, it has turned out this week that according to independent parliamentary information service experts, your budget for next year will reduce employment in Finland by 5,000 persons.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u57	Let's stick to the one-minute limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u64	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to reserve it by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u65	Mr President! It is quite true what the Prime Minister said that I will be surprised if next spring the government's proposal really finally includes the impact assessment of tens of thousands of jobs. But I am very happy to be surprised if that happens. Unfortunately, however, you did not actually answer the question that you do not trust the information examined. You do not trust what economists calculate in the information services, and is this somehow a different level of reliability from those of the ministries, or are you going to make them through the mutating of next spring's decisions? Then I won't be so surprised. However, it is also the case that you are always appealing to this issue of inequality, which is very important, but also look at the calculations made by the information service. There are two ways to reduce inequality in Finland: either we can start by putting our hands up with unemployment and trying to help the most vulnerable people who depend on unemployment. It is always important to have reasonable social security in Finland, and no one is removing it. But another way is to try to eliminate major unemployment. This has been done in Sweden and Denmark, and we want to be part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u67	Mr President! I was very disappointed with the alternative budget for the coalition. It contained significant cuts in the safety of the unemployed. [ Arbitrators from the Group of the European People's Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u68	Mr President! The citizens ask me quite often, at least, why you do not talk about how to get more money there in Parliament, but always talk about who and how much money is given to you. Somehow it comes to the old saying that there is no recipe for success, but there is a desire to please everyone. You have now gone out to please the citizens, and you are distributing helicopter money, which does not exist, to quite reasonable targets. When will you come to the Chamber of this Parliament and present the employment measures that actually buy that money and promote exports and raise GDP? When, Prime Minister, will we have this working party's proposal here in the Chamber for discussion?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u69	Mr President! Employment-related proposals are coming in accordance with the timetable set out in the Government Programme. Next spring, the spending limits debate will cover issues related specifically to local reconciliation and the development of unemployment security, and then in August there will be some 30,000 additional final jobs. That is what the government has promised, and that is what we will do. [Right : That's all? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u73	Mr President! The employment rate is an important indicator, but as the only measure of success it is a little dangerous. At least as important is the question of whether people get along with the pay they receive for the job. One problem is the dumping of wages, as in the Post case. Another problem is the increase in part-time work. If you work a few hours a week, you are employed on paper but a large part of your income is made up of transfers and this is not sustainable for public finances. The concern is that once the government has committed — probably — expenditure increases to an increasing employment rate, the government is tempted to increase the employment rate by giggling, such as promoting cheap labour or wage subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u76	Mr President! I shall correct the first error in that speech immediately. Permanent increases in this government's expenditure are financed by permanent increases in income in the main.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u79	Mr President! In your first reply, you replied to the representative. I am silent on the good question that politics is a choice of values. I ask: is it a value choice, then, that the government does not trust the information examined if the information reveals that government policy leads to job losses? I remember last season, Prime Minister, when we were on the same opposition front, how you often reminded and reproached the then government if they did not trust the information studied.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u83	Mr President! Let us be clear: Government policy is based on researched knowledge. We know that, according to the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance and according to the calculations made by the Parliamentary Information Service, on the basis of the available calculation bases, it seems that EUR 20 per month increases to basic security, basic unemployment security or basic security as a whole, means that 5000 jobs will be lost. But it is a question of the need for this increase in income for the sake of the livelihood and well-being of these people, and that is government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u85	Mr President! It is very important that the debate should remain in this knowledge-based policy that started. Prime Minister, if you were to examine those calculations more closely, you would see that the activities of the shadow budget of the coalition keep the distribution of income in line with your proposals and do not increase the poverty rate. However, I was rather saddened to note in the debate and later in a more general debate even Minister of Education Andersson overlooked how well-educated economists in this house, too, in our own research unit, work through the methods, the best methods that qualified people can do. Minister Andersson, would it actually be appropriate to apologise to the qualified staff of Parliament's information service for such contempt for their work?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u86	Mr President! Politics, as the Prime Minister said, is a choice of values, but it is also a choice of reason. If you look at the employment policy of this government, one of the key elements is that we invest in Finnish education, because it is seen that education and knowledge are the best employment policy that can be done in this country, and I trust that we will have the support of the coalition when we make these contributions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u89	Mr President! It is really important that when such a serious matter is discussed, the assembly — I have learned to appreciate you as truth - do not now practice intellectual lying.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u90	I would remind you that neither individuals nor groups in this Chamber are spoken of under the heading of lying.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u91	Mr President! In this Chamber there are parties with different ideologies and parliamentarians who judge matters from different points of view, and there is clearly a big difference in value, a big difference in ideas between the coalition and the parties that sit here on the side of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u94	Mr President! Policy, and economic policy in particular, really is about value choices. But you do not make the choice of values, but you do make a praising policy for everyone, which will be faced with, for example, the fact that, unfortunately, at the end of Mr Andersson's period, a thousand vocational school teachers will soon receive a letter of agreement, because a one-off effort is not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u97	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen raises an important issue in his question, and of course the government must react, and the government will react. Today, we have given a budget supplement which will transfer 20 million to the Ministry of Education specifically for specific training, so that companies can be trained in the workforce. [SanniGrahn-Laasonen Intermission]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u98	I give the final question to Mr Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u99	Mr President! In particular, when it comes to researched knowledge, the appreciation of researchers and research should be reflected in the words of the Minister for Education. Or is it that the facts are only valid for the information service if they support their own agenda? Prime Minister, you talk a lot about social justice in your own speeches. It is an ice-cold policy to bring into this Chamber a budget proposal that will make 5,000 people unemployed next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u104	Mr President! Mr Grahn-Laasonen, your speech is not true — your speech is not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u107	Next question, Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u108	Mr President! In the week of the rights of the child, we must highlight the shortcomings in child protection. In Finland in 2018, 18544 children were placed outside the home, of which only 689 are placed in family or close families. Children live in foster care, whose contact with parents, grandparents and other close relatives has been either completely interrupted or otherwise severely restricted by the child welfare authority. Let's even talk about lost children. Yesterday, a multiprofessional group of deeply concerned grandparents launched an appeal to carry out a study of the current state of child protection and to remedy the shortcomings in child protection. I would like to ask the minister concerned: will there be an investigation into the current state of child protection and the implementation of children's rights, including the right of access to the family?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u109	Mr President! I myself was aware of this appeal, and I am in favour of the line that we must take a firmer approach to child protection. Is it necessary to find out what's going on or not? If Parliament wants to, this current situation can be clarified, but the fact is that we know where to start. I was on Child Welfare Day talking to the professionals there were 1,200 of them. They were asked as part of today's work, which is the worst problem in child welfare, where to start. They said we need to get the structures and the dimensions fixed. There is a record of the size of the staff in the government programme, and we are seeking to have 30 children per social worker at the end of this term of office and one per 35 children at the mid-term stage. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u110	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u111	Mr President! Yesterday a petition was also sent to ministers from families of ME/CFS patients, children with chronic fatigue syndrome, who had been signed by more than 80 parents or close relatives. Their peer support network has over 100 families. Of these families, a child of four families is urgent and a complete surprise to the family in the last few months. All in all, urgent investments are made in Finland every two hours. Is it really this bad? Is this really the amount of urgent action needed? There is also concern that 90% of child welfare institutions are run by private individuals. According to Yle's research, child welfare has turned into a billion-dollar business. I would like to ask the minister concerned: are these shortcomings in child protection and also the challenges of billions of businesses being tackled?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u112	Mr President! I agree with these points of view, too, as you put it. It's very serious. It's very heavy. At the moment, the working group on foster care is specifically considering what kind of expert advice could be made available in the way in which the Child Welfare Act would be developed, in particular with regard to demanding foster care, and these examples, which you mentioned here, are particularly relevant to demanding foster care. I am also concerned that, in child welfare, the interests of children are probably no longer very good, because we are in a situation where only one-fifth of this important work in public hands is beginning to take place. It has to be said that it has become clear in some places that the threat of fundamental rights has been jeopardised by the fact that these harshest examples in this area have also been made public. In practice, this means that we must also be able to discuss whether child welfare is a matter for children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u113	Mr President! I am very concerned about the way our society intervenes in our most important institution, the family, in a situation where the family has experienced illness and great misfortune. I am talking here in particular about patients with ME/CFS who are a typical example of discrimination, aggression and helplessness in health care against a sick person. At least three people have been placed in Finland as a matter of urgency and at least two ME patients have been taken into care. How does the government intend to tackle discrimination and aggression against ME patients? And I don't want to hear anything from you about operational interference. This model has only increased stigma and mistreatment in these patients.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u114	Mr President! Yes, this and many other examples that exist in demanding foster care and also in family care indicate that we have to evaluate the whole structure we call child welfare at the moment. We have a wide range of examples where we also find that the monitoring of foster care and the hearings of children and young people have not been taken seriously. Mistakes must be addressed and the law must be observed. In this respect, there are examples that in some places these important issues have not been successful. As I said, in the case of demanding care, we need to do better. I am not going to take a stand here on the individual measures that need to be taken, but there is now an improvement in post-care in Parliament for children and young people. It's one step.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u115	Mr President! There are very many grandparents in Finland who have been alienated from their grandchild. We too are very often contacted by grandparents who have been alienated for some reason, very often unjustly, in a divorce or other dispute. Last season there was a hard debate about this, and it was the coalition and then Justice Minister Häkkänen who wanted this to be taken forward, i.e. that alienation would not take place in a situation where it is possible to organise a relationship and a child needs his grandparents. Now I ask Minister Henriksson: are you willing to continue this matter and also to move it forward, because many grandparents are really sad?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u116	Just as Mr Risikko has pointed out, this is an extremely important issue. Many grandparents are concerned and sad not to meet their grandchildren. We certainly have a lot of information about this in this Chamber. That is why all the work that has been done together to improve this situation is good work, and that is what I want to continue. There is always an extremely important aspect of this legislation that the child's own interests must always be a priority and that is also the starting point in the current legislation. It is certainly the case that we need to look at this further, and there are certainly some steps in the right direction during the previous term of government, and I am sure that we will return to this important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u117	Next question, Congressman Berg.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u118	Mr President! Last spring, Finland as a whole was shocked by the serious shortcomings in housing services for the elderly. However, the problem is not limited to housing services for the elderly, but also to mental health rehabilitation services. In recent years, big health giants have taken over the market. They already hold about 40 per cent of the units and more than half of the customer seats. We're having Mental Health Week this week. When a person’s mind is shaken, it is a huge tragedy, and sometimes it is impossible to survive at home. Mr President! Housing services for mental health rehabilitation workers are in crisis. The living of these people in need of help is, at its worst, conservation. The Government has committed itself to remedy the shortcomings of the Procurement Act so that qualitative criteria are better taken into account in public tenders. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: How can we ensure that profits are not put above quality? How for Mentally Rehabilitated
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u119	Mr President! I answer in two parts: Firstly, the specific question at the end of the question of how to guarantee a good life: It must be said that there are serious shortcomings at the moment and this does not always happen. This is only because mental health rehabilitation should also have the same opportunity to bring home services, and in this respect this institutional focus, which can be seen in housing services, is not the path for all countries. We should also be able to have a debate on this. When it comes to service housing, it should also be noted here that the market is concentrated and profits are in some places such that there is nothing like this in everyday life. It must therefore be said that, here too, it would be appropriate to constrain profit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u122	Next question, Congressman Column.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u123	Mr President! According to the future of rural areas, the Ely Centre of Uusimaa has banned fellings according to the forest use declaration as a basis for the preparation of the regional plan. The concept of nature protection labelling has been considered in these areas. Based on the preliminary plans of the county plan, the Ely Centre has completely ignored the protection of assets. There has also been a public debate on the expropriation procedures of municipalities, where municipalities redeem private countries at abusive prices. Similar messages about municipal procedures are coming from all over Finland, and increasingly in connection with the redemption of electricity lines. In the event of redemption, compensation for landowners must be increased drastically in order to provide a fairer basis for action. The Centre considers that the redemption law must be renewed in order to improve the property protection of the landowner. I would like to ask Minister Henriksson: what is the situation with the reform of the redemption law included in the Government Programme so that the kind of socialisation of the Vantaa family state would not happen again?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u127	The following questions will be addressed to Mr Koponen and Mr Strand. — — — — Congressman Koponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u128	Mr President! The female euro is still 84 cents. Women spend more than 95% of parental leave. Women's pensions are on average one fifth lower than men's. When a middle-income woman spends three years with a child with home care support, her future pension will be reduced by EUR 50 per month. These figures do not reflect an equal welfare society. However, these figures are a reality right now. The Family Barometer of the Family Federation shows that economic uncertainty and reconciliation of family and work are important reasons why children are not provided. This government is committed to carrying out a family leave reform in which the labour market position of a woman is strengthened and care responsibilities are shared equally among both parents in families. In accordance with the Government Programme, Finland aims to become the leading country in equality. I would like to ask you, Mr Pekonen: how does the government intend to promote equality in the context of the reform of family leave?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u129	Mr President! Representative Noora Koponen made a good point here that family leave is certainly not divided evenly in families at the moment. Our aim is an ambitious reform which specifically increases equality in families, but also in working life, so that we can catch up in the future with this wage development, which Mr Koponen also highlighted. The reform of family leave is still in preparation, and I hope that we can make rapid progress in the government so that I can present it to everyone here. It is clear that we need to make quotas for family leave reform, periods where both fathers and mothers take more responsibility for their family leave. Just last week. Kela published a study according to which the number of fathers receiving parental allowance decreased compared to the previous years. That is why I think it is very important,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u130	Next question, Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u131	Mr President, ärade talman! Det är åter dags för det årliga Slush-evenemanget, som är en högklassig ötesplats för tillväxtföretag och investorare. Att hit kommer investerare från hela världen för att träffa entreprenörer och företag talar sitt tydliga språk om det kunnande och framför allt den potential som finns ox.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u132	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Strand for a very important and timely question. Indeed, the fact that tens of thousands of entrepreneurs and potential financiers are gathering today for the Slush event, where I was also allowed to visit today, tells us about the great undertone that has been in Finland when the event that took off by volunteers has spread internationally. It is, of course, terribly important for entrepreneurs and businesses to know that the investment environment is attractive and even, so that the taxation of entrepreneurs and businesses is not tightened. At the turn of next year, an entrepreneurial strategy is being brought to the Board of Directors. And if you look at the financial instruments that the public authorities can offer, Tesi, the Growth Fund, European instruments, for example, the key is that they can be used. Of course, investment in research, development and innovation will be made at home: EUR 50 million more will be allocated to next year's budget for this purpose, and the objective is that, by the end of the 30s, 4% will be the whole of our RD expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u133	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 1.5 hours will be reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u134	Mr President! This week it was reported that suicides of Finnish young people do not decrease at the same rate as those of middle-aged Finns. It tells us that we have a large number of young people in Finland who are getting worse and worse. Last spring I met a young person who told me that she was depressed and got into suicidal thoughts. The reason was that he had long been helping and listening to friends who were sick and could no longer carry their load. When the truth was true, his leading father dropped out of work and left his place of work to rush toward the reception.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u137	I'll give you another floor when you ask for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u138	Mr President! The citizens' initiative on a therapeutic guarantee raises an important and topical theme for discussion. It is also similar to the long-term policies of the Left Alliance. I would also like to thank Minister Kiuru for coming out on this issue during Question Time in October and in the official press releases. We in the Left Alliance are also in favour of the spirit of the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative. The mental health problems of young people and even children have grown alarmingly in recent years. Lines for child and youth psychiatry, rehabilitation-psychotherapy for young people and adults supported by Kela, and special medical care are alarming. We need new solutions, a low-threshold rapid response force, to prevent problems from growing. The low-threshold free short-term therapy interventions proposed by the initiative in primary health care would be a necessary supplement to the treatment of mild mood symptoms and would reduce the burden of special care. The current system is built on the limited resources of diagnosis, referrals and special care. Too often, on the basis of the messages of the public, treatment is merely the distribution of antidepressants without discussion support. This trend is not good mental health care in the Nordic welfare state known for its quality of health care. The Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative is a step in the right direction, an important opening for the development of mental health services. The methods and details of implementation must probably be further refined, but the objective is the right one. The challenges of parenthood, financial concerns, reconciliation of family and work, the strain of work, the hardening of the attitude of society and the variety of life situations, family, dating or friendships, the problems and concerns associated with the joints and accidents of education and working life do not necessarily fill the diagnosis of mental disorders, but may significantly harm people's everyday lives. Early access to free chat support and, where necessary, guidance for other services could help solve many problems more easily. As they pile up and prolong themselves, there are great mountains and, at worst, crippling challenges affecting all day-to-day functional capacity, which are resolved at the extremes of heavy special care, social work, child protection, service housing, debt counselling, substance abuse rehabilitation and even the criminal court’s service menus, not to mention lost years of work and human tragedies. Human encounters, the good words of another person, caring, walking alongside and being confronted are the key. The Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative could play an important role in the construction of a more humane and responsive healthcare system and Finland. The Therapy Guarantee Initiative has left-wing support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u141	Mr President! The Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative is a strong message for us decision-makers. It is a distress cry from those who know all too well, far too close, how difficult and hard it can be to get help for mental disorders. Too many people have experience of not being able to get help enough or early enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u144	We will start the debate after these contributions have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u145	Mr President! Yesterday was the day of children's rights. Today we are dealing with the citizens' initiative on the therapeutic guarantee. Article 24 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states that the child is entitled to care if necessary. It is unfortunate to note that this obvious right of a child in Finland does not apply to mental health services in all children. Today we have the opportunity to improve this gap with the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative, which reached more than 52,000 signatures. According to the survey respondents, the difficulty of access to services in 2018 in the Child Welfare Survey of the Association of Finnish Local Government is widely reflected in the services required by children, especially in the mental health services of children. A total of 13 per cent estimated that mental health services for children are mostly not available to children altogether, and 49 per cent of respondents estimate that the required service is available but the process is difficult and time-consuming. An early focus on access to mental health services and on the functioning of care chains could probably avoid many child custody. The difficulties of access to care burden the whole family and can drive the whole family into an imbalance. About one third of child welfare organisations estimate that they invest children in investments outside the home often because the child’s mental health services have not been organised for some reason. Less than half of Finns live in municipalities where this happens. This is an alarming message that should awaken all decision-makers and all social welfare and health services through Finland. Will it be in the best interests of the child if there is no access to treatment, the system is too complex and the family does not receive sufficient support? Are children being treated in Finland because of problems with access to care? Will suicides be committed in Finland because of the failure of the care system when people do not get help in time or when it is not professional and competent? Yes, I'm afraid that's the case. I find it shameful that this is the case in Finland, where we regard ourselves as a high-quality Western country of medicine. There should always be other reasons for separating children from their parents than the failure of the service system. The seven-day primary health care guarantee that the current government is running is good for you, but it will not help a person with mental health problems if the right kind of treatment does not begin quickly enough and access to the treatment itself will be easier. I even see the risk that all drinks will be put into the implementation of a seven-day treatment guarantee and contact with a health centre, but the treatment itself will not start or progress. It is not enough for a child or young person or adult to be in a queue waiting to be admitted to another place; help must be provided on a low threshold and, in the case of a child or young person, in a natural environment. This means that mental health services must be taken to where children and young people are, i.e. schools and student health care. Mental health problems are also among the main causes of exclusion. Addressing mental disorders as early as possible will help to reduce the worsening of the situation and prevent the spiral of exclusion. Mr President! The Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative proposes a legislative amendment to ensure rapid access to therapeutic psychotherapy or other psychosocial care for all regardless of age. The amendment proposed by the citizens' initiative would build the basic level of effective mental health care in Finland. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health’s Service Selection Council, PALKO, has stated that effective psychotherapies based on research evidence are also offered in public health care. The addition of funding for the therapy guarantee to the budget is justified by the guidelines of this Council, which is under the authority of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Timely mental health services must be available on an equal basis for everyone who needs them. The Group's own alternative budget includes a therapeutic guarantee of EUR 35 million. The Therapy Guarantee would strengthen the basic level of mental health care and the equality of access to treatment throughout Finland: “The basic health care includes appropriate psychotherapy and muxychosocial care for mental health disorders.” I warmly support the citizens' initiative on the therapeutic guarantee. Hopefully, the government will also see the importance of this and ensure that it is adequately funded. A therapeutic guarantee could be launched, for example, by piloting from Uusimaa, which would provide information on the models and effects of its practical implementation. Uusimaa would be ready for a rather rapid start-up. These experiences could then be used to extend it to the whole of Finland. We don't have time to waste. We cannot wait for the model or other administrative solutions for the organisation of the war. I know that the mental health strategy is already under preparation, with statements, and this is a good continuation of it. Each day is painfully long for someone in or outside the queue. It has also been suggested, on behalf of the government, that there is support for this citizens' initiative. I hope that this will also be reflected in funding and that this important initiative will also work in practice. Now it's time to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u146	Now the response button has been opened. I would ask those representatives who wish to participate in the debate to press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u147	Mr President! For once, we have a citizens' initiative here that comes in real need. I would therefore like to thank the mental health organisations that have brought this to our attention. Those who suffer from mental health problems are not the people who usually come to the market to talk to us politicians, and that is why, unfortunately, we are still in too bad shape. Mr President! Mr Kiuru, here is something that could be corrected in an hour. There are therapists available in our country, and the only thing missing is the resources to be made available for this, that is, the money. This citizens' initiative has calculated that it would cost EUR 35 million to implement it. However, I do not believe that you in your government's budget have provided resources for next year. Are you really going to support this citizens' initiative when so many representatives of the government parties spoke so beautifully about it here? We all know how much this money would need, and it would also have positive effects on employment when people would no longer suffer alone at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u148	Mr President! First of all, it is a great thing that this has come into this Chamber, and this is an extremely important issue. I am sure that there is a great deal of cross-party interest here in promoting this. I have personally been very pleased with the way in which the minister has now started to prepare things: this mental health strategy and ideas on how, for example, to integrate this issue into young people, children, schools and basic health care, etc. I would like you, Minister, to be able to open some of these guidelines here. And I would like to point out once again that this is a large state of common will. I also have friends, and I'm sure all of us, many who feel that they're not being picked up when they don't get these services and stuff, and I don't think that this is something that can be solved just by clicking their fingers. There are so many problems. Surely all of us and the entire government are committed to finding solutions and raising these issues and improving the quality of mental health services in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u149	Mr President! Thank you for this initiative. This is much, much more than just access to therapy. It's a social emergency. Every one of us, as we have already seen today, is close to those who have experienced the tragedies of their lifetime, or even we ourselves are, and we are all talking about the importance of the therapeutic guarantee, preventive services and right actions. However, we are trying to correct these matters far too late. We're putting out those fires. This initiative is, in fact, an indication that a terrible amount has gone too far. Empathy is not enough. We need more action from the sitting government and from all of us. The big thing would be that we would shift the focus to the very beginning. From the very beginning, families must be saved vigorously and professionally, or these tragedies will never be reduced. I believe that we all have the same objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u150	Mr President! I too would like to thank you for this initiative. I think in that way that it is good to seek a common view across the party boundaries on this issue as a whole and to avoid any political abuse on this issue. This is so important, the objectives of providing assistance and support in mental health services at the earliest possible stage on the basic health care side. I also looked quite closely at these backgrounds, which are relevant to this, and I noticed that there were also assessments of common goals in terms of the government's management guarantee and the future social welfare centre programme. When this is coming to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I am quite sure that we will also be wondering there whether these issues could be combined, at the same time, both this citizens' initiative and the care guarantee. In fact, when there is a minister here, I would also like the Minister to perhaps tell us about the timetable for the treatment guarantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u151	Mr President! First, warm thanks to those who make the initiative. Thanks to you, mental health and mental health services have, for the first time in history, risen to the top of the political agenda. For many, it is common to have no help. When the leg breaks down, help is provided in Finland, but when the mind breaks, many are left alone without any help and support. Before the elections, all parties except the Finns Party supported the therapeutic guarantee. This initiative is well prepared and well-founded, and I hope that this initiative will be dealt with quickly by Parliament and will be decided before Christmas. This is EUR 35 million. The Coalition Party has included it in its alternative budget. We are prepared to take this forward. I would ask Minister Kiuru: if, as it seems, Parliament, in cooperation, gives full support to this initiative, will you be prepared to start preparing if the Parliament so decides and find the EUR 35 million in the state budget;
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u152	I would like to express my warm thanks to the authors and signatories of the initiative. However, I would like to say that we have many other very good citizens' initiatives than this one. This is certainly one of the most missed, but indeed many good initiatives have been taken. It is very important, as this initiative points out, that we receive more low-threshold services, especially for mental health, which often means, for example, psychotherapy, which may have helped many people more than our traditional methods and medical methods alone, which, however, have often highlighted the importance of medication rather than psychotherapy. I hope that this initiative will move forward fast, and it is great that the government is also committed to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u153	Mr President! I was sorry to hear Mr Sarkomaa’s speech — the game is getting tougher. True Finns believe that funding is needed to provide a therapeutic guarantee, for example. We've got to keep the funding in order to get a therapeutic guarantee. This has been the concern the Finns have borne, that if a therapeutic guarantee comes, the resource will also be allocated to it, and it will not remain just a dream in the air. This is what worries me. Mr President! I would like to ask you, Minister — and I am pleased that you are here — about this care guarantee: The most important thing is that when a person feels he needs help, has access to a doctor, and goes to a health center, he can get there. Why is it so often said that there is no access to the health centre, that you do not get there to tell about your problems, that is, you are immediately knocked out at that door? If a person falls and says his leg is sick, he will be received when it is estimated that his ankle may be broken,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u154	The Minister may speak later.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u155	Mr President! Once again, the citizens' initiative has shown its value and importance. It is a channel for people, for Finns to bring big, important things to this debate. Sometimes they divide Parliament, but this time there is a citizens' initiative that unites Parliament. Here we have heard how touching and close and important this is for many, many of us, how many of us have experienced this and know this need. We must ensure that there is a low level of mental health services, that as many people as possible get help as quickly as possible so that they do not even have to go so far as to have to seek further medical treatment. But the people who need it must get it as quickly as possible. I therefore hope that, in a good spirit of cooperation from left to right, now that all the parties are behind this, we can take this forward and find a solution that will enable us to improve our mental health services as quickly and as comprehensively as possible, and thank you very much to those who initiated this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u156	Mr President! Thank you for an important citizens' initiative. Personally, I am concerned about the huge increase in mental health problems among young people. Depending on the calculation, between 20% and 25% of young people suffer from these problems. In particular, the number of young people in special care has increased enormously, and this is very worrying. I therefore hope that these efforts will be concentrated on early services and basic health care, and I am pleased that the government will tighten up the provision of care in primary health care. Man is a mental, physical and social entity — we can look only at mental or social or physical. So this is the way to get help there early. Representative Multala wished for the government to act, but four years have been available for young people as well. This isn't a new thing. I hope that together now we will see the importance of this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u157	Mr President, värderade talman! Vi vet alla att ju tidigare man får vård, desto större är vöjligheterna till snabbare tilfrisknande, mindre mänskligt lidande och inbesparade kostnader för samhället. För personer som lider av mentala problem är det extra viktigt att tröskeln att be om hjälp är så låg som vöjligt. Framför allt för unga personaler måste kontakten vara lätt att göra. Här är oika 24/7-tjänster och chattar speciellt viktiga.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u158	Mr President! You can say that the nausea of the mind is a veritable form of folklore. At some point in one’s life, every other person suffers from mental disorders of varying degrees, and it brings much suffering and even costs, considering that we have mental health problems as the main cause group of disability pensions. It is very good that the citizens' initiative is concerned with this — thanks to all the signatories and to the fact that it has been launched by the stingers. Let me just say that this would be quite quick to correct if we wanted to. This is where Mr Vehviläinen, the chairman of the committee, has already suggested that it should be linked to this tightening of the treatment guarantee. That is a very good thing. The Minister has also mentioned this. It's great to be caught up in this, and this, if anything, could be dealt with quickly. There was also the fact that nothing has been done in the last period — quite the opposite. We were in the process of creating a free choice centre system where this would have been handled, but it did not work out for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u159	Mr President! Mental health care is currently in quite a crisis situation, as this House knows very well, and although this citizens' initiative is, in this sense, to be welcomed, such a point-by-point correction may not be the most sensible at this point. In this regard, I would like to ask, when the Minister is here, whether you could tell us what plans the government has for correcting this whole system, because now there is also a problem of access to treatment and then therapy in addition to it. Now, in my own speech, I am going to raise the problems that exist in this citizens' initiative, but I would like to make a point here about the overall reform and the resolution of the situation as a whole and about how to correct it, which is not the case with sexual crime legislation, that is to say, that there are some points that are being corrected by the point, but that it is still failing in the scope. So this is what I would ask Minister Kiuru when you are here: what are you going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u160	I would like to give the floor to Mr Mattila, Mr Hyrkko and Mr Zyskowicz. Then the Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u161	Mr President! During the previous government, the Lappe programme, which was continued by the current government, was launched with the aim of improving the availability of services needed by children, young people and families with children. Low-threshold mental health and substance abuse services are also part of this Lappe programme. As noted by the signatories to the Therapy Guarantee Initiative, early intervention and support will reduce future risks and contribute to recovery. A key element would be to integrate the work of various bodies to support the good everyday life of children, young people and families. Fine pursuits have been found to have a positive effect on mental health. They build healthy self - esteem and trust in their own abilities. Hobbies bring together people of the same mind and create important social contacts. Good hobbies also support other learning positively. The Government’s objective to enable one hobby for each child and young person is therefore, to the greatest extent, preventive mental health and social exclusion work. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u162	Mr President! This initiative and, in fact, its entire journey to this Parliament is so important that it is almost difficult to put it into words. Mental health continues to be infuriated by prejudice and shame, and this citizens' initiative and the campaign around it have brought mental disorders and the need for timely low-threshold care to the heart of social debate. It has also made visible the glaring holes in the mental health services of our welfare state and increased people's awareness and understanding of mental well-being and mental ill health. That's the most important thing to thank you for. Yes, we need a new direction in solving and preventing mental health problems. For example, in my hometown of Espoo, we have had very encouraging results on mental health skills to be taken to educational institutions. When that short therapy type support is available in the school community on a low threshold, people can be helped in time. This is the type of activity we need everywhere in Finland. Fortunately, the government has committed itself to and addressed many of the problems of mental health services,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u163	Mr President! Many Members of Parliament have spoken warmly in favour of this initiative. There are also a large number of representatives of the government parties. I do not doubt the sincerity of the MPs of the government parties when they consider it important and want to promote this important issue, but when they say that they praise the government, then, my friends, there is no basis for it. Minister Kiuru 12. On 1 September, here in Parliament's Question Time, the Government promised that it would support this Therapy Guarantee Initiative. The government's budget proposal does not contain a cent of this. Perhaps it is difficult for you new MPs there to understand, but when you are in government, then there is power, but there is also responsibility. You have a responsibility to take care of this. It can't just be done with positive speeches. The Coalition Party has presented EUR 35 million in its shadow budget for this, as proposed in the Citizens' Initiative. I hope that in the autumn, here in Parliament, you will see to it that this matter is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u164	Secretary Kiuru, three minutes. After that, we'll continue the debut for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u165	Mr President! First of all, one and a half percent of Finns fall ill every year with some mental disorder. At least one in ten or even one in five Finns experience a serious period of depression during their lives. I'm sure it'll draw us quiet here. And according to some studies, not even one in five, but as many as 20 to 25 percent of young people suffer from some mental disorder.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u168	President! Here we heard that praise for the government would somehow be unfounded. I have been an entrepreneur in the field of therapy, and I have to tell them in the opposition that people have had these mental problems before. They have not evolved while this government is in force. This government is finally going to intervene in these matters. This should have been done much more ambitiously, much earlier. This government is going to improve people's well-being comprehensively, understanding that investments in well-being at work, child and family services, the development of maternity clinics, the promotion of the family centre model, the eradication of poverty or education are also mental health work. The fact that we contribute to the mental health of people also comes in these many actions, to which the government is committed and to which we government parties have committed themselves. And yes, we new parliamentarians in the Greens will also see to it that mental health services are truly reformed so that everyone gets help when they need it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u169	Mr President! I would like to thank all the signatories to this citizens' initiative to speed up access to mental health services for this therapeutic guarantee. This is a very important issue for society and it is good that it emerges from this citizens' initiative. The growth of mental health problems has been far too rapid. Unfortunately, health care resources have not kept up, and access to treatment has been severely congested. The sufferers have been young people in particular. Mr President! All too often, as has already been pointed out in this debate, mental health problems are treated only with medicines, even if the most important thing for a depressed person is human contact, access to treatment, dialogue. Treatment should be achieved much faster. There are shortcomings in both primary and specialised health care, but the basic level in particular needs additional resources. Regional differences in access to services are also very large.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u170	Mr President! Thank you to the authors and signatories of an important initiative, and also to Minister Kiuru for his good answer, which opened up the way in which the government is now going to act on this issue. Yes, when it comes to mental health services, we simply have to have a society where help is quickly received and help is readily available. It is clear that, at the moment, access to care and equality in mental health needs to be improved. I would particularly like to emphasise the importance of this issue from the point of view of young people. Investing in low-threshold services would be precisely the right way to provide preventive support for young people. I remember how, in our Left Left Youths, we had a mental health campaign called Care Needed, where these same things were being driven. The low threshold mental health service system is cost-effective and pays itself back many times more. In addition to that, it is also humanly right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u171	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Kiuru for his speech, and I would like to say that I too consider this initiative to be a great value in bringing this to a broad debate both here in the house and in public and also to act as a positive whip for the government in this regard, that this is the direction in which the future centre of social services and the care guarantee are being taken. At least that's what I'm thinking. Indeed, when I already pointed out that I looked at such a therapy guarantee implementation plan, how it can be connected to the future social centre, I found a lot of similarities here. When this comes to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and we take it up there and study it together with representatives of both the opposition and the government parties, I am quite sure that we will find the right and good bridge, how this can be resolved, as long as we also get the government's proposal for a care guarantee at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u172	Mr President! The Therapy Guarantee Initiative needs to be supported. In fact, it is a necessary initiative to help children and young people. In addition to special medical care, we need to take care of psychiatric competence and services in primary health care. Schools need more people specialised in psychiatric care. Many municipalities have already employed psychiatric nurses in schools, and they have produced good results. Minister! When the therapy guarantee is implemented, care must be taken to ensure that service providers meet the criteria for skilled and professional work. The public sector must have a comprehensive responsibility for services. Care must be taken to ensure that the therapeutic guarantee does not pave the way for profit at the expense of care — an experience we have in the care of the elderly. I think that medical treatment has great potential and its place in treatment, but I strongly believe in the power of conversation and speech in psychiatric nursing. I support this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u173	Mr President! A particular concern and concern lies in the message that comes to us as parliamentarians now that the mental health problems of young people, in particular, are almost exponentially increasing. There may also be a small, bright side to it, that the mind’s problems are dared to be spoken of and that treatment is more dared to seek today. I believe that, for example, openings such as this citizens' initiative have had such a positive effect that we have the courage to discuss matters. When you think about our responsibility here as decision-makers to promote these issues and ensure access to care, so that every person who asks for help genuinely gets help in the problems of his mind, then the most important question today is whether we support this citizens' initiative. In other words, will we continue to promote it here in Parliament during this autumn and will we accept it in this Chamber? I would like to ask the government parties: how are you going to behave in this vote? Do you accept this? There is no funding for next year's budget in the government budget, but as an alternative to the Coalition Party, we have reserved:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u174	I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Forsgré and Koskela. Then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u175	Mr President! This is a very serious situation. As a student, I can tell you that I have seen a lot of nausea and depression around me. Many have already been in such a bad situation that they have been helped during their studies. I would therefore like to thank the Therapy Guarantee for raising a very important issue. This is a very serious situation, and all of us politicians must take this message seriously. Above all, we must ensure the right kind of help, not only that we here are well discussing an important issue. The situation cannot be that people end up on disability pensions at an ever younger age just because there is no timely help available. I would therefore like to add my voice to the points raised here in the debate. Mr Vehviläinen's wish to take this initiative into account in the context of the treatment guarantee was a very welcome idea, and I would also like to thank Minister Kiuru for a very good response. I would therefore like to stress that the government is taking very serious account of:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u177	Mr President! We're on an important issue today. Indeed, if, according to the OECD report, we spend 11 billion on the cost of mental disorders in Finland, this is indeed a big question. It has been rewarding to listen here for the first time. Thank God there's Minister Kiuru here now. You have just referred to the fact that funding has been allocated to these services. You have provided funding for the development of a mental health strategy and the state contributions to basic services, but you have not specifically directed it towards this issue, namely the therapeutic guarantee. I'm sure it's worth a lot of your time. Next, there are already a lot of experts in this country who are not psychotherapists but are in the third sector and I claim that even in church service. I wonder whether these know-hows have been coordinated and thought about, that they could in some way be brought together in public, together and in this way
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u178	Mr President! Yesterday was the day of children's rights, and the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has called on Finland to strengthen mental health services for children and to guarantee access to the necessary studies and treatments and to step up efforts to prevent suicides among young people — a serious issue, and this observation has not been made in an instant, so Parliament is all in the same boat that we need to do better now. That is why I personally support this initiative, [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude] This means that a strategy must first be drawn up. There are many shortcomings in this country, as was stated, and just one record of the law that the same treatment guarantee applies to mental health as in other cremates... In this respect it will come, but the question is how this whole picture will be viewed in the future so that these services will work. We have one in ten young people, hello, at worst in special care. If this isn't a serious parliament, then what is it? The basic health care system lacks genuine care chains. They must be created, and a great deal of work must be done to get this whole thing right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u181	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u182	Mr President! It is really great to hear that the government really does seem to have plans, that we are genuinely moving forward in realising this therapeutic guarantee. Although I very much welcome Mr Vehviläinen's idea that this should be dealt with in the same context as the treatment guarantee, it should be noted that this is, however, a reference to the availability of an entire therapeutic period, that is to say, it is essential that the management of the care guarantee does not yet answer the question of this citizens' initiative, that it should be given treatment and, as it were, short-term therapy, where it is precisely the idea that early mental health problems can be tackled effectively so that they do not get worse. We all know, as has been said in this Chamber today, that mental health problems are too common. However, it may be that gradually the stigmas associated with them begin to fade away and are dared to talk about them and to seek treatment. Many also know, with a very personal experience of loved ones, that at worst mental problems can lead to the end of life. I'm sure we all know someone or know someone whose life has ended far too soon. I know a lot of people. There's someone's father, son, daughter. All these cases would certainly have been saved if mental health problems had been braved at an early stage to seek and get help. While waiting for access to services, problems have often become more serious. Delays in access to treatment cause many kinds of human suffering in the life of a sick person. Mental health problems often touch and burden not only the person who is sick but also his or her loved ones. When a loved one gets sick, a lot of people's lives change. Mr President! Mental health problems are the most common cause of disability and often also cause of exclusion. The other year I visited this kind of workshop class, which is intended for students who are challenging to complete comprehensive school. It is as if the children and young people who have already left school have been handpicked and are best tried to help by professionals, and there are also mental health professionals present. When discussing it, it became very clear that girls and boys are the most common cause of mental health problems, either for themselves or for parents at home, and that is why this issue is extremely important. By addressing mental disorders as early as possible, the situation is prevented from getting worse, exclusion is prevented and absenteeism is reduced. I regret, however, that we have not yet received an answer as to how this will be done or whether it will be done, but I hope that the government will at least take this problem very seriously, and I look forward with great interest to getting to grips with the mental health strategy, in which I understood that resources have also been earmarked for improving mental health services. The Coalition Party believes that mental health problems are very serious and need to be found in concrete ways, and that is why we proposed EUR 35 million in our own alternative budget to implement the therapeutic guarantee for mental health services. Mr President! The therapeutic guarantee would specifically strengthen the basic level of mental health care. The need for treatment should be evaluated immediately when seeking help and treatment initiated within one month. The Therapy Guarantee would implement the objective of equality in health policy and ensure that people with mental health problems and their relatives are not left alone. The Therapy Guarantee could prevent the transfer of mental health problems from one generation to the next. Improving access to mental health services is particularly beneficial for those with the least capacity to seek or demand help. Mr President! Contributions to mental health services cost themselves many times as much. More and more people would receive early help, absenteeism would be reduced, the need for expensive special care would be reduced, and human suffering would be reduced. We can implement this therapeutic guarantee. There's a chance if that's the way we want to choose. To conclude, although it will always take time for Parliament to deal with matters, and even in this situation, if the initiative is combined with the government proposal, it is necessary to bring about major changes by Parliament immediately, the municipalities can nevertheless act more quickly and improve the services of the low threshold of mental health. Some examples of my own hometown of Vantaa: We have just increased resources for implementing a short term therapy guarantee for young people in connection with the budget process, and we have also increased resources for this kind of discussion tree with a psychiatrist, which can be reached in practice without an appointment. In addition, we have added special youth workers to vocational institutions so that there will be an adult there with whom young people can speak if they wish. Often the courage to raise matters is already a good step in the right direction, and the adult can then, if he wishes, and when he sees the challenge of moving forward to the services. Let's do everything we can where we can. Of course, here in Parliament, it is our duty to provide the resources to implement the therapeutic guarantee and that it will also become binding legislation for municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u183	Madam President! Good mental health belongs to everyone, and I am happy to welcome the citizens' initiative. I'm glad it got the necessary signatures. Thank you very much to all actors, because without them, mental health services would not have risen to the top agenda in this way. I would like to say that I hope that this will not be linked to the reform of social welfare and health care. We do not know how this is going to happen — so many times it has not been done — and I hope that the therapeutic guarantee will now be taken forward as it stands. I hope that the Minister here will clarify the way in which this is to be taken forward, because it was not quite clear. We do not yet know when a treatment guarantee, when a law with tighter, faster, faster access times, will come here. There's no funding for that yet. After all, the 70 million is for development projects and not actually for hiring staff. I hope that further clarification will come to this, because everyone is positive that the government has now promised to implement this therapeutic guarantee, even though it is not unfortunately in the government programme. But perhaps, Minister, you referred to an additional protocol when you said that the government negotiations, when the government was formed, welcomed this therapeutic guarantee. Perhaps this could be clarified, because it was still unclear to us less experienced parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Indeed, this initiative is welcome. Indeed, the content of the Therapy Guarantee Initiative would guarantee assistance, especially for those who often have the least capacity to demand or seek assistance. We know that mental health problems are one of the main causes of exclusion, and this guarantee would ensure that these often most vulnerable people receive help and support. As I said there, when the mind breaks, so often there is no help and support, and then when there is something else, even if the leg breaks, you get the cast from Finland. So our health care system works, but mental health services have been sidelined, and now we have to take this up. The sad thing is that when there are not enough basic mental health services in primary health care, a lot of people are forced to seek help from the private sector, to buy private services. Not everyone can afford this, so at the moment the thickness of the bag determines whether or not to get help. A therapeutic guarantee is needed to allow access to treatment for all regardless of the financial situation. That is why I think it is important that we take a decision on the Therapy Guarantee initiative before Christmas. If the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, chaired by its excellent chairman, had time to deal with this matter, listen to experts and make a decision, it would be wonderful for Parliament to agree unanimously before Christmas, and then the Minister would be able to take this matter forward. It's great that there's money on the table, too. Then we would still have the opportunity to bring the legislation on the therapeutic guarantee to the whole of Parliament next year. Indeed, our parliamentary group has taken a joint budget initiative in which we propose EUR 35 million of permanent funding for the implementation of the therapeutic guarantee. The same proposal is also included in our alternative budget, and we have shown in it that it is possible to find that money directly in this therapeutic guarantee — it is not thought to be mined from the money earmarked for social reform, which is indeed a very small sum if we consider the need for such a major reform. I had the pleasure of speaking at the Science Corner of the University of Helsinki last February when the launch of the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative campaign took place. It was a pleasure to be there — Alvina Alametsä, Pia Hytönen, Mental Health Pool, many of the active people were there, and May Aalto was green with me talking there. In my speech, I myself raised the concern that, despite the growing mental health problems, a smaller share of municipal funding goes to mental health services. That is what we know. This is a study done in Jyväskylä. And this, if anyone, now obliges the government to act promptly. If you think that in 2000 mental health services accounted for 5.5% of municipal expenditure, but in 2015 it was already closer to 4%, this shows that municipalities do not allocate enough money to these services. We do not have enough basic mental health services in the health centres there, and there is no access to treatment and the delays in the services are really great. It is quite clear that research knowledge, everyday experience, the messages we receive, and as a point on i, this initiative shows that a therapeutic guarantee is needed. Mr President! Young and young adults have been raised here. We know from research that youth is a typical age for the onset of mental disorders. It is estimated that three out of four life-time mental disorders will begin before the age of 25, and action is therefore needed to help young people. But we need a mental health guarantee for people of all ages. We can't forget the elderly here. Good health for children and young people is very important for their own lives and for the future of Finland as a whole, and I believe that the therapeutic guarantee is welcome for high school students and students in vocational education — we have talked a lot about their coping problems — and for university students. That is why, when the minister is present, I am presenting a major report on the future of the Student Health Foundation. The therapy guarantee reform would also apply to all university students. The previous government made a magnificent decision, which was a long-term goal, a long-term goal for the coalition, a long-term objective for student organisations, a decision to apply the Student Health Foundation's services to all university students, and this was decided upon. The previous government directed the transfer appropriations towards this reform, but now the field of higher education has changed and it has become clear that some EUR 1.5 million is missing, and this is lacking in the government budget. I would like most of all to see the government allocate sufficient resources to secure the services of the FSHS so that that reform can be carried out, and at least not to undermine the services currently available to students in higher education. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u184	Madam President! Although there are many of us new Greens here, here is another new Green Representative with therapy training. So maybe this will relieve us a little of the concern that we do not understand what we are talking about. [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude] It has been studied that about half of the effectiveness of the therapy received is due to and comes from interaction, i.e. encounter and listening. In a situation where the mind is broken and life is difficult, it is hard to see that someone wants you to be heard, someone wants to understand you and help you. There is no single manifestation of the symptoms of the mind. Even today, the symptoms of the mind are often unnecessarily ashamed and want to be hidden. Somatic pain is one of the most typical ways to raise the symptoms of the mind to the surface. It is sad that it is easier to seek help for shoulder pain than to seek help for depressive symptoms. Could there be a reason for treating our mental health in basic health care today? A scheduled and overbooked doctor does not have time to stop and create a safe environment for the customer to share his/her own feelings. As a therapist, I have noticed countless times that when the reception has time for a person and the opportunity to let him be heard, he often wants to tell you things that matter. Sometimes this need can surprise a person, and just as often it has taken a leap forward in the treatment of physical pain by saying difficult things. This is an example of the enormous potential of a low-threshold psychotherapist or psychosocial encounter in this country in one way or another, because man has found one person who listens to a safe person. Madam President! More than half of Finns experience mental disorders at some point in their lives. That's a really big amount. It is worrying that only half of these patients receive the treatment they need. And that's a very small amount. Mental health disorders can no longer be silenced, and it is very good that we are discussing them here today. They can no longer be pushed aside to wait for interest to be increased in order to be covered by special medical care. And this is what this government now has a strong will. The creation of a mental health strategy and the tightening of the medical guarantee also represent a definite step towards this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u185	Do you want to go to the debatt?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u186	Mr President! I would like to say once again that this initiative and, in fact, its entire journey to this Parliament is so important that I am very short of breath. Mental health still has a huge amount of prejudice and shame, and this citizens' initiative and the campaign around it have brought mental disorders and the need for timely, accessible and low-threshold management to the heart of social debate. All those who have worked for and supported the citizens' initiative have helped to make visible the glaring holes in the mental health services of our welfare state, while at the same time increasing people's awareness and constructive attitude in terms of mental well-being and mental nausea. So, above all, a big thank you to those who took the initiative and to all those who signed it. Mr President! More than half of Finns are experiencing mental disorders at some point in their lives, but only half of them get the treatment they need. For students, the most common reason for seeking a doctor is mental health problems. A dozen people are on disability pension because of depression every single day. Even at an early stage, there are major shortcomings in the availability of support, although this is precisely what could prevent the need for heavier services for many. According to a school health survey published in September, nearly 40 per cent of first and second grade students in upper secondary school have been concerned about their own mood in the past year. Almost half of the same group would have needed help in matters of mood but has not received it from adults or from services at school. The figures for the whole of Finland are worrying, but sadly they also contain strong variation between regions. Mr President! Not everyone may know mental health services very well, and no wonder. That's how complicated it is to walk in their jungle. I myself have had a look at the complexities and pits of the system through a number of people who shared their stories. Let's do a thought game, let's pretend my leg breaks. The fracture is small at first, and I may not even notice it. Eventually, encouraged by close friends, I go to the doctor’s office. Your doctor will diagnose the condition, prescribe the treatment, surgery, plastering, rehabilitation. Imagine that this would be the start of a trick track: the search for a cutting surgeon and the competition, the endless mediation of different plaster patterns with various side effects. Fortunately, this will not happen. The Finnish health care system recognizes a broken leg, and typically the treatment path is uncomplicated. You get help fast, you get a broken leg fixed, and that's how it's supposed to go. It's different if you break your mind instead of your leg. A sick person may have to struggle to get help and wait in line for the care doors to open at all. The difficult support jungle discourages, and the lack of money can drive away completely from the treatment. Mr President! It is clear that we have a serious matter in our hands. Mental health disorders have indeed become a new Finnish folklore. The Therapy Guarantee Initiative has contributed to the breakdown of mental health taboos and has opened up a debate that must be conducted with the same shame and severity as any other illness. We need a new direction in solving and preventing mental health problems. The promotion of mental health must be done in schools, day-care centres, clinics and workplaces. Success in this is not only human but also necessary from the point of view of the sustainability of our society. As I told you earlier, in my hometown of Espoo, we have had very encouraging results on mental health skills to be taken to educational institutions. When this short-term therapy type of support or other discussion assistance is available at a low threshold in the school community, problems can be tackled even before they accumulate larger, and those who need longer-term care can be steered forward in time. This is the kind of activity we need everywhere in Finland. In addition to repairing services for children, young people and students, we also need help and support for mental health problems for families, working-age people, the unemployed and the elderly. Everyone must have the right to mental health. This work is illustrated by the mental health strategy in place for educational institutions, the models of lighter mental health care for the everyday environment and other government work to improve access to mental health services. A few weeks ago, I asked here a question that I would like to ask one more time: how do you recognise a mental fitness worker? The answer is, of course, not necessarily anything. Depression is not visible in the face — anyone’s mind can break. However, it may sometimes be forgotten that every Finn is affected by mental health problems in one way or another. We need to get this thing right. That makes economic sense, but above all it is right. We have in our hands a major task here, which I hope we can tackle together across the party lines. Indeed, the gnawing between parties does not credit this matter. Let's just grievances about the things we really disagree on — I think there are some. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u187	Mr President! The citizens' initiative on the therapeutic guarantee and its obligation to get to therapy directly via the health centre is a source of need and need. Twenty-four non-governmental organisations have put into words a need that is signed by thousands of Finns. The initiative proposes that a section of the Mental Health Act be added which would allow access to therapy in the context of a health centre visit, rather than requiring a specialist opinion on the need for therapy. Psychotherapy or other forms of treatment related to the illness should also begin within four weeks of the health centre visit. As a representative of the centre, I welcome the fact that the government is currently carrying out a wide range of measures that are already responding to the objectives of the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative. The primary health care guarantee applies to both physical and mental health problems without distinguishing mental health from the primary health care package. Legislative preparations for the introduction of a seven-day care guarantee are currently under way. A national mental health strategy is also under preparation. Its consultation ended at the end of October. One of the key objectives of the strategy is to speed up access to care and the timely and quality of services. Mr President! I believe that the demand for a therapeutic guarantee comes from a need and a feeling that when mental health is shaken, a person does not get help as quickly as the need may be. Mental health problems have increased in our society, both among adults and children and young people. Our system has not been able to respond to the increased need for treatment. There is a shortage of mental health professionals at all levels of care. When working on a national mental health strategy, it is also good to address the problem of getting enough professionals in family counselling centres, schools, health centres and university hospitals. It is clear that training places need to be increased. I am pleased that the University of Oulu will open up psychological training, which will hopefully ease the psychological shortage in Northern Finland. Mental health work requires a lot of work from its employees. Excessive workload, as is the case with school cranes and school psychologists, exhausts professionals in the field. They are unable to get involved in the affairs of a child or young person who is a customer as well as they would like, because the number of customers can be very high. In order to keep professionals at work and to be able to focus on their work with the necessary accuracy, the number of customers must not be unreasonable, as is the case today. Mr President! In conclusion, I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: what means can we use to get a sufficient number of mental health professionals at all levels of care?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u188	Mr President! Some years ago, when a former minister was asked what he was most concerned about at the A-Studio, he replied that he was most concerned about life if his mind started to take him away. This citizens' initiative is important and more topical than ever today. According to research, we are the happiest people in the world. At the same time, we have the most mental disorders in the OECD countries. Pressure has grown in our society, both in schools and in working life. The physical health of Finns has improved in recent years, and disability pensions have decreased. At the same time, however, half of disability pensions are mental health-related. One in five Finns experiences mental disorders during the year, one in five suffers from depression during their lives, and one in two Finns experience mental disorders at some point in their lives. Mr President! It is extremely worrying that every fourth child lives in a family where a parent has or has had a mental health or substance abuse problem. Mental health disorders account for 70% of the burden of disease on children and adolescents. Fifty per cent of mental disorders begin before the age of 14. The threshold for seeking help has been lowered, but multiple problems have increased. Children’s childhood experiences affect them for the rest of their life. According to the most recent population surveys, 7 per cent of women and 4 per cent of men have experienced a period of depression within a year. In particular, almost half the number of men gives cause for reflection: Women often have more support and safety nets around them and tend to seek treatment more easily. Men may still have different social and cultural expectations in terms of stereotypes than women today. Men should be durable, successful, and perhaps invulnerable. I myself have been able to study the divorces of the men left behind, and from that material it became very clear that in crisis situations my subjects did not want or find help in this difficult crisis of life, at a turning point. According to a Danish survey, the most marginalised group was divorced men in their early 40 ’ s. The word "outside" comes to us in Finnish from the word "utslagen", which means "out" and "outcast". These people in the crisis are increasingly in need of mental health services. The suicides of men who have been through the divorce crisis are twice as high as those who live in normal life, and the threshold for assistance for men should be significantly reduced. It's good that mental consciousness has grown. In the case of children, early intervention and work at home are of great importance. This will enable early identification of signs and control of the situation. More low-threshold services are needed in our country, such as service centres, youth centres and multi-functional emergency services — multi-functional day centres also reduce insecurity and loneliness for older people. The main focus must be on preventive mental health work and must also be a central objective. Unfortunately, the preventive work is not yet working in the desired way and the experts from the various parties have not found each other in a sufficiently coordinated way. A step-by-step mental health service system based on low-threshold services is more cost-effective than a system based on special care. It has been calculated that bringing one excluded person back to work will bring savings of 2 million to society. Mr President! A crisis situation can come up against each of us at some point in life. It can be a burnout, death of a loved one, divorce, bankruptcy, or something as dramatic. In such situations, the current treatment guarantee will become even more important. When the mind is shaken, then there is no time to wait weeks or months. We'd better get some help right away. Depending on the method of implementation, the cost of the psychotherapy guarantee would be 35 million — as has been said here today in many contexts — and it has been estimated that early intervention and the start of psychotherapy would transfer 7500 people from the benefits to the labour market. This would result in savings of some 340 million annually. In other words, the euro invested in the therapeutic guarantee would bring it back tenfold to society. At the same time, new labour would be needed. The goal of the new Finnish Government is to have an unemployment rate of 4.8 per cent, and at present it is over 6 per cent. By investing in the promotion of mental health, new working hands will be created. And not just them — the multiplier effect will be manyfold primarily by improving the quality of life of people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u189	I will give one more floor, then the Minister will reply, and then the debate will be suspended, and we will continue later.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u190	Madam President! There is now a very important initiative in our deliberations, and I would also like to thank the authors and signatories of the initiative for my part. The citizens' initiative aims to ensure the availability of early psychotherapist care. At the moment, access to the necessary psychotherapy is often delayed, which may also make mental health problems more difficult. The therapy guarantee has the same basic idea as the government programme’s entries that the focus should be shifted from special services to basic services and improved access to early support. I warmly support the idea that people will receive the necessary service much faster than they do at present. Mental health problems must be tackled quickly and by the right means. The Government is committed to improving the treatment guarantee. The treatment guarantee in primary health care will be tightened so that, in an emergency, treatment will be available within one week of the assessment of the need for treatment. The medical guarantee applies to both physical and mental problems. This preparation of the legislation guaranteeing the care guarantee is currently under way. Evaluation of the treatment required for mental health problems should be carried out as part of the planning of treatment. In addition to possible medical treatment, the need for therapy and the need for specialised medical care services should be assessed, as well as the need for sick leave for the client. An evaluation should be made by the patient’s primary public health care doctor at the time of the first visit. This can be a doctor, for example, at the health centre’s office, at home hospital, at school health care, at a maternity clinic or at a family centre. It is important that the first human contact is answered customer- and patient-orientedly and efficiently. This also makes a person more committed to treatment. Especially in mental health problems, this is essential. Rapid treatment at the basic level often also means that the need for specialist treatment does not arise. By investing in the base level, we avoid prolonging the difficulties, which means significant relief from both a human and an economic point of view. Madam President! Preparation of a national mental health strategy is underway. One of its key objectives is to speed up access to care, as well as the timeliness and quality of services. The strategy will be implemented as part of a future centre for social services, and its implementation will also include the availability of psychosocial methods in basic services. Young people in particular have more mental stress than before. Similarly, it is young people who are being directed to special care because of mental health problems that have increased. That is why it is important, as Mr Kiuru has already said in his speech, that the first step is to prepare mental health assistance at a lower threshold in this particular target group. The aim is to bring and consolidate short-term early interventions in the educational and educational environment for the most common mental disorders. As part of this service model, the short-term therapy period offered quickly, closely and on a low threshold will also provide effective support for mild mental health problems. This is an important first step towards better and more effective treatment of mental health problems. It is also essential that services be extended to other age groups at a later stage. Madam President! I think it is important that in future psychosocial skills are brought into the basic level in a completely new way. It also requires the training of experts and multi-professional cooperation. Targeted therapies under the Therapy Guarantee Initiative have many effective short-term psychotherapy and psychosocial therapies based on different reference frameworks. Some are psychotherapy produced by psychotherapists, but some are other impressive short-term interventions. In order to provide just the right and timely care for mental health problems, it is essential to increase mental health competence throughout the healthcare sector, including student care of schools and educational institutions and, for example, occupational health care. This requires training and continuing training and its resources. At the end of the day: Although the government has not provided a therapeutic guarantee in the sense that it is proposed in this initiative as a change of article, this initiative has also put mental health issues at the heart of the preparation of the care guarantee. The fact that mental health care is considered at least as important as the treatment of somatic diseases is not always a matter of course. That is also why I consider this citizens' initiative to be a very important opening and I look forward to a constructive committee reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u191	Then Minister Kiuru, reply for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u192	Mr President! First of all, it is good to say at the outset that if I offend my knee, the service system will certainly be able to deal with me through basic health care and special medical care, if necessary, to the operating table. I'm going to be rehabilitated, and I'm going to be walking again without sticks. You've even seen living evidence of this. It has to be said, however, that this same has not been possible for all Finns who suffer from other problems — not like the example just now, but, for example, from mental ills. And now we have to get serious here in Parliament to see that this is not a new issue. The citizens' initiative tells us that the citizens are tired of not being able to get these things right, and that is why we have to do something different than we did in the past. Here Mr Laiho has already referred to the line drawn up by Mr PALKO that psychotherapy and psychosocial treatment and rehabilitation methods are part of the range of services in this country, i.e. the range of healthcare services. But this decision is, hey, from 2018. At the same time, it has to be said that the Committee on the Rights of the Child has stated that we need to put these things in order and that children and young people need to be treated. That's the latest decision, the latest remark, I think it's from 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u200	We have now spent 1.5 hours of the time that was set aside from the Council of Presidents, so the debate and the debate will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u201	We will now resume the debate on item 3 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u202	Mr President! Yesterday was the day of the rights of the child, the whole week is the week of the rights of the child and this week we are also having Mental Health Week, which is a very good week to discuss this citizens' initiative here in Parliament. The purpose of the Day of Rights of the Child and the Week is to highlight the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to stimulate debate on matters related to the well-being of children. I would therefore like to take a stand here in particular on behalf of mental health services for children, although this is of all ages. In many speeches here today, it has been pointed out that more than half of Finns at some point experience a mental disorder in their lives, but only half of those with mental disorders or mental disorders get the treatment they need. I am particularly concerned about children and young people. A needy child cannot be left to wait for better times, for it is a question of his whole future. When a child’s mind is shaken, help must be as close as possible and behind a low threshold. In this case, both the child and the parents and the whole family must be able to rely on the availability of services and support regardless of their place of residence or wealth. Although the majority of Finnish children and young people are feeling well, we have heard, among other things, in the Audit Committee this autumn that children's rights in Finland are not being fulfilled for all children, and this is reflected, among other things, in the lack of services and the exclusion of young people. Or perhaps it would be better to say that children and young people are left outside because I do not believe that any young person wants to be excluded. Change must start with the basics. Yesterday I talked to Erika and Iida, a high school student, and they told me that there is always a teacher in primary schools who knows the students and with whom it is easy to talk about what, but in secondary school the situation changes and there is no more teacher, and in high school the students have to cope even more independently and even alone. Both girls stressed that it would also be important to have a more permanent relationship with even an adult from whom it would be safe to apply and ask for help when you need it. I brought this debate here for information because, in order to help and support young people, it is also necessary to change school culture and to think about how to deal with children and young people in everyday life. Mr President! We have failed in many ways in Finland to implement early support for children and young people, and this is reflected, among other things, in the increase in custody. The situation has deteriorated for several years, so this is not a new issue. During 2018, a total of 18544 children and young people were placed outside the home, and the number grew by 2.6 per cent from the previous year. Half of Finns live in municipalities where child welfare measures have to be taken because there are no mental health services. The focus of young people's mental health services and substance abuse services must be rapidly transferred to preventive activities and basic services. The main problem with services is that a young person who needs help is not taken in time for the catch. It is often a question of resources, but it is also a question of courage and sensitivity to intervene, and this supporting jungle is also very fragmented and scattered. The situation of special children has also become more difficult in many places. For example, ADHD, retardation, autism, Asperger and similar situations bring concern and fatigue to the family. Services targeted at children and young people and their families are provided by a wide range of actors: disability services, psychiatry, neurology and child protection. From the messages I have received, you can tell that families are not getting enough help because of a lack of resources or for some other reason, but they are told that ‘it is not now possible to help them to put their children on hold’,and that queue may be held for some time, even for a month. This is what my parents told me. Treatment and assistance should be individual and timely for the child and the youth. Attention and energy should be focused on promoting the recovery and rehabilitation of the child, not on clearing up the areas of activity of different authorities as it seems to be at the moment — responsibility is difficult for anyone to take. Both home, school and social services must work together to create the best possible conditions for recovery. This requires not only sufficient resources but also a new way of working together. This will help to prevent parental fatigue and increased symptoms and worsening of the situation. You can't keep a child who needs help waiting. It is also unreasonable to push children and young people and their families from one place to another. The current system sometimes seems to push people away from the services. Adequate resources for services must be secured, the whole family must be faced as a whole, and support must be geared towards the survival of the family and the people around us. Timely support and companionship are the best ways to help. Mr President! This citizens' initiative is very important because it has highlighted the serious flaw in our society, which has thus been getting worse for several years. The current government is committed to improving mental health. The Government has a number of measures to meet the objectives of this citizens' initiative. The mental health strategy will be renewed and the purpose of the strategy will be to speed up access to care and the timely and quality of services. The provision of care in primary health care is also tightening. Preparation of legislation on the introduction of a seven-day care guarantee is already under way, and mental health services are also covered. Low-threshold mental health and substance abuse services are also part of the programme to change child and family services. The aim is early intervention and support, and it is also essential to integrate the work of the various bodies. This is a very important objective. In order to help young people, short-term early interventions for the most common mental disorders, i.e. short-term therapy periods offered quickly, closely and on a low threshold, are to be introduced and consolidated at the basic level. Preparation of the model is ongoing and the intention is that implementation and related training can be planned and implemented locally as agreed. However, these early interventions will not solve all the problems but will continue to require robust preventive work as well as special care for the most serious mental health challenges and problems. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u203	Mr President! In this valuable and important debate today on mental health services, the fact is that it can be me or it can be any one of us. Whoever suffers from mental health problems, it is important that they receive adequate, high-quality and smooth treatment. Mental health problems, and in particular mental health problems among young people, have recently been discussed quite extensively in the media in our country. In particular, I rejoiced: Yle told me that young men today are easier to seek help with their mental problems. According to Yle, this good development has been supported, among other things, by the fact that many celebrities have reported their mental problems. We need transparency and courage to be able to talk about this important and very wide-ranging subject affecting Finns, but there has also been far too much bad news and information about the situation of young people. Recently, Yle told me of a survey she had conducted, in which one person told me that she had suffered from a panic disorder at the age of 14. He states: ‘School nurse advised the doctor, and the doctor only asked, do I want to take the medicine? I didn't want to. I did not receive any discussion assistance.” According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, demand for young people’s mental health services has increased exponentially in the 2010s. A lot of people could use therapy or some other kind of conversation. This citizens' initiative on the therapeutic guarantee has already done us good, as it has contributed to a broad debate on the thresholds and barriers to access to treatment. It was very important to us in the centre that the government made a commitment in its government programme to improve access to treatment also in mental health problems. We have already heard in this debate how the seven-day treatment guarantee also applies to mental health problems. The rapid access to treatment is absolutely essential, for when problems persist, they often become more complex, and with quick access to treatment we can prevent them from getting worse. A national mental health strategy is also being prepared and its consultation has recently ended. One of the key objectives of the strategy is to speed up access to care and the timeliness and quality of services. I believe that the aim of the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative is very good and worthwhile, because it is precisely the aim of improving access to care and also equality and preventing mental health problems from becoming more difficult. Mr President! In this debate that we have had today, we have heard good, important, valuable, touching speeches about why and how we can support mental health. I also strongly believe that when we talk about mental health services, it is also important to talk about preventive services and early intervention. It is better for both man and society if problems do not even arise. It is clear that we cannot completely prevent mental health problems, and that is why we need a high-quality and smooth access to treatment, but of course we can also do a lot. In the case of children and young people in particular, I think that we must always remember where the welfare of the child and young person depends in principle and where the foundation lies. It is important that we support families with children and strengthen parenthood and that it is good to be there in the family and in the home. Today I received a message from a person who spoke about how sad it is that, for example, home services for families with children have been pushed down in many municipalities in time and have not been fixed, and I therefore consider it important that the government is also committed to increasing the availability of home services. When the families are well, it can also be seen in the lives of children and young people, and parents can also have better opportunities and ability to pay attention to it if the child in the family is unwell, and then, if necessary, get care for him. For my part, I would like to express my thanks to those who have launched and signed this Therapy Guarantee Initiative, and I am pleased to welcome the comments I have heard in this debate that now that we have the matter before the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we will deal with it carefully and thoroughly and look at mental health services as a whole. This has been a good debate that we have had and it has been great to hear that we share a shared view in Parliament that mental health services need to be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u204	Mr President! I would also like to express my thanks to the organisers of the citizens' initiative. The therapy guarantee is needed. At the turn of the millennium, I myself conducted such a project to train experienced trainers, people who had experienced mental health problems and disorders in their own lives, to train people about what kind of services they should offer mental health rehabilitation and also to evaluate services from their own perspective. Even then, one very clear, coherent message emerged from these experts: the difficulty of access to treatment. You are either in such a good condition that you are not yet being treated or you do not have a decent feeling of illness, or you are already in such a weak state that you are not able to seek treatment or are able or able to do so. Also a very central challenge at that time arose such a ball between mental health and substance abuse services, that you first get the other half in order and then get here. Now, if we look at this journey, which has been carried in 20 years, we have fortunately come a long way from those days. There have been many types of mind strategy and many good steps that have been taken both by the state, municipalities and organisations, but we still have a problem with this early enough support and timely access to care. The Coalition Party believes that mental health services should be provided on a low threshold and that care should be provided much faster. If we look at this whole field of challenges, it is clear that we must tackle the challenges of mental health as a society. They are the most common reason for incapacity for work at the moment. They affect not only the individual’s own life but also, when one falls ill, it affects the everyday life of a great many other people around him. That is why it is our responsibility. I estimate that this citizens' initiative on the therapeutic guarantee also emerged from this need. In its alternative budget, the Coalition Party proposes EUR 35 million of permanent funding for the implementation of the therapeutic guarantee. I would like the government to take concrete steps here and now to take this forward, because this really affects Finns very, very much. Every single one of us knows someone with mental health as an essential issue. Looking further at young people and young people’s coping today, yes, it is something that I would pay attention to at a slightly earlier stage. Sometimes they worry about their own future, their own abilities, and the whole world. To this end, I would like to say that everyone around us will be remembered to say that you are enough. It is quite an important preventative message that pressure does not accumulate too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u205	Mr President! That's where I was just remembering the name of a late professor. He is Kaisa Kauppinen, and here I would like to pay great tribute to him for his work on the development of Finnish society at the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, but also at the University of Helsinki and for the unwavering support of care-free and bringing it to Finland. But now we are going to the citizens' initiative on the therapeutic guarantee: The nausea of the mind is folklore. We pay a great deal of attention to people’s illnesses in Finland — I must say that even more could be paid — but, yes, to this nausea of the mind we must stop now. At some point in one person’s life, one in two suffers from varying degrees of mental disorders. Mental health disorders cause a lot of suffering but also costs, and then, in part, where the costs come from, it is partly due to the fact that a growing proportion of workers' sick absences are linked to mental health problems. The main reason for our inability to work at the moment is mental health problems. Previously it was musculo-skeletal disorders, now it's mental health problems. Mental health problems have increased worldwide. There is an increase of up to 35% between 2016 and 2018 — think, over two years around a large percentage, an increase of 35%. Untreated problems often become chronic and complicated and also burden their loved ones both at home and at work. Fortunately, the threshold for seeking help for mental health problems has fallen, and the associated fear of stigma has decreased. Remember, too, that parents’ mental health problems have a direct link to children’s well - being. This citizens' initiative specifically seeks to strengthen the availability of mental health services and talks about a therapeutic guarantee. In particular, we want to strengthen those basic services, i.e. on the low threshold, quickly. The initiative proposes a legislative amendment to ensure rapid access to therapeutic psychotherapy or similar treatment. Indeed, many people of different ages who need help have waited far too long, and studies show that some have not received any help at all, and they then try to get involved with it in that normal life. Of course, it's not perfectly normal. We all know that the earlier the help, the better. This is a very welcome citizens' initiative. For example, the Coalition Party believes that mental health services should be easily provided on a low threshold and that treatment should be quickly, much faster than at present. The Therapy Guarantee implements the objective of equality in health policy and ensures that people with mental health problems are not left alone without help and support. Improving access to mental health services is particularly beneficial for those with the least capacity to demand and seek help. More than 53,000 citizens signed to promote the therapeutic guarantee for this citizens' initiative. Indeed, the Coalition Party supports the therapeutic guarantee provided by the citizens' initiative. We are also proposing 35 million permanent funding in our alternative budget for the implementation of the therapeutic guarantee. The Therapy Guarantee also has the broad support of other parliamentary parties, as before the elections it said that it was in favour of eight parliamentary parties. The Coalition Party also said that it was in favour of a therapeutic guarantee — indeed even before the parliamentary elections. I hope that this will be the starting point. Good speeches have been made here, there is support for every parliamentary group, and at one Question Time Minister Kiuru promised to take this forward, and that is what we are waiting for. It is a pity that next year's budget does not actually have funding, but of course that funding there is certainly just a matter of organisation. Then I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that we have access to rehabilitation in Kela. In Finland, for example, psychotherapy is largely organised as rehabilitation psychotherapy in Kela, which is a very unique arrangement worldwide. It is in other areas that short, effective psychotherapetic interventions are supported. At the moment, we have a very large number of people being directed to rehabilitation psychotherapy, for whom even the shorter intervention could be sufficient. But if it is not available, people sometimes have to wait a really long time to get into rehabilitation psychotherapy. At the same time, it is known that all diseases, including mental health problems, will become chronic quickly if treatment is delayed. That is why I would like us to have this therapeutic guarantee on a low threshold for basic services, because that is why we do not have to wait in line for rehabilitation psychotherapy, which is more long-term, because many people would benefit from this shorter one. There has been talk here about whether this can be easily arranged. We recently read a guest pen writing in Helsingin Sanomat, where people in charge of the Uusimaa area, for example, told HUS that it was possible to arrange this even on a fast schedule. Service vouchers and such commitments are already being used, i.e. private ones. So this, if that's what's going to be pretty quick, can be dealt with if you want to. It has been said here today that there are value choices full of this policy. Here's the screen. Is this a choice of values or not? Then I would also like to say that this is a question of putting out a fire. We should prevent these. No one, no child, is born with mental health problems, and no one is born a terrorist, and no one is born excluded. It's what this society does. That is why we need to consider how to prevent these. So do we prevent fires, but we do not prevent them sufficiently. — that is to say, on that basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u206	Mr President! Indeed, good speeches have already been made on this set and there in the past. I personally think with you that this initiative is, on the whole, very important and that it has good arguments, which have already been very much mentioned here, and a few arguments have been raised in a fragmented way. The generalisation of mental disorders is evident in our disability pensions, which means that more than half of our disability pension decisions are already on mental health grounds. This can also be seen in the case of young people under 30 years of age who have come to such decisions. The statistics also show that mental health problems, especially among children and young people, have become more common, and access to treatment is really slow. We have to wait for months, and we can't get that help and support from the basic level, but it's through special medical care all in all. On a personal level, mental health problems are really painful for the person who has them. Unavoidably, at first, you won't even notice that there is one. One may wonder what is at stake, but when it is not possible to seek support and help and not necessarily seen by those close to him, situations can become very difficult. And, of course, those close to you have constant concern about the family or friend that he has, what is happening and what can be done for him. Here, a non-governmental organisation such as FinFami must have met a number of parliamentarians, many of us too, and they have talked about these child-owners. It is a very painful situation if a child or young person is a parent or a family carer when a parent has mental health or substance abuse or both problems. Those situations are really bad. There is shame and embarrassment and anxiety and helplessness about what to do when you are too afraid to talk and dare to say that we have problems at home when that home is the best place for many people, the only place where security can be found. In fact, these things have become more and more visible, and I think it is very important that we dare to talk about these things. I can also say that in my own life I have seen a lot of this and I still see it, but I always think that there must also be the courage to seek help myself. Applying for psychosocial help or even therapy assistance is a good thing, but the problem is that a person can't get it, and that's why we're on the move. In addition to the fact that mental disorders and problems are really a big thing there at individual level and at family level, they are also a big thing for our economy. The OECD estimates that the total annual cost of mental health problems in Finland is around EUR 11 billion. It's a huge amount of money. That's one-fifth of our annual budget. Now, if we think about well-being at work, people's sick absences and how we could also raise the employment rate, then unless this nation is better able and our children and young people are able to help, there are rather poor-looking situations ahead of us. That is why the importance of this initiative continues to be emphasised. In other words, a truly appreciated initiative, and as has been pointed out in many speeches, the purpose of this initiative is to bring mental health services close and easily accessible. That is the question: close and easily accessible. When I got acquainted with that material, I thought that this, if what, is the important work of the future social centre, that there is a quick access to therapy and psychosocial treatment and that it will not take months, but that it will immediately be possible to assess the situation that would be the most important way and help the person best. Access to mental health services was also mentioned in this citizens' initiative, i.e. access to mental health services is also very unequal across Finland. If I remember correctly, it is very difficult to get to Lapland, and under the conditions of Lapland already, when there are long journeys, if those services are not available, it is very difficult. I believe that this initiative is also in line with the objectives of the government. I have already mentioned this health centre of the future and the seven-day care guarantee contained in it, and, as I have said here, I think we should be able to deal with these issues at the same time in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health — as long as we have a government proposal for a care guarantee. Then the mental health strategy: Work on it started already during the previous government term, and it has been in this autumn's consultation. As Minister Kiuru said, its implementation will amount to EUR 60 million over the next three years. I don't think that's a very modest amount. I personally think that this is the substance of the initiative that will be implemented in the implementation of the mental health strategy. Preventive work and early support: there has already been mention of this programme of changes in child and family services, which goes by the word Lappe, from the last parliamentary term. The name does not matter so much, but it does matter that the programme for changing child and family services is actually being implemented. It means family centre activities, co-operation between administrative branches and investing in maternity and child health care activities and it is precisely this kind of preventive work. Finally, I would like to say that I have followed this debate with great interest and I am convinced that we in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will take a careful look at the content of this initiative and hope to take forward what has been said here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u207	Mr President! According to the OECD report, the cost of mental health disorders amounted to EUR 11 billion in 2018. The costs consisted of direct social security expenditure, social security contributions and lower labour productivity. Prevention, prevention and prevention — even in this case, it would be cheaper than correcting what has already happened. There has also been talk in the Chamber today about support services for school, which I think would be very welcome, because all young people are taking this path and it would be very important to have early support at school. Prime Minister Rinne said today in the Chamber: ‘Policy-value choices. “ You can talk to anyone, but it's only the actions that decide. I hope something can be done about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u208	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the authors of this citizens' initiative. The initiative tells us that mental health problems have been awakened. At the social level, the mental health climate has become more and more positive. The great need and poor availability of psychotherapy has been widely identified. The initiative proposes a legislative amendment to the provision of a therapeutic guarantee for mental health services included in primary health care, which would ensure rapid access to therapeutic psychotherapy or other psychosocial care after the first health centre visit. In the event of a therapeutic guarantee, the patient would receive treatment even if he did not have the financial opportunity to seek private psychotherapy. The proposed legal amendment would also allow patients to receive treatment if they cannot receive rehabilitation psychotherapy as a substitute for Kela. Mr President! According to the rationale of the initiative, more than half of Finns suffer from mental illness at some point in their lives, but only half of them receive the care they need. In addition to the loss of well-being, mental health disorders play an important economic role in society. The total cost of mental health disorders in Finland is estimated by the OECD to be around 11 billion per year. According to research, investment in mental health costs itself many times as much. According to the citizens' initiative, the annual cost of the therapeutic guarantee varies according to the way in which it is implemented, but its size is estimated to be around EUR 35 million. According to the Finnish Association for Mental Health, almost half of all disability pensions have already been granted due to mental health and behavioural disorders. Prevention of disturbances and good and rapid access to treatment is important both from the point of view of the sick person and the national economy. Mental health risk factors tend to accumulate. Common risk factors in families are poverty, substance abuse, serious interaction problems, bullying at school and loneliness. Prevention of these risk factors will reduce the need for treatment at a later stage. Mr President! According to a recent survey of psychotherapists in Finland, psychotherapists are looking for better access to treatment and faster and more flexible guidance for psychotherapy. Only 21% of therapists estimated that their clients had received adequate treatment guidance. The respondents also hope that the training of psychotherapists will be increased. According to the Social Insurance Institution, the number of persons receiving rehabilitation psychotherapy has doubled in the 2010s. The only way to improve access to the service is to increase the training of new psychotherapists. The education system should therefore be re-evaluated and the possibilities of making it free of charge should be explored. The general availability of psychotherapy can also be promoted through early guidance. With early help, more patients benefit from even shorter psychotherapy. Low-threshold services are very important. There are already some low-threshold services in Finland, such as the NUOTTI training provided by Kela. NUOTTI training is low-threshold vocational rehabilitation for 16-29 year olds, which can be achieved quickly and without a paper application, a referral or previous studies. A young person or someone working with him can contact Kela by telephone, where the matter is directed to a rehabilitation expert. The implementation of the YOUTH training is always individual, and the training is free of charge. YOUTH training can be granted to a young person whose ability to function has been significantly weakened, for example, by limiting the planning of the future of a young person, by limiting his or her ability to study or enter employment, or by preventing him or her from continuing his or her studies. Another example of low-threshold mental health services is the open dialogue treatment model developed in Keroputa hospital in Tornio in the 1980s and still works. Treatment can be obtained without referral up to an hour if the situation is acute. The first principle of the treatment model is immediate assistance in a crisis. The open dialogue management model fulfils the same important objective as the Citizens' Initiative on the Therapy Guarantee, i.e. the need for rapid access to care. I hope that these two low-threshold approaches, the NUOTTI training and the open dialogue management model, will be examined in the further examination of this citizens' initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u209	Mr President! First of all, I would like to comment on a few points that have been raised in this debate. First of all, this treatment guarantee: Of course, it is always good that we have some sort of timescales when you get to treatment, but they do not help anything if you do not follow them, as has now been shown in mental health services for children and young people, for example. There will not be a treatment guarantee even if it is found in the law, so it is not just a sufficient solution. Then the question that has been completely ignored in this debate is why our children and young people are showing such strong symptoms at the moment. I don't think there's been much thought about it. Why? Is it our family policy that's wrong? What do we do in early childhood education? What about the school? Are they too restless? Are these kids under too much pressure? I believe that this is something that should be clarified alongside this, in other words, apart from the fact that treatment is being investigated, we should find out the root reasons why we have come to this situation, which is probably different from the youth and childhood of quite a few people in this Chamber, as well as the phenomenon-based and the extent to which it is. Then what I've been thinking about a lot is this when using the term low-threshold services. If we want early intervention and quick help, then should we start talking about treatment without a threshold? Is that perhaps the solution? But then I'm gonna start this speech: Mr President! The therapeutic guarantee we are debating today is a beautiful idea, and I thank you for this citizens' initiative. I fully understand the purpose of the citizens' initiative, because access to mental health services is far too difficult and therapy is not available on time. I am aware that a can of pills postponed into your hand is fast but inefficiently treated and therapy is often delayed or there are problems with admitting it. These things need to be fixed. Similarly, attention should be paid to prevention. Prevention seems to be a term that repeats only in solemn speeches but does not go into practice. The aim of the citizens' initiative is good, but it does not remove the fact that we are in a situation where we have a shortage of specialist psychiatric services. The problem with this initiative, in my view, is that therapy is being proposed before the real problem is clear. The initiative suggests that a health care professional should assess the need for services within three days of contacting and could already direct this to therapy. I think it is important to evaluate and treat as quickly as possible, but is there a risk that we do not actually know what is being treated? The wording used in the initiative on the assessment of the need for care by healthcare professionals raises further questions. Should it be concluded that a nurse or psychologist could assess the need for treatment and guide the patient to therapy? This would mean a huge change in practice, where, as a rule, the doctor will find out and diagnose the patient’s medical condition. It is good to remember that sometimes quite physical diseases can develop mental symptoms — what if a brain tumor is overlooked and the patient is in therapy? There are general practitioners in health centres. The diagnosis and treatment of psychiatric conditions require special competence. My concern is that the assessment of the need for general medical care will lead to an increase in the number of misdiagnosed diseases and treatments that are ineffective. This is not good for anyone, not for the patient or for society. According to the statement of the Finnish Psychiatrist Association, the three-day time limit for assessing the need for treatment is likely to be unrealistically tight. The diagnosis of mental disorder requires interview time and psychiatric competence, and the results of medical examinations may have to be awaited. Mr President! Bringing mental health services to primary health care is not just a matter of writing a law on it. The system also needs to be changed. Let us, for example, take our health centre network and the access of people with mental health problems to health care through it. You can think about how easy it is to get a call in the schedules between 8:00 and 9 a.m. and to wait for a call back. What if it is a mental illness, to which mere getting out of bed in the morning is an almost invincible obstacle? Low-threshold services, or actually low-threshold services, should be as easily accessible as possible. In Eksote, for example, good results have been achieved by the fact that you can always come straight to the reception without calling or making appointments. Mental health services are difficult to repair with individual legal changes and locations. In general, point action does not achieve the best possible result. This is a good example, for example, of the legislation on sexual offences, where the structures of the law have been broken, and it is difficult to apply. According to the Government Programme, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is currently preparing a mental health strategy. Its main objective is also to speed up access to care and to ensure that services are timely and quality. The development of mental health services is a whole in which the cooperation and division of labour in primary health care and special care must be considered. It is important that, alongside the citizens' initiative, we have a mental health strategy that should be completed by the end of this month. A strategy alone is not enough; it must also be reflected in practice. Hopefully, this work will also produce fruit in terms of easier access to therapy. Mr President! In this context, I would like to highlight the growing mental health problems of children and young people, which are already facing 20% of the age groups. At the end of April, 22% of persons under 23 years of age in line for special psychiatric care had had to wait more than 90 days. This violates the three-month treatment guarantee laid down by law for under 23-year-olds. The problem is, therefore, that the demand is high and that the treatment is delayed. This message is sent by professionals and child welfare, but also by schools. Although the Therapy Guarantee Initiative is important, we should at the same time talk about the whole problem. Should there be a reduction in the guarantee period for children and young people? As this problem is on the increase, the whole issue should also be raised separately in Parliament, and that is why yesterday I tabled a discussion initiative on the mental health problems of children and young people. I hope that we can talk about this as a matter of our own, because there are also the root causes that I have mentioned: why are children and young people unwell? How does family policy, early childhood education, school system, child protection, bullying and online mental violence affect it? Why are our children pressurized? Why are we no longer able to secure peaceful environments and support those children who need it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u210	Mr President! The Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative is good and supported in many ways. Early aid is right from a human point of view, but it is also right from an economic point of view, of course. The longer the problems go, the more expensive it will be to deal with them later. I would like to take this idea of a discussion initiative from Mr Rantanen's speech. This is certainly the subject of a wider debate, and the Committee on Audit is also currently monitoring this issue of social exclusion for young people with a magnifying glass. Nothing but a discussion initiative, and I will also sign it and participate in it. One thing that has obviously not yet been raised in any speech is that, in the same way as in these problems of mold, humidity and indoor air, there is goodwill and a variety of projects, there are government programme records and active ministers, but when it is fragmented into several ministries, no one really has received an overall extract from it. On these indoor air issues, it has been resolved by the Committee of Auditors' report, a comprehensive report, and on the basis of it measures were taken so that the Government took the lead, the various ministries took the lead, and a project called Healthy Spaces 2028 — not a project of a couple of years, but a long project focusing on construction and construction regulations, health care, education, all the areas to which it relates. This is the same problem when we talk about the exclusion of young people — it is, of course, associated with these therapy issues, depression, exclusion, overgeneration, illiteracy, this kind of multi-problem, and it's total guidance missing. Issues are dealt with by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, are dealt with by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and in many cases, when none of these ministries gets a proper grip on the young one, then the last ministry on whose property it comes is the Ministry of the Interior, or police services — then things are already very bad — and then, of course, the Ministry of Justice through convictions. So my proposal is to take this kind of Government steering on youth issues, exclusion, and it involves this therapy issue as an integral part.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u211	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking the authors of this citizens' initiative and those who have actively collected names for this citizens' initiative. It's very important. Above all, it is important in a humane way. It is extremely important that the thousands and thousands of Finns who face mental health problems receive care and assistance in a timely manner so that these low-threshold services can be provided, so that we do not burden the more expensive special care service. But, of course, this is not primarily a question of money, although, in economic terms — as Mr Kiuru said earlier here — it makes sense to provide and allow assistance and different treatment in a timely manner, in this case therapy, and in that sense also to be able to prevent these more serious problems. I have listened to this debate not only in this Chamber but also sometimes in that office, and I am pleased to say that this citizens' initiative has received very broad support from the outside and beyond the opposition-government borders, and that is a very good thing. The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, among other things, made an excellent speech in which I thought he was very confident that this was progressing. Although it may be that this citizens' initiative itself, with its details, may not necessarily be going through as such, the most important thing is that we should be able to improve on a timely basis. I think it is important that, when we think about the situation in Finland at the moment, we have a major problem with these diseases and a significant part of our work on absenteeism, on days of illness, on mental health problems and illnesses, and a significant part of disability pensions are also due to these. These have grown relatively quickly, and that is also why it is very important to tackle them from all angles. It is also important that these issues can be discussed openly in Finland today. It has not been long since these were things that were difficult to discuss, and in that way they were significantly separated from somatic diseases — if someone has a broken leg, then it is easy to talk about it, put on plaster and so on, but if we have mental disorders and need help, then it is a more difficult question. I support this initiative and I hope that it will move forward and that we will have help for people more quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u212	Mr President! I really appreciate this Therapy Guarantee initiative very high with all my heart, because I know for sure that this job is needed. The first thing I have to say is that Mr Tynkkynen has been raising the concerns of young people throughout the parliamentary term and I am sure that Mr Tynkkynen is the person in this Chamber who has been most involved in the problems of these young people. I'm sure you will. There have been quite a lot of communications with Tynkkynen about such matters, and I am not surprised that Tynkkyse has a heavy burden on his shoulders. I really do hope, and indeed I do demand of the government, that this issue be taken seriously. Sometimes there is a little fear that this kind of thing may not always be understood in this Chamber, because too many of us here are, however, those who have done quite well in life. That was quite well reflected today in Mr Zyskowicz's shout and in such a shameful style, I might even say, to take a stand on this issue. Mr Zyskowicz said yesterday that he has been here for 40 years and asked if he has been here too long. It's obvious, because it's actually reflected in the fact that you don't see the pain of people that's out there anymore. It goes without saying that Mr Zyskowicz has not driven the car to the edge of the forest and dug the vacuum hose out of the trunk and put it in the exhaust pipe and then through the window and taped the window holes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that, especially now that there is a very sensitive initiative and a subject on the table, we are addressing and talking about fellow Members in a sensitive manner, especially those who are not present. — Mr Vestman sets an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u216	Mr President! Mental health problems are present in the lives of many Finns. We all know these stories, ordinary stories, when someone's father, mother, child, friend gets upset. Anyone can have a broken mind. Mental diseases do not look at social background or income levels when they arrive. Up to one fifth of Finns suffer from either mild or severe depression, up to a quarter of young people suffer from some mental disorder. Mental health problems are all under-treated in Finland. They threaten and destroy the ability of Finns to work. They are the most common reason for incapacity for work. More than half of Finnish disability pensions are mental health-related. Mental health problems are the most common reason for sickness allowance. Kela paid sickness allowance last year on the basis of mental disorders for 4.6 million days, and this amount has increased every year. This is expensive, both humanly and socially. Mental health disorders cost Finland more than EUR 11 billion every year according to OECD estimates. Of these, EUR 6.5 billion is estimated to be the cost of health services and social security. Mr President! During the week of the rights of the child, I would like to highlight in particular the mental health services of children and young people or, more correctly, the lack of them. It is wrong even to have to take care of a child or young person with mental health problems in Finland because there is no workable care available in their own municipality. Mental health problems also affect children and young people through the illness of their parents. One in four underage children live in a family where the parent has a mental health or substance abuse problem requiring treatment. It is estimated that there are between 20,000 and 40,000 children and young people in direct care in Finland. Therefore, timely access to treatment is both economically sound and necessary in order to reduce human suffering. It is worth trying to treat the wounds before they become more inflamed. Access to mental health services must be secured and speeded up. Mr President! For these reasons, I support the citizens' initiative on the therapeutic guarantee now under discussion. Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers and signatories. You have succeeded in taking a concrete and feasible initiative to improve mental health services to Finland's political agenda, an initiative that can be implemented immediately next year. The therapeutic guarantee strengthens the basic level of mental health care. The initiative proposes a legislative amendment to ensure rapid access to therapeutic psychotherapy or other psychosocial care. The need for treatment should be evaluated immediately when seeking help and treatment initiated within one month of this. Improving access to mental health services is particularly beneficial for those with the least capacity to demand and seek help. Many would benefit from early communication assistance but will have to wait for services long enough for the problems to become more serious. Timely treatment must be ensured for all, not only for those who can afford to seek psychotherapy through the private sector. The therapy guarantee costs EUR 35 million. Generally speaking, I am very critical of permanent expenditure increases in public finances. They must be done with precise targeting and sustainable funding. This increase in the implementation of the therapeutic guarantee is definitely worth making. For once, it can be credibly stated that these additional contributions will pay for themselves, as more and more people get help at an early stage and work absenteeism due to mental health problems is reduced and the need for expensive special care is reduced. The implementation of the Therapy Guarantee is in the alternative budget of the Coalition Party, which also has funding for it. But what is the position of the Rinte government? Is the government committed to implementing this therapeutic guarantee? We have heard a lot of great talk in this Chamber today from representatives of the government parties, but there is no money in next year's budget to implement the therapeutic guarantee. It is not just the strategies and the working groups that have been referred to here today that will help. We need money and the value choices that Prime Minister Rinne called for in this House today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u217	Mr President! I'm sorry I didn't finish that speech last time. Now, after a couple of hours, let's try to finish this speech. I won't repeat what I started back then, but I told you about this young man I met. In Finland, it is not just a situation for young people to have their own problems, but for some people to become burdened and suffer mental health problems because they are required to carry other young people. This boy didn't commit suicide. He's alive today. Let this example illustrate the world we young people live in today. Safe communities and caring support networks are not self-evident for everyone to the extent they were a few decades ago. Instead, many youths have to be therapists to their friends who need a listener and a supporter and who need solutions to overcome difficulties. Yet these helpers often face many of the changes that youth brings. Young people should have the right to professional assistance and young people should have the opportunity not to shoulder the burden of many other young people when their own interests require attention. When a young person is looking for help and you are thinking about ending your life, you cannot return to the matter in a few months. Mr President! At the same time as we organise mental health services so that everyone can get help within a reasonable period of time, attention must also be paid to work outside mental health services. While professional assistance makes it possible to find paths towards a better tomorrow, we must not forget the important role of families in addition to this. [ The speaker is moved]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u218	Mr President! Every year, one and a half per cent of Finns suffer from a mental disorder and at least one in ten, if not one in five, Finns at some point in their lives suffer from one severe period of depression. According to various studies, some 20-25% of young people suffer from mental illness and are among the most common health problems of schoolchildren and young adults. Nevertheless, mental health problems are often at the margins of discussion and treatment. If a young person hurts his leg, our system will be able to deal with him through basic health care and, if necessary, special medical surgery. He'll be rehabilitated, and the walk and the run will be fine in a few minutes. But even though mental disorders are the most common health problem among young people, the same smooth treatment path is not possible in mental health services today. This is an important issue that needs to be improved. That is why this Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative is a good one. I am glad that it is in this referral debate. There's an imbalance in mental health services. Young people, in particular, have more mental stress than before, which is less severe than the disease, but manifests itself as problems and/or symptoms of anxiety and depression. Despite this, young people are increasingly being treated for mental health problems on the side of special care. The number of treatments has increased eightfold since the mid-1990s. The emphasis on special care increases the delay in starting treatment and thus reduces the effectiveness of treatment. The treatment has to wait too long, and after receiving treatment, the interval between treatment sessions is too long. In particular, there are shortcomings in the availability of treatment for mild and moderate mental disorders in primary health care. Special care has an invaluable role to play in dealing with serious problems, but a lower threshold is needed alongside it, and, of course, on the special care side there is also a price issue. Of the 20 so - called most expensive patients in one large municipality, at least ten were mental patients. Then there were a few of those who had severe cancers and also premature ones. These were the expensive ones to treat, so to speak. Mr President! A wide range of measures are under way to meet the objectives of the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative. The most essential measure is to tighten the treatment guarantee in primary health care so that in future, even in cases of urgency, treatment will be available within one week of the evaluation of the need for treatment. The primary health care guarantee applies to both physical and mental health problems without distinguishing mental health from the primary health care package. This will significantly speed up access to treatment. Mr President! Of course, mental health problems must also be detected in early childhood education and primary school. There is also a need for skills, for example in early childhood education, to be able to intervene in time when it is discovered that the child is starting to develop symptoms, and at school young people. Then, too, the problem that may occur at home can be tackled, thus helping the whole family. There should be resources for this. It's worth it. Mental health disorders are a major human problem but also a national economic problem, and two out of five people who receive disability pensions in working life, for example, are retired for mental health reasons. For mental health reasons, the average retirement rate is often younger and the return to work is less frequent than for other categories of illness, and this increases the total number of persons on disability pension for mental health reasons. The most common causes of transition to disability pension in 2018 were musculo-skeletal disorders, which were 33 per cent, then mental health and behavioural disorders 31 per cent. The numbers are high. The number of disability pensions granted for mental health reasons rose by 700 last year compared with the previous year. So there's a lot of work to be done. Mr President! Rapid low-threshold mental health work, care and also effective substance abuse work among both young and young parents — up to the elderly — are the keys to well-being. We've got to grab this. Good citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u219	Mr President! The reason why these situations, especially for young people, have been raised in a few speeches is the reason why these mental health problems have increased. One sure reason is that half of marriages and apparently even cohabiting marriages end in divorce and, of course, in these divorce situations, children find themselves in a difficult situation. In a bad case, they have to choose their sides. In good divorces, of course, if the divorce goes smoothly through agreements in agreement, there will be a proper agreement with the parents on the right to visit and care for children, but if this is not the case, there will be a risk that children will have to choose one parent, as it were. One parent may consciously alienate the child from the other parent. Let's do the treatment bullying, that is, when something has been agreed, you don't really want to hold on to it, every effort is made to avoid complying with those agreements, and then manipulate the child so that, in different situations, he tells the professionals and the next of kin why he can't live with that other parent and maybe be as set out in the contract. During the last parliamentary term, this matter was dealt with, and, for example, yesterday, Risikko mentioned the fact that the role of grandparents has been improved in this conclusion of care agreements, but there is still much work to be done, for example, this issue of alienation certainly needs further attention. Whenever you talk to children who are in such situations and who need help with mental health or in such divorce situations, everyone raises it that when you have one adult, one parent who can rely on and who listens, gives support and knows how to show direction. The person can also be a teacher who tells the child not about weaknesses but can show the child and encourage you to have the strength on which the life can be taken forward. That one person, a few phrases in one day may be such an act that will hold that child forward for decades through adulthood.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u220	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank those who have taken the initiative. This is an extremely important issue. There has been talk in this Chamber about prevention and fire-fighting, and it is indeed the case that rapid services, the rapid provision of mental health services, if necessary and especially in acute situations, so as to be able to intervene quickly, would also be prevention. A week of children's rights has also been mentioned here. It is really important to target these preventive measures on children and families. Fortunately, there are still representatives of government parties here, and the Government Programme states that measures to promote the well-being of families with children and to prevent problems will be increased, and the aim of the programme to change services for children and families is to develop counselling centres and strengthen support for parenthood and preventive services for families. These are exactly what we should be investing in. For example, when we invest in a maternity clinic, such as a social worker — a family therapist — we are able to support the development and growth of the child’s early interaction and the formation of a attachment relationship, which is extremely important in preventing future mental health needs. In other words, it is extremely important that the record of the government programme is carried out, in addition to supporting the dynamics of the family and thus preventing the deepening of the problems. This is an early intervention which will help to avoid the emergence of deeper and more expensive problems. About what has been said here about mental health problems, such as suicides, I can say with 32 years of experience in the fire department and the ambulance, seeing too many suicides, that this is just something that needs to be addressed. When we talk about value choices, these are the things we do, this society really has to invest money. Good, too, was this observation of divorce situations. This alienation has been mentioned during the previous regime — an extremely important phenomenon that needs to be addressed. Support for shift parenting and the role of grandparents in having a support network when it is needed. Preventive services are one of the things to be invested in so that there is no more expensive need for care later. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u221	Two more speeches from the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u222	Mr President! I would like to say a few words about what has already been well discussed here. The mental health problems of children and young people have increased for some reason. For example, there have been more and more reports from day care centres about how these problems already appear at the age of day care. I think it is very important to think about and explain why these problems arise and arise. This phenomenon is also evident in schools, as we have heard from many today. Could one reason be found that our children and young people are under increasing pressure and, as has been said, we are also living in a rather fragmented time? Unfortunately, families break up, grandparents may live very far away, and there are no family ties and local communities that have been more than that in the past. Of course, there have always been these problems. Today there is more talk about them, and that may, of course, be one of the reasons why there may seem to be more problems today when they come out and talk about them, which is a particularly good thing. Then, for example, in the case of girls, the social media does highlight the appearance and thus create unnecessary pressure for many girls — yes, for boys too. We are not living in such an easy time for mental health in this fragmented time. I am also concerned about what is often mentioned in our debates, that very young children are starting to be evaluated and compared in relation to each other, for example when we talk about early childhood education. I think that a child should be a child and have the childhood, and that should not be the way to put pressure on families or children as to what they must be. It will be enough when school starts giving numbers and grades. Representative Mr Kiuru raised a very important issue, this family break-up and family break-up, and Mrs Huru also pointed out that we now have a government that has decided to strengthen the relationship work and support for parenthood. This is a very important issue and it must be ensured that it will also happen. That is why this week, on the day of the rights of the child, I asked the Minister a written question on how this will be implemented in concrete terms. For example, we have parishes doing a very valuable job of providing couples advice and couples therapy for everyone, but it should be provided more widely, including through society, and also raising parents' awareness that it is worth trying to fix and build a relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u223	Mr President! Prevention is probably the key word we need, and there are many ways. As Mrs Huru has just said in her good speech, I am sure she will leave the clinics and support for families. First of all, there families with their first child, for example, generally feel that help and such multiprofessional skills and support are available on the public side. Then, at a time when one of the problems comes in the family for a reason or another — the problems can be diverse; there can be poverty, unemployment, substance abuse and so on — then there must be contact with that public service, and therefore it must be strengthened, and of course it will continue to do so. You have to have knowledge in day-care centres and schools from the teacher's point of view to intervene and see and take over in time. Prevention is everything a and o. But then, of course, as has been the case now, some of them are faced with problems such as child protection, and there should then also be tools and resources to provide strong assistance to those children and young people who are most vulnerable at this point and most vulnerable. They will then need a fair amount of support and, at the moment, professionals in the sector have clearly indicated that there are not enough resources, that is, there are not enough nurses, there are no structures that work, there will be no services for those young people, such as substance abuse or mental health services on that side, and these will require resources. Now there may be one social worker per 80 child welfare clients. We must now get that dimension first, as we are looking for in the government, that is, one to 35, and then even more, well, one to 25 could have a professional view, which is enough. So that's where the stakes are. Also this nursing business: I think that tending and doing business is a bit of a bad combination, and it doesn’t matter that we go there to do a little more than money ahead of these things in these healthcare listed companies, that we start to please shareholders and get dividends there, and then it’s out of treatment. The same thing is happening in this area of child protection, and I believe that a change of direction should also be introduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u224	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 10/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u225	Madam President! This government proposal concerns the increase in soft drinks tax and is based on the central-left government programme. The proposal is well-founded from the point of view of both the national economy and public health. We need tax revenue and we must also encourage healthy food and drink choice through various measures. At the moment, we Finns, according to many studies, are eating and drinking too much sugar, which is also reflected in, for example, medical expenses. Thus, the tax pursues not only health effects but also tax effects, and this leads to a shift from sugar - rich drinks to sugar - free drinks. I find it interesting that, when it comes to sugary drinks or milk, many people feel that taxation or other such restrictions on access can guide the consumer behaviour of the people, but at the same time it seems to be prohibitive when it comes to the question of whether wines should be brought into grocery stores or alcohol policy in general. However, it would also be good for us, through various social measures, to try to reduce the use of stronger alcoholic beverages, and this is becoming a government proposal for a moderate increase in alcohol tax. It is indeed a question of sugary drinks and of trying to change consumption through taxation. I think it is important to take into account the fact that these are the ones that are hardest felt in the wallets of the low-income. Of course, we cannot deny those on low incomes the possibility of using juices and sodas, and that is why it is important that these increases are now very moderate. As a result of this tax increase, retail prices of sugary soft drinks would on average increase by around 3 per cent and those of other soft drinks by about 1 per cent. The increases made by the government at the beginning of next year in terms of security and taxation will help to balance the situation of the low incomes. According to the calculation by the Ministry of Finance, the government budget will increase the majority of Finnish handheld income next year. It is excellent that the government negotiations and the budget negotiations were able to negotiate a package that will improve the situation of the lowest incomes in the country as a whole. Another good thing about this government proposal is that it has been able to take the perspective of small entrepreneurs into account in accordance with the Government Programme. The threshold for small production exempted from soft drinks tax is raised from 50,000 litres to 70,000 litres, according to the Government Programme entries. This may, for example, strengthen the conditions for farms producing juices as a secondary agricultural activity. All in all, the government's proposal is very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u226	Mr President! The soft drinks tax is discriminatory and unfair. If the tax on soft drinks is justified as a health-based harmful tax, the same logic suggests that mineral and source waters without sugar should also be excluded from the tax on soft drinks. From the point of view of competition neutrality, it is also very problematic that only one category of products, or soft drinks, should be taxed on a point-by-point basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u227	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 10/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Mr Vehviläinen, Chairman of the Committee, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u228	Mr President! Report 10/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health deals with the Government's proposal that Parliament approve the Agreement amending the Agreement between Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden on the Nordic labour market for health care personnel groups and veterinary surgeons. The agreement in force since 1993 contains provisions on mutual recognition of professional rights and the transfer of control data between the Nordic countries. The aim is to clarify the system of recognition of professional qualifications so as to eliminate the duplication of the agreement with the Professional Qualifications Directive. Under the amending agreement, the professions covered by the agreement are subject to the system of recognition of the Professional Qualifications Directive. In addition, the scope of the agreement will be extended from Nordic citizens to EU and EEA citizens in order to ensure equal treatment. Veterinarians will be completely removed from the scope of the agreement. The amending agreement also contains provisions on the exchange of supervisory information. The committee notes that the proposed amendments to the agreement between the Nordic countries and to the Law on Health Professionals and the Law on the pursuit of veterinary professions clarify the practice of recognition of professional qualifications in the Nordic countries and align them with the procedures of the Professional Qualifications Directive. In addition, the changes are worthy of the right to self-employment in the Nordic countries from the point of view of equal and equal treatment of the workers applying for employment in the Nordic countries. The committee supports the adoption of the amending agreement and the adoption of legislative proposals unchanged. The agreement extends the mutual recognition provided for by the Professional Qualifications Directive to the Faroe Islands and Greenland in respect of the health professions which are being trained in the self-governing regions concerned. These professions include a nurse, a care worker and a nearby nurse. The committee draws attention to the fact that the care assistant is not a health care professional within the meaning of the Health Care Professionals Act. The Finnish degree system does not recognise the degree of the care assistant, but the education of the care assistant is based on the completion of certain parts of vocational qualifications and the content of the education varies between the providers of the education. The committee considers it necessary to monitor the status of care assistants, despite the fact that many professionals have not come to Finland from the Faroe Islands and Greenland. After the proposed amendment of the contract, in the professions covered by automatic recognition, the right to self-employment is granted only on the basis of the Professional Qualifications Directive and the national legal instruments implementing the Directive. The automatic recognition of health care professionals includes the professions of doctor, dentist, pharmacist, nurse and midwife. According to the Professional Qualifications Directive, the right to self-employment based on automatic recognition is granted on the basis of training and diploma obtained in another EU or EEA State. In the professions covered by automatic recognition, the amending agreement will only result in a change in the granting of the right of employment for persons who have completed training in a country other than the EU or the EEA. Under the existing agreement, recognition has been required by another Nordic country to grant a valid right to engage in a profession, so that the right to engage in a profession could also be granted on the basis of training in a third country. Health professions other than those covered by automatic recognition are covered by the general recognition system of the Professional Qualifications Directive, which compares the applicant's training with the corresponding Finnish degree. Where there are substantial differences in training, the applicant may be subject to compensatory measures to achieve professional qualifications. The committee notes that the recognition and authorisation procedure of a degree according to the agreement has been smooth in those health care professions where qualifications have been found to be similar in the Nordic countries. The amendment of the contract will alter the treatment of matters relating to the legalisation and title protection of professions covered by the general recognition system, particularly in situations where compensatory measures or opinions are required from educational establishments. However, according to the Government’s proposal, the professions included in the contract have already been considered to be uniform at the time the contract was concluded, so there may not be any substantial differences between qualifications and therefore no need for compensatory measures. The Committee considers it important that the granting and mobility of professionals who come from another Nordic country to Finland under general recognition remain as smooth as possible after the entry into force of the amending agreement. This requires the development of a process of processing the recognition of qualifications and ensuring sufficient resources for the processing process. In addition, the Committee draws attention to the effectiveness of the exchange of monitoring information of importance for patient safety between States Parties. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u229	Mr President! Thank you for presenting this report. — All in all, such agreements, which are also at issue here, are of particular importance precisely because of Nordic cooperation and, in particular, from the point of view of the patient. After all, we need Nordic cooperation when, among other things, we need care from other Nordic countries. I remember that when I was a minister at the time, we were in a situation where we really needed constant help from the Nordic countries to care for patients, but we also have staff exchanges within the Nordic countries, and that is why it is really important for the agreement to guide the recognition of the skills of these professionals. This also comes when a person moves from one Nordic country to another, in connection with his or her further training. On the other hand, since we have a slightly different education system than in other Nordic countries, we need to know which professional title or training he has received, so that we know what kind of specific training is needed if we want to have additional competence in Finland, for example, to specialise in some professional requirements. It is very good that these are always specified and updated. Thank you for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u230	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 2/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u231	Madam President! Thank you to Parliament's banking council for the report and to the Committee on Economic Affairs for the report. I would like to make one more point about the report. The Bank Board of Governors raises as one of the risks to our country's economy the strong indebtedness of private individuals through both secured and unsecured loans. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy points out in its report that the Ministry of Finance has recently completed its work on the basis of the legislative changes to curbing the indebtedness of citizens. I think it is important for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to point out that when indebtedness is curbed through legislation, particular attention must be paid to impact assessment, because regulation on housing affects everyone in Finland. The starting point must be that Finnish ordinary wage and salary earners must have the opportunity to save housing. At the same time, it is right to pay attention to it and to act in such a way as to avoid as far as possible the risks of over-indebtedness. The report of the Board of Governors also notes that there has been an increase in the number of payment disruptions for individuals. In this context, I would like to point out that many over-debted people are unable to cope on their own, and that is why, among other things, we should improve access to social credit and extend it to the whole country, because now it is only available in some 30 to 40 municipalities. For example, it is through social credit that many people who have received a default note have come to an economic balance. We should do everything in our power to support people's ability to cope with their problems, to take responsibility for their lives and to get back from the negative cycle to the positive cycle.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u232	Madam President! In connection with the report by the Banking Council, I will raise two points which have also been addressed in this report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The first is interest rate policy, and the second relates to what Mr Aittakumpu referred to above, namely the indebtedness of individuals. We live in extraordinary times in which we have long had not only steering interest rates but also the interest rates paid by our citizens very low. Since the financial crisis, central banks have left to revive the economy and have launched rather massive securities purchase programmes and have contributed to the increase in central bank balance sheets but, at the same time, to the recovery of European economies. In this situation there have also been speeches, even in public, that, in an exceptional situation, when some countries, including Finland, were in debt at the beginning of this summer, even at a minus interest rate, it would be worth taking a strong debt and investing in it, because it is at a negative interest rate. However, in these speeches, which in a certain way contain an understandable message that this level of interest is exceptional when it goes even downhill, one side of the debt may be forgotten, so that debt must sometimes be able to pay back. It is due one day and the payment of interest is only one part of that debt ratio. If we had a safe investment where we would get a return, of course we should take an impossible debt at a negative interest rate and invest in it, but if we are going to invest more securely than in Finnish government debt securities, then we should perhaps invest in German government debt securities, but their interest rate is even lower than that of Finland, when it is no longer profitable economically. That's why I see myself, though, that if we take a debt now, it will be due one day, perhaps tens of years from now, and even though the government's debt is rolled out of these things, that it will usually be replaced with a new debt, so if we recklessly go into debt, then it will happen that our interest rate will go up, and then we will not necessarily be able to repay it with a new debt under the same conditions and we may be caught in a spiral which is not as good an economic development as would be hoped. Another aspect of this is that what is then a genuine investment in which this debt money would be taken. — If the President so permits, I shall proceed to that toilet. [First Vice-President TuulaHaatainen : Full-right. Here you go. [Speaker to Talker Rock]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u235	Mr President! The report of the Parliament’s Banking Council for 2018 will be discussed. That is what the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has presented a report which has drawn attention to a number of issues, but I would nevertheless like to highlight and clarify a number of points. First of all, this report by the Committee on Economic Affairs states that the Bank of Finland's balance sheet has grown considerably as a result of unconventional monetary policy measures. Indeed, the total amount of the Bank of Finland’s claims at the end of 2018 was over EUR 100 billion. A significant part of this, EUR 45 billion, consisted of intra-Eurosystem claims, a large part of which were the so-called Target 2 claims of the banking system. Finally, the status of these claims is likely to be comparable to unsecured claims, in the same way as bank deposits are also final claims. However, the need for monetary policy stimulus has been interpreted as still in place, and this need has been met by the use of unconventional monetary policy measures, such as large-scale portfolio purchases. The Bank of Finland’s balance sheet includes item 7.1, i.e. so-called securities held for monetary policy purposes, amounting to EUR 45 billion. Of these, the largest item is the public sector debt securities purchase programme, amounting to EUR 28 billion. In exceptional circumstances, the abovementioned items involve risks and the current monetary policy situation is at least peculiar with zero interest rates and negative interest rates. There is an artificial rise in the property value of financial investments, and the zero interest rate situation, at least as it is, has hardly ever been experienced before. In fact, I doubt that even the central banks know how this situation will normalise. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the consequences of this perceived monetary stimulus. With the efforts of central banks and the opening up of cash flows, capital wealth has increased enormously. At the same time, the purchasing power of people’s wages has stagnated or even decreased over the years. At the same time, however, the taxation of wages and occupational pensions is relatively tight compared to this capital sector and the purchasing power of citizens is being undermined by increased housing and transport costs. Against this background, it is hardly surprising that there has been considerable political turmoil here, including in these central Western financial centres. I hope that the reports of the Banking Council, including the forthcoming ones, will draw attention to these points. With regard to this Government Programme in general, the report of the Banking Council also looked at the sustainability of public finances, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that page 76 of the budgetary plan presents a so-called sensitivity assessment of the economy and shows that if economic growth in Finland were to remain just one percentage point of this basic career, it would mean that the ratio of public debt to GDP would increase by more than 10 percentage points and that, in practice, the basis of many of these economic policies in the Rinte Government Programme would be completely betrayed. So we are in a very narrow area here, and when many representatives here say that various cuts have been cancelled and the direction has been reversed, the situation picture is actually quite different.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u236	Mr President! I have to grab Mr. Salmon's speech. After all, he spoke quite rationally about public debt here and said that, in principle, it should be the case that when debt is taken, it is like an investment that then recovers revenue. Well, this is not the case with this government, but it seems that debt is only accelerating. The government's proposal 89, which came to us today, states that next year's debt is expected to amount to around 2.2 billion. It seems that this speech by Mrs Salmon has gone to deaf ears when, obviously, this debate has not been conducted within the government. Here we only hear it from the opposition, who understand what debt means when it is used to finance permanent expenditure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u237	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. — Mr Risikko, Chairman of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u238	Mr President! Indeed, here are the concepts of the government's proposal for a law on the amendment of the Student Aid Act to Parliament, and I am indeed going to make a presentation, because when this was an opportunity to present, unfortunately I did not have the opportunity to come myself. In other words, the Committee on Education considers that the proposal to bind the student grant to the National Pensions Index on 1 August 2020 is very much to be welcomed, as binding to the index reduces the loss of purchasing power of student support and ensures the sustainability of the system and the level of income of students. The EUR 25 increase in the level of the care-sharing increase in student grant is also very much to be welcomed. The increase in the level of the care-sharing breed increases the funds available to the student and improves the conditions for combining study and child custody. The proposal proposes to take into account the academic concept and qualifications of foreign universities in the terms of the student loan credit and to change the regulation on the voluntary return of student money and housing allowance as a result of a change in the timetable for the implementation of taxation. It is also proposed to waive the possibility of providing a housing allowance in countries with low rent levels. The Government's proposal also contains proposals for amendments to certain provisions of the Student Aid Act, which refer to other legislation. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee proposes the adoption of a legislative proposal without amendment. A few words: First of all, the indexation of the study grant is very good. That has already been decided at the time in the last period, but now it has been put to work, and that is an excellent thing. As regards the status of family students, we say: ‘The Committee on Education and Training is concerned about the fact that,in particular,two of the parents of the parents of the two students often have to stop The plight of family students is also illustrated by Amisbarometri 2017, according to which as many as 34 per cent of family students in vocational education have had to resort to quick pay or consumer credit. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs is very much in favour of this increase, as the increase in support is directed towards the most vulnerable group of students. It contributes to improving the ability of family students to complete their studies while at the same time contributing to the well-being of the student children’s families.” Then we will also take a position on the voluntary return of the student allowance and the housing allowance: ‘The proposal for a Board of Directors includes a new power to adopt a regulation according to which the Council of State regulation lays down a deadline for the reimbursement of the student’s study allowance and residence The deadline shall be consistent with the deadline for reimbursement of the benefit decided by the Tax Administration during the year following the year of payment. Compliance with this deadline is a condition for the payment to be taken into account, as appropriate, in the taxation of the year of payment. According to the study received, the Tax Administration has decided to bring forward the deadline from the end of May to the end of April so that it will apply to the tax payments already made in 2019, i.e. the benefits to be paid back in spring 2020. In addition, the Tax Administration has announced that it can change the schedule annually. In view of the above, the Committee on Culture considers the proposed power to adopt a regulation to be appropriate. The Education Committee attaches great importance to both the recipients of the student allowance and to Kela that the return deadline will remain the same in the future. The Education Committee stresses that the time limit for voluntary return of study aid must be known in good time to the beneficiary. The beneficiary shall also have at his disposal the necessary information on his or her income for the calendar year in order to assess the need for voluntary return.’ Finally, it says on this follow-up to the reform: ‘The Committee on Education and Culture considers it important that the Ministry of Education and Culture monitors the practical impact of the proposed Then we will also say a few words about the development needs of student aid here: ‘In 2014 the Commission has had to implement a comprehensive reform of the education aid legislation during the following election period,in order to ensure that the financial conditions for the main activity are shared in the light of the clearness,transparency, flexibility and incentive of Expert consultations have shown that the student support system is very complex, although it has been clarified in some respects in recent years. The Committee stresses that this complexity is partly due to the environment and other legislation to be taken into account, in particular the regulation of social security. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs continues to believe it is important to improve the clarity, transparency, flexibility and incentive of the system and the equality of students, as stated in the statement." After all, our report was unanimous, i.e. Parliament accepts the bill contained in the Government proposal 33/2019 without amendment, but we did pay attention to a number of things, especially a kind of proposal from the Tax Administration. Kela did not agree with that, so we said this and we hope that it will be taken into account. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u239	Madam President! This government proposal has, in my view, been supported by all the parliamentary groups, certainly because it binds student aid to the index and thereby improves the purchasing power of students and keeps them involved here in the world. Studying must be possible, because only through education can Finnish society rise, and only through knowledge can we increase the productivity of work, which is also the subject of much discussion in this Chamber. I am absolutely in favour of adopting this government's proposal. It is also a good thing that the government recognises the financial distress of students and is doing its best in front of them. In fact, the tens of years of study grant-oriented student support was achieved during the deepest recession in the 1990s by the Aho Government, and now, although there are few grey clouds on the way to the economy, we still dare to raise the income of students, for example in the case of family students. There is an increase of EUR 25 in the care-sharing breed. I think it's important. This will help to clear up the space for encouraging learning in order to have children. I hope that the increase in the guardianship of students will help to encourage young people to become familyised rather than to postpone the creation of a family. It is quite intolerable that we have so few college students who use this parenting increase. In fact, only 14,500 college students raise the parenting rate. This has become apparent in the proceedings of the law. One third of it is university students and two thirds of it is polytechnic students. I find it worrying that so few people are covered by this benefit. I would like to invite the student organisations to join us here in this House in considering the fulfilment of children's wishes and how we could encourage university students to have children more effectively. However, I believe that, in the longer term, student support should be developed in the direction of basic income, and that is where we still have a lot to do. It is worth saying out loud that the current Student Support Act is really confusing after all the reforms, and in fact Kela’s benefits in a nutshell are closer to 500 pages. I think we have over a dozen different student grants in Finland as a result of these reforms, and I hope that the student support system will be developed as part of the social security system and that it will be seen as significant there. In the longer term, it is essential for students to cover the cost of living that we increase the level of study aid and, in particular, the part of the study grant here as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u240	Madam President! On Tuesday morning this week, I received a picture message on my phone when I was arriving here in Parliament. In that picture, I was watched by a little baby, a new person. A baby boy was born into our family of friends. This is the kind of message we need more. Just like the representative. Kempp brought up, we need to create a more family-friendly and child-friendly country. Last week, here in Parliament, we talked about building a more child-friendly Finland at the centre's initiative, and there were good points of view and measures to help make our country more child-friendly. In order to increase child-friendliness, it is very gratifying that the government is now increasing the increase in the number of guardians of study allowance by EUR 25. During the last parliamentary term, this increase in student aid was returned, which was abolished in 1992. The increase was EUR 75, and now it will indeed be EUR 100 a month. It is important to create opportunities for families to become more familyised during their studies. This is highlighted now that the birth rate of our country has collapsed to a historically low level. In particular, we must guarantee everyone the opportunity to reach the number of children they want. Mr President! It is also very nice that student support is now linked to the index. In its report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs notes that ‘indexarrangement reduces the reduction in the purchasing It is clear that these actions are not enough, but we must continue, as has been pointed out in good speeches, in various ways to clarify and develop our student support system so that it meets the needs of the time we are now living in. It is noteworthy that the committee's statement is that there must be a broad debate on the income of students, which also includes the fact that we have to look at the limits of the student's free income and the degree of student indebtedness. It is great that with this government proposal we are taking further steps in the direction of education and training. That is why this government proposal is very much to be welcomed. It creates hope and strengthens the view that everyone in this country should have the opportunity to study as far as the commons are sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u241	Mr President! Linking the student grant to the index is to be welcomed, as it strengthens the purchasing power of students. At the same time, however, it must be noted that the government has forgotten its election vows. In a survey conducted by SYL and SAMOK of the Federation of Finnish Student Unions, the government parties promised significant increases in the student grant for university students. However, the fact that the student grant is now being processed is only an increase of a few euros. An increase of between EUR 3 and EUR 25 in student money does not correspond to government parties' promises for some of the up to EUR 100 increases. The second part of the performance, the increase in the level of the care-sharing breed, improves the conditions for combining study and custody of the child, and this is a good thing. I salute it with joy. At the same time, I would like to raise another issue relating to student money: Approximately 60 per cent of students work alongside studies. Income limits are currently a major incentive trap that has prevented students from gaining their work experience and has prevented the rise in the standard of living earned by their own work. Kela has recovered student financial aid from nearly 40,000 students this year because of income limits. The Coalition Party proposes in its alternative budget that students' daily lives should be facilitated by increasing the current income ceiling for student support by 50%. In this case, the annual income limit for students raising student financial aid for nine months would increase by EUR 6000 to EUR 18000. The current income limits of the student support system hinder the acquisition of additional student income and, at the same time, the accumulation of work experience. Too much hard work is being fined too quickly. The change would also benefit society, as according to the report of the Finnish Labour Institute, a 50% increase in income limits would also increase the net income of general government by approximately EUR 6 million per year. I hope that the government will take on this next.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u242	Madam President! This motion was indeed adopted unanimously in the Committee on Culture. However, a large number of experts have been consulted, and yes, there was the concern and observation among the experts that student aid has become a very complex benefit. I agree with the previous speakers that, during this term of government, we should look at whether it could be made simpler. In particular, this lack of awareness of professional students related to short periods of apprenticeships has been borne in mind. When apprenticeships have turned into apprenticeships and those apprenticeships are really short, the schools will not inform Kela in time about them, when the student will receive the student's study allowance for that period and then it will be recovered later. These are such things that cause a lot of recovery for Kela and a lot of financial uncertainty for young people who are also studying for the profession. This is something that I think should be addressed. As far as these election promises mentioned by Mr Ikonen are concerned, there was an election panic in many parties before the parliamentary elections and those promises were hurled, hundreds of them there and hundreds of them here. Of course, the government must also remember that they will meet here in Parliament, that perhaps it would be better to be a little more careful about election promises. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u243	Mr President! This is where Mr Ikonen pointed out the income limits. In my personal life, I've funded my own studies completely... I have, of course, received that student money and had to take out a loan, but there was always a fear of being paid back because the income limits were so low. Since then, I have felt that income thresholds should be raised. It has also sometimes been a little argumented and justified by the fact that there are then stretches of studies. Well, for some students it is absolutely necessary to work for purely economic reasons, as I did, which means that otherwise I would not have been able to finance my studies, but I did not have any longer studies. So it doesn't always happen that if you're working, you're going to be a lot longer. Then there is also the fact that it is all right to work in some professions, because it gives you a little more experience in that profession and also has the ability to make progress in studying. In other words, having to work sometimes can even contribute to learning, as you get the skills there in practice. I very much hope that there will be a change in these income limits at some point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u244	Madam President! Maybe a word about the government making election promises. After all, the government itself has not made any election promises, but the elections were held on 14 April 2019 and the government was appointed on 11 June 2019 after a rather multi-stage government negotiation, and the Government Programme is a compromise that we in the centre are very pleased with. The student income limits were raised here and I would be prepared to look at them on a very large scale myself. Just like Mr Risikko, I have worked a lot of things during my studies, and as a family student in particular, it was absolutely essential to be able to do them. Many students have been faced with quite difficult problems when the time has come to pay for these student grants and may not have been able or even been able to take sufficient account of these income limits. I think that encouraging work during the course of our studies is a good direction. We can also prevent the extension of studies in such a way that there are certain obligations on the progress of studies, for example, a certain number of credits must be completed in order to obtain the study grant.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u245	Madam President! I thought here, listening to the debate on this government proposal, about the way I have promised students a living when I conducted the election. I agree that I have often wondered that students' livelihoods are not sufficient in all life situations. However, instead of promising the sums, I have drawn attention to the fact that the income of family students would improve during studies, and it is this government proposal that now increases the income of family students and has chosen a target group for this increase so that it can support a group better. If we were to spread the whole amount, it would be easy for those who most need it to be left behind. The increase in income limits always sounds attractive and good, and I myself believe that it would be justified to increase the income limits if the cashier were bottomless. However, when we are living in a government programme for sound economic policy, we have had to prioritise these objectives for the development of student aid. The increase in the income limits by half is estimated by Kela to cost 50 million per year, and the abolition of the income limit would cost 200 million per year, which means that we are talking about large price tags. However, more support should be given to doing work, and I fully agree with that, and so the study allowance should be more flexible, for example in apprenticeship training. It cannot be that a student’s livelihood is more difficult or at stake when working in a different environment than just in a school environment. It is precisely by developing apprenticeship training and ensuring that student support remains part of this change that we could increase the work of our students. I see that apprenticeships would also give us a practical approach to learning so that our students could get enough skills and get to work faster. I believe that student support is one way of facilitating employment and work or increasing the number of jobs during study, but I also hope that studies will be valued as work, because it is not appropriate that we keep sending out the message that, at the same time, we should also be able to work, because if someone shows up as a challenge for our young people, it is not appropriate. I hope that Parliament will pay particular tribute to the work that students have done, that is to say, to the study itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u246	Mr President! I will come back to this when I mentioned this question by Mr SYL and Mr SAMOK in my previous speech, and I will say here when the centre defended itself that they have not promised that quite true, the centre was not so much affected by this comment. I dug up these results from the survey: the student student student student student's student grant is currently EUR 250.28 per month, and in this survey of SYL and SAMOK, the SDP promised to raise it to EUR 336, the Left Alliance to EUR 351, the RKP to EUR 336 and the Greens to EUR 333, and the Greens even talked about a billion training to make a permanent investment in the field of education. In this light, these promises seem very distant at the moment. That is what I referred to in my speech earlier. Well, as far as working during studies and these income limits are concerned, I think that in some way we should make it more flexible. Just as Mr Risikko described here, I remember from my own studies that when you were able to work to a small extent, they did give you that important first job experience and then promoted employment after your studies. It is just as Mr Kemppi said that it is important that the main job for students has that study, but that it would be possible to build up experience and earn a small extra income alongside it, we should be better able to do so in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u247	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. — — — — The author of the bill, Mr Lohikoski, a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u248	Mr President! I have drawn up a legislative initiative which, through it, would strengthen equal opportunities for family carers to participate in municipal decision-making. In the initiative, I propose an addendum to section 82 of the Municipal Act that the costs of hiring a foster carer should be reimbursed for the duration of the municipal trust measures in the same way as the current municipal decision-makers are already compensated for the costs of hiring a babysitter for the duration of the meeting. I was encouraged to take this bill on the basis of public feedback. So I promised to take this up and make this a bill. So I got a call from a family carer who has been elected a delegate to his own municipality, but he is not always able to attend municipal meetings if he does not get a relative to replace himself at home as a guardian of a family member who is mentally ill. Regrettably, some municipalities refuse to replace the hiring of a substitute nurse because the current law does not oblige it. Mr President! The next municipal elections will be held in 2021, and the nomination of candidates will certainly begin next year in every party. In the present situation, if the candidate carer is elected to the Board of Governors, it is up to the municipality of residence to reimburse him for the costs of hiring a substitute carer. Some municipalities take into account the costs of hiring a substitute nurse as reimbursement of expenses and some do not. This has led in some places to the situation that the person elected to the council cannot, in practice, attend the council meetings because of his informal responsibility. It is therefore necessary to provide for a separate legal framework so that all family carers are in an equal position and, irrespective of their place of residence, the involvement of the family carer in the management of municipal trusts can be safeguarded. This is also the case in the Rights Week of the Child, because although a large proportion of family carers care for their elderly spouse or parents, there are also parents who care for their long-term ill or disabled child. It is important that parents who are their children's family carers also make their voices heard and have access to their views as part of municipal democracy. Family carers often have a lot of valuable information about the functioning of municipal services, so it is important to promote their ability to run and to work in municipal positions of trust. The majority of family carers are women, and the initiative is therefore, in a sense, also about ensuring greater democratic participation for women. Mr President! I am particularly pleased that the matter touched on fellow Members across party and group boundaries. I have received over 100 signatures from each parliamentary group. Together, we can fix this problem in the municipalities. Thank you for your strong support for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u249	Mr President! This is a welcome initiative. Family carers are doing a very valuable job in our society, and their social participation must be made possible. It is not only a matter of appreciation, but also necessary, because they bring experience expertise to the decision-making tables about the everyday life of care, and I very much welcome it, among other things, to the municipal councils in our country. That understanding is really needed there. The role of family carers must be supported anyway. In its alternative budget, the Coalition Party proposes that the use of vouchers be increased in order to allow statutory holidays for carers. One aspect of this initiative is that it is sometimes difficult for family carers to leave their own home. We also see it as a matter of taking days off, that often, if a relative has to be taken to a place of 24 - day care and suffers from severe dementia, it may interfere with everyday life for a long time thereafter. It is therefore very important to seek tailor-made solutions. The Coalition Party also suggests that the subsidised care leave could be piloted to enable its own close short-term care and, for example, hospice care. A working person must have the opportunity to stay in the care of the sick person in the case of a need for short-term care, such as hospice care. All in all, I think it is important that the work done by family carers is valued and well-conditioned, taking into account different perspectives and situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u250	Mr President! There are only four kinds of people in the world: those who have been carers, those who are carers, those who become carers, and those who need carers. Such wise words were written by a person named Rosalynn Carter. This initiative was easy to support. This is a very important small matter for the additions to the municipal law, so that family carers, as you said, Mr Lohikoski, can take part in the decision-making process. It is very important, because this question affects all of us and these people are doing such an enormously important care work in this country, doing humanly important care, but also economically important care, because this inevitably saves large sums of money for society as well. I hope this goes through. I believe, however, that this is not so much a major economic issue, but rather a really great hand-out to the carers, and that small things will make this situation easier, although it must be said in the same breath that there is much more to be done there. This is an excellent initiative and it is easy to support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u251	Mr President! The aim of this bill is to enable equal participation in municipal decision-making also for family carers. This is very important from the perspective of equality, because it is not right for the municipality of residence to influence whether or not to take part in municipal positions of trust. The involvement of carers would also be important because, at present, in society the voice of carers is too low. For example, family carers' day off arrangements have been arranged in very different ways in different municipalities, and this autumn the Family Care Association was working on this issue. The report pointed out that a large proportion of carers even leave their statutory leave because of the poor organisation of foster care. Now, of course, it also comes to this debate that, if – and hopefully – this bill goes through, it would also force us to think from a broader perspective about how to organise family care holidays and possible free time in the municipalities more quality and better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u252	Mr President! I also think that this initiative is quite excellent and, in fact, I wonder that I have not come across such an initiative before here, but I myself have worked for quite a few years in the administration of the Family Caretakers/Family Association and also as Minister of Local Government in the past. I do not remember this issue being raised. So it is very good that this is being raised here, and it tells us, of course, that across party boundaries it is thought that this is important and should be done. I personally think in that way that this is especially a question of each person's democratic rights. We have a lot of talk about equal opportunities for all to participate in decision-making at local and other levels, and if the family carer, who is so tied to the home at work, is limited to being unable to attend meetings for those few hours, that is an impossible situation. I would like to ask the author of the initiative one more time: Have there been any studies on this before, are there any written questions or have they been asked after the municipal law when this change would come into the municipal law? What has been answered in the past?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u253	Madam President! I myself — just as Mr Vehviläinen said there — have been quite a lot involved in these matters of family carers, and then we have both been the Minister of Local Government, and I must admit that this has not come up in that way. I think this is a very good initiative. I think not only that if this is corrected, I think that this is just such a question of justice and equality, given that childcare also has the cost of helping, let alone that this is also a matter of expenditure for the family carer. Fortunately, this debate also highlights once again the difficult situation of family carers, including the unequal status of family carers in which municipality they live, because when it comes to budget-related support, family care support, the reward varies depending on the municipality in which you live. In addition, it is very difficult to have days off because the relative who is being cared for does not necessarily want to go where the municipality would have offered, and these places in many municipalities are still missing. At the time, when I was a minister, good cooperation was made with Mrs Paloniemi when family care was added to support informal care, that is to say that it would be possible to take a relative to family care, for example, sometimes, but there are not too many of those places in the municipalities. I welcome the fact that the matter of family carers is raised from this point of view too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u254	Madam President! This bill is a very good one, and it is actually rather strange that no one has done this before. But better late than never. It is very important that family carers can also participate in municipal decision-making. This is a small matter for the municipality, but it is a big thing for family carers and Finnish democracy. The equal opportunity to participate in decision-making is very important. I have also noted, sitting there on the municipal council for a few years, that there is usually a lack of parents for young children. They can’t sit there at night when meetings start at five and six, so after a full day’s work they can’t leave and sacrifice that family time for trust. If, as a parliament, we could still have some effect on the fact that municipal council meetings and committee meetings are held during the day, during the daytime, I believe that it would also be possible for parents of more small children to join and then be able to participate in municipal decision-making. Good bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u255	Mr President! First of all, as a comment to Mr Juuso: a good point of view is that we can also help, by looking at these meeting times, so that, for example, family members, but also family carers, can then take a better part in the meetings. Thank you very much to Mr Salmonkoski for putting this initiative in motion. I'm glad to hear there's been so many signatories. In this debate, we have already heard with more ministerial experience that the aim of the initiative is very much to be welcomed, and it has already become clear in this debate how important it is that we ensure that family carers have access to decision-making and how the voice of family carers should be better heard in decision-making here in Parliament as well. It's great that we're talking about it now. Family carers do a really valuable job, which is also an affordable form of care for society, and just like a representative In his introductory speech, Mr Salmonikoski said that we care not only for the elderly but also for younger people and children. We appreciate the family carers in their speeches, and now we can prove that in practice, too, when we have this bill before us here. The Government is committed to developing informal care in its programme, and this would be one good step in that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u256	Madam President! I think that the initiative taken by Mr Salmonikoski is excellent and is also very well tied up when the municipal elections are coming and these issues should be resolved in order to ensure that democracy in our municipalities also works. I signed this bill myself because I felt it was important. In my opinion, there are two sources of income: firstly, this provision of sufficient resources for family carers to be able to cope with their work and become involved in municipal decision-making, just like all other groups of people. Secondly, taking care of the family-friendliness of municipal decision-making and developing it to this day, to 2020, to which Finland is about to turn. All in all, there are currently some 350,000 people caring for their family, of whom only about 50,000 are increasing this support for informal care. Family carers do human work in everyday life and secure adequate support and care for another person. I have also drawn attention to the fact that all too often we forget to thank you, to be honest with you. It's the least of the hard work they do in everyday life. According to the Government Programme, some EUR 5 million will be earmarked for the development of informal care next year as part of the Future Social Security Centre programme. It is intended that special attention be paid to family carers working during this period, because often this situation in life may also involve part-time working. EUR 65 million has been earmarked for the years 21 and 22 and then EUR 45 million thereafter. I consider these additions to be very good and welcome, because supporting informal care is not too much of a resource. Significant additions were also made in the last period, and this will then be followed up. The problem is that this money is not earmarked in municipalities. All too often I find myself wondering whether these millions of euros go to the development of informal care, because it is almost impossible to control it. I would also like us to discuss how these resources can be allocated precisely where they are intended to go. And as far as municipal democracy is concerned, I am very surprised that this issue has not yet been resolved. We are currently living in 2019, and yet family carers are actually shining away from our municipal councils and decision-making. There is also a lack of municipal councils, just as mentioned above, with families with children, parents and disabled people and elderly people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u257	Mr President! Thank you, colleagues, for a good debate. This has come with a lot of good perspectives for self-help and family care in general. I will return to this initiative as much as was asked what kind of background study has been carried out. The background study was conducted through the Parliamentary Information Service, and the question was what kind of compensation is granted or not granted in different municipalities. The end result was that it really varies. Some municipalities do not admit at all what message I had already received from the airport. I do not know whether there have been written questions or similar questions on this issue in the past, but I assume that they might have come up through the Parliamentary Information Service when I did this background check on this issue. To that extent, I think that Mr Juuso had a very good perspective on this participation of families with children in municipal democracy. I myself have been with a family of children three times in municipal politics and often wonder that in other municipalities meetings will be held earlier and they will be home before the children are asleep. I am a little jealous of the fact that it is possible for us too to have a meeting time a little earlier. It would make it easier. But the good thing for families with children is that municipal authorities, however, have the compensation for having a nanny, that it is possible to participate in such a way, unlike family carers. Let's fix this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u258	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Salmonikoski, for taking an important initiative. I signed this initiative myself. This is indeed a fair initiative, and I am surprised that this has not been realised in the past. In fact, I have only gone to municipal politics in the last election and I have not come across this issue there, and now that I have come across this, the first thing that came to my mind is that this has not actually been done before. Often, however, it is much easier for a child to find where to take the child, a grandmother or a grandpa or a friend. It is much more challenging to find a carer’s patient, so it seems crazy, in a way, that this matter has not been corrected in the past. However, I do disagree that it is very easy for families with children to join municipal politics in the final games today. We've got it. At least there are very many parents of more than one child in Kouvola. However, the situation is that in municipal policy, there are no more than ten municipal council meetings in many municipalities a year. Of course, if you are involved in more than one, but quite often the meetings of the government are then already in the daytime, which means that they are not all in the evening. Mr Salmonikoski's initiative is definitely supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u259	Mr President! Thank you very much to the author of the initiative, Mr Salmonkoski. The initiative is very much to be welcomed and to improve equality between people. And just as Mr Ikonen has said here, I am sure that we will now get those real experts involved in municipal policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u260	Mr President! It is true that the parents of young children, and in particular the single parents, are also underrepresented in municipal councils, but as was said here, the parents of small children are mentioned there in municipalities and are compensated for the provision of childcare, which is, in that sense, a better organised matter. Of course, we also need to think about those meeting times so that they can be better arranged for family members as well. If we look at the situation of carers and how in practice this involvement of carers could be organised as easily and painlessly as possible, I think that Mrs Risikko raised an important issue, namely that of family care. After all, this family care law also allows for home-care, and if I think about the situation of informal care, then it would probably be one of the best solutions for thinking that a family nurse would go home in such a situation, because it can be very difficult for that meeting to take that person to an intermediate place or a service house. All in all, if one can say a few more words about this family care, the government now wants to invest especially in supporting working relatives, that is to say, this is the specific target group. Even to Mr Kemp, who asked whether the money allocated to informal care goes where it is supposed to go, unfortunately it does not always go. The previous government also directed earmarked money for informal care, and now that the fate of that money has been little clarified and examined, unfortunately, there are many municipalities where that earmarked money was by no means directed where it should be. I am sure that this is a place for such monitoring and special monitoring, so that this will not happen in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u261	Mr President! It is a pleasure to hear in this Chamber that family carers are wanted to be heard. For 19 years I myself have been a family nurse for my child with severe disabilities, and I do have some experience of this — both in the service systems and in the way they work. I know that there are others in this Chamber, so that experience expertise can now be found in Parliament. I would have taken up a little of this problem mentioned by Mr Risiko about the fact that informal care is not always carried out. They will not come about when there are not enough of these sufficiently high-quality care facilities available everywhere. In fact, we come directly to this same problem line, which has now been both in the care of the elderly and in the housing of the disabled, both in the temporary and the longer-term, where these places have been competitive on the basis of price alone, and the situation is that people do not necessarily want to send their loved ones there. This brings us to the question of what should be discussed once again in this Chamber, namely whether we should have the most vulnerable services provided by the municipalities themselves. The private side works very well in some things, but here, while we are in a field like this, where most of the costs are made by employees' salaries, so then it is difficult to reconcile profit with profit. This is an interesting financial issue for family carers in that it really does not go where it should go, and that is what I myself, as a municipal politician, have been calling for. That is why I am extremely saddened when I hear in this Chamber that the money that amounted to 90 million a year during the last regime is going to be counted first to 60 and then to 45. I think that this is something that the Chamber could perhaps bring up again, because saving this is not very sensible. Then, as far as family care is concerned, I would say that it is extremely difficult to obtain it today. That's the problem with other customer groups too, getting family care. Finally, with regard to working carers, I would like to say quite briefly that it is expected that the work could be absent for three days on a paid basis, such as with a child under the age of 12, which would be a clear improvement for working carers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u262	Mr President! To the last speaker, it is true that there are many kinds of quality, but it does not always have to do with the ownership base. Good and bad, wolf and second are both public and private. Unfortunately, only if something happens to a private person will it be brought up, but when something happens to the public, it is no longer news, and yet there is much to fix. Then, where Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has taken it well, this legislation really makes it possible for the family nurse to go home. Then I also thought that if the person being treated has a personal assistant in accordance with the Disability Services Act, he can also be used. In other words, there is also a little point in using innovative solutions in that situation. Then I also agree with what Mr Rantanen said about the fact that there are no such places for family care. Then I also drew attention to the situation of working family carers, on which both Mr Rantanen and Mr Kemppi said. Yes, it is a very difficult situation, and that is why I myself have advocated a model such as a care-free model from Sweden. There is a practice in Sweden that you can be with your family for a short time. Well, there was such a law in Finland a few years ago, and it is the laws of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and it was done so that you can be with your family — not a baby but also your parent, for example — in such a situation that even if an elderly parent comes from a hospital for surgery and then needs help at home for a while, or in a situation of hospice for a short time. But in Finland, there is no support for it, but in Sweden it is, and it is paid through health insurance. I myself have advocated a correction to the Health Insurance Act, that you will receive health insurance support from the days you are taking care of your family, and I understand that there has also been support for this in the trio, that is, employees' associations, of course, because health insurance is very far from the workers' purse, which means that each of our salaries also goes to health insurance. This would allow us to think together that this kind of short-term care-free in accordance with the Swedish model would be available in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u263	Mr President! I listened to these comments with interest. We may have gone a long way from this actual legislative initiative, but I could not wait to speak. I wanted to show that I agree with Mr Rantanen when he commented earlier on these situations where disabled people have been put on the market to live in places that are no longer necessarily in the reputation of a homelike place or do not include the kind of services that relatives would like to offer to their loved ones. So this is what I wanted to comment on. To this initiative: Now, of course, it is interesting to see how this initiative has received the signatures of more than half of Parliament. Before I started writing this initiative, I also asked the Minister for Local Government how this could then be promoted. He did not see it in any way impossible to get this into the municipal law, but he was not yet able to comment on the timetable. I would like to thank in particular all those who have signed this initiative, and it was also nice to see that there was an opportunity to take part in this debate and also to express their support for those who did not have time to sign it. Let us now, together, ensure that this is not buried in the Administrative Committee. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u264	Mr President! I still had the idea of that speech by Mr Risiko when he mentioned that the Disability Services Act could be one such solution that would also enable the family member to participate, and it was that personal assistance. That is true, but then the disability service law is so problematic at the moment that it is now interpreted in very different ways in different municipalities. I myself have come across this different interpretation of memory disorders, for example. In international definitions, memory disorders are neurologically disabled, but we generally understand them as age-related diseases rather than neurological disability diseases, and this causes very few municipalities to receive transport services or personal assistance services under the Disability Services Act, even though we have the knowledge that this would allow them to live at home longer and would also allow the family member to receive help and support. Fortunately, I know that a complaint has now been made to the Ombudsman about one of these municipalities, which has completely denied the memory-deprived of these services under the Disability Services Act, and now we are waiting with interest to hear what the Ombudsman has to say on this matter. I think it might clarify this unclear situation in many municipalities, because people living in different municipalities are also in a very unequal position.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u265	Mr President! Perhaps you go a little far from this bill again, but I cannot help commenting on Mr Risiko's idea of this "närståendepening" påsvenska
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u268	Mr President! I wouldn't dare to prolong this conversation any longer, but I had to grab this. This was an excellent idea from Mr Risiko that such a thing could at least be considered, and just as Mr Juuso said, a hospice situation which we have a clear like this black hole, which now does not really get any support. With regard to this personal assistance with regard to the Disability Services Act: it also becomes a problem for people with mental disabilities, because there is a resource limit which is then interpreted as meaning that if a mentally disabled person cannot say for himself that he needs to change and feed and so forth, then they will not get it, so that in a way it may not be the case. Then I would have come back to this issue in terms of public and private: this is certainly the case, that there are problems in both, but in general I have turned this issue over to myself in such a way that if the day of care pays 100 euros as a municipal day and the municipality does not have to make a profit — that is to say, it is now a torn figure — and it is being put out of the hat to 80 euros and it still has to be won, then it is clear that when there is no other place to take that profit, it is usually staff and staff, either quantity or quality. Here we come into trouble when we should try to combine that victory and care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u269	Mr President! Just to say that it is quite true what you said about disability services, and I did not mean that it is as obvious as it is because, for example, people with mental disabilities and memory disorders in Finland do not think that they belong to it just like that. But it's okay if we get an interpretation of it now. Well, here we go. I fully agree that there have been excessive competitions in these competitions. That is why, for example, the Finnish Association for Mental Health strongly advocates that the procurement law should not apply in the same way to people with disabilities, especially persons with disabilities, and that is also the citizens' initiative. I think it is very important to assess what is being done, because always the quality side should be ahead of it. If the municipality outsources the municipality, it is up to the municipality to guard that quality, as the municipal law specifically says — I happen to know because I have been doing it myself or fixing it. That's what municipalities often rule out, so they don't watch it. They outsource, and when it is out of sight it is out of the heart. After all, we have seen here recently, when mops have been calculated as a dimension, that there is a very great deal of such a problem there, but it is both public and private. And now on this nursing leave: I would be very pleased if there were support for it in this House. I have explained that employees' organisations have also been in favour of this in public, so it could be done. It would not be a big change if we were to have one when that law already gives us a chance. The only problem is that there is no support for it yet. And when you think of it, just as Mr Juuso said, it has been in Sweden since the late 1980s and it has been well-known. After all, we have a professor at the Institute of Occupational Health — I do not remember the name now, unfortunately, the late professor who brought it here to Finland and has done a lot of research — who has done a great deal of work there. Now, if I could remember the name, I'd thank him in public for this, but I'll do it at some other point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-21-ps-68.u270	Mr President! I would just like to briefly express my support for this excellent legislative initiative by Mr Salmonikoski, which is therefore intended to facilitate the participation of family carers in municipal decision-making. I really think it is important that the right to these compensations is now provided for separately in municipalities, and I agree with what has been said in this explanatory memorandum to the bill that this is also important from the point of view of equality. Indeed, now that I understand that this bill has collected over a hundred signatures, I would like to say that, in such situations, it would be very important for the matter to proceed into legislation as well. - Thank you.
