ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 11/2019 vp, on the basis of the report. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 26 November 2019. In the debate, with the support of Lulu Rande Jani Mäkelä, Parliament has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 1, Heikki Vestman has proposed, supported by Sinuhe Wallinheim, that Parliament approve the statement of objection 2 and Peter Östman has proposed, supported by Sari Essayah, that Parliament approve the statement of objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u2	The first vote is against the proposal by Mr Vestman and then against the proposal by Mr Östman. Finally, we shall vote against the committee's proposal that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u3	The third item on the agenda is the election of certain members of the board of international relations and of the European Union Research Institute. The term of office of the elected members shall run from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2024. I note that the election is unanimous and that the following persons are elected by Parliament according to the list of candidates:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of one hour shall be reserved for the referral and the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u5	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to limit fireworks is very welcome. The citizens' initiative campaign has involved the Allergy, Skin and Asthma Federation... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u8	Mr President! The question of fireworks is bigger than maybe many people think. In this proposal, these major categories of F2 and F3 rockets would only be used by professionals. On the other hand, smaller, so-called ‘F1’ class, i.e. star-beam cones and these types, would continue to remain in free use. I'm the one who recognizes certain problems. For example, we have had a lot of eye injuries, but we have managed to get rid of them quite well because we have more glasses and today we have the majority of shooters and also spectators wearing safety glasses. In time, there were also different hand injuries, but luckily they have been made much different with good quality control I am very well aware of this problem and the pain caused by animals. I know many dog owners who are in very difficult situations at the time of these fireworks, and as a rider, I also know how many horse stables live in very tight, difficult moments at the time of these fireworks. There are many places where common agreements have found such a sense that, of course, no rockets have been fired, especially in the vicinity of horse stables or barns, but there have been exceptions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u11	Mr President! Shooting fireworks is an established way in Finland to celebrate the New Year, and they are especially relevant to children when we go out with family or neighbors to the open place to send rockets. Finland is such a sparsely populated country that many families with children living outside urban areas would not experience fireworks in full if the use of F2 and F3 fireworks by consumers were banned. Finland is already spoken of as a guardian society. Even under the current legislation, the consumer use of fireworks is very limited and their safe use is well instructed and protective equipment is readily available. The majority of fireworks are used safely, and there has been no sign of a worse turn. In Finland, about 30 million fireworks are sold annually to consumers. Compared to that, the number of injuries they cause is small. According to Tukes, at the turn of last year, rescue services received 60 alerts on fires, which were estimated to be the cause of the fire. There were seven fires of fireworks. The number of fires has decreased for three years in a row. According to Tukes, the Safety and Chemicals Agency, fireworks caused 13 eye injuries at the turn of last year, of which 3 were serious and 8 were moderate. According to Tukes' bulletin, the number of serious eye injuries has remained at the same level over the last five years. Only in 2016 the number of injuries was higher than average, which changes the average in recent years. If the number of eye injuries is to be reduced, it could be possible to make the use of protective glasses compulsory and to make their sale compulsory with fireworks. Most of Europe has the same practice with fireworks as in Finland today. There is no problem in banning them either: Ireland, for example, has been found, and Sweden is also preparing for an increase in the illegal import of fireworks. In this case, there is no guarantee of safe use of rockets or, in particular, safe use. If this precautionary principle starts by means of legislation on a large scale, there would be an endless number of other prohibited issues. For example, a person might suggest that bicycle driving is banned because the average number of deaths per year over the past three years has been 23 and nearly 700 injured cyclists. Of course, the citizens' initiative to limit the use of fireworks must be understood from the point of view that some pets are seriously hit by bangs, and this is a major disadvantage for many homes in this regard. It is therefore necessary to apply jointly for a contract procedure so that fireworks are not deliberately fired in the middle of a dense residential area, let alone in the vicinity of farm animal establishments. The irresponsibility of individual persons does not allow all things to be denied to the whole population, so we should also try to make reasonable decisions of this kind. For my part, therefore, I do not think it is necessary to adopt the initiative, but to allow families to continue to celebrate the change of year with rockets booming safely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u12	Mr President! The Citizens' Initiative on the Limits to Fire collected the names of the supporters required for parliamentary procedure in less than a month, and I am not surprised at the fact that the objectives of the initiative are good and worthy of support. The purpose of the initiative is to reduce the health, well-being and environmental damage caused by fireworks by limiting the use of fireworks in categories F2 and F3 during the transition period to professional use only, the damage caused by fireworks and the damage caused by them when they are generally related to consumer use. Since 2000, hospitals have treated 520-year-old partyers with eye injuries. 210 injuries have been suffered by viewers and 216 minors. One fifth of these injuries have been severe, leaving the victim with a permanent visual impairment. In recent years there has also been no decrease in the number of eye injuries with guidance. A large proportion of eye injuries are directed specifically at children and adolescents. Forty-two per cent of the injured are children and young people under 18 years of age. The initiative also provides for an annual cost of one and a half million dollars to deal with these eye injuries. Eye injuries are not the only injuries caused by fireworks; they also cause various burns, hand injuries and hearing injuries, as well as symptoms caused by fine particles, especially for long-term ills and children. In addition, property damage and fires are common, and various rescue tasks have doubled in the New Year. In recent years, rescue services have been alerted on average 120 times a year to a fire caused by fireworks or pyrotechnics. In addition to these disadvantages, fireworks are also a major disadvantage to our environment. We all know what nature looks like on the first day of the year. Every place is full of garbage. Even after the snow melts, there are traces of rockets and blank bombs that can still be found far into the spring. Mr President! Nor can this fireworks debate be conducted without talking about animals. Especially dogs have been raised in this debate, and on New Year's night in Vantaa, for example, the airport hotel offers accommodation for pet owners far away from the sound of rockets, and what is remarkable is that the hotel has been booked for a long time before New Year's. Dogs, however, are not the only animals who are stressed out by flashing and flashing fireworks. Hardly any domestic or productive animal or wild animal thrives in the sound and glare of rockets. It is extremely stressful for animals when a pound, blast, smoke, and the smell of powder appears on their own organ territory. At worst, this blast will continue for days when the time limits for the use of fireworks are not adhered to. For example, in breeding plants, intense fear can even cause pregnancy to be interrupted, and for these reasons alone, I think it is appropriate to limit the use of fireworks. In other Nordic countries, the use of fireworks is also restricted. In Norway, the use of rockets has been banned from private individuals since 2009, whereas other fireworks are permitted there. There, too, the prohibition was justified by personal injury and fire. In Sweden, for the first time this year, a permit is required for all fireworks with a stick. For my part, I would like to thank the active organisations for the well-prepared citizens' initiative and, as it says, I am in favour of restricting the use of fireworks. I believe that restricting the use of fireworks will not prevent us from celebrating the New Year either. Now is just the time to come up with alternative ways of celebrating like shooting that $20 million in the sky. Last year I was very pleased with the choice of Espoo, where the rockets replaced the laser show. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u13	Mr President! I, too, thank you for this citizens' initiative and for being able to hold a debate here in Parliament on a subject that addresses a lot of people, both animal owners and all of us, during the New Year. I myself have been working as a night nurse for years, and my pace of work was that I worked either for Christmas or for New Year’s. I remember working for seven years in the New Year's, or seven in the Christmas season, got a choice. I know what these New Year’s nights have been like for the elderly in hospitals and nursing homes. I think it is important that we also remember the person and we remember the elderly and those in care facilities, because fireworks also have an impact on their night and peace of mind. It has even been those nights that old people thought that war was born. It is important that we have a debate — including on animal welfare — on the issue of cats and dogs. This initiative is strongly supported by animal welfare organisations. I would also like to highlight the natural animals, the birds and all those that we do not necessarily see there in the stands, as well as the other dangers, i.e. eye injuries and other injuries in general, as well as the fact that a fireworks rocket, as well as a match, is dangerous in the hands of a child. It is important that we remind you of the use of protective glasses at the time of New Year, as glasses can prevent these injuries. The big ones above, the little ones behind: if that adult goes to shoot those rockets, then remember to put those goggles on his nose. It is good that we are talking and discussing and discussing this important issue in a complex debate here, then we can state the positions that we are doing. After all, every man has that sense in his own hand, where he shoots those rockets. There is also a risk of a fire: single - house dwellers are at great risk of rockets flying into the roof structures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u14	Mr President! Thank you to the authors of the initiative, here are many unions and associations behind a well-established initiative. In other words, it is not the intention to ban fun and fun, and I would not like to prevent people from celebrating, for example, the New Year. As far as the Venicers are concerned and the rockets are concerned, I might wonder if it is necessary to shoot them. I would say to Mr Niiko that as far as shooters are concerned, safety glasses have been mandatory since 2009, and it is very good that this is the case. Of course, not everyone remembers to use them. As far as the public is concerned, rockets are being fired at other people. I'm done running around on New Year's Eve because I've had to protect my eyes in the middle of a rocket attack. I've been a summer firefighter, and I've been working in the fire department in my day, so I've seen that side of it. So professional use is OK, let's do it professionally, let people enjoy parties, community. Laser shows and such alternative ways, what came here earlier, are worth taking forward and developing. Animals have already been mentioned, it is a big nuisance for farm animals and pets. If humor is allowed, then for small birds I am a little frozen, but I am also defending their right to a peaceful environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u17	Mr President! Fireworks are a very old tradition. Fireworks have already been made in China since the Han Dynasty, and Marco Polo is known to have brought gunpowder from there to Europe, and even here in the Middle Ages these fireworks have been used in various solemn occasions. In Finland, fireworks in particular have been established as a tradition related to the reception of the new year, as in many other countries around the world. Very good speeches have been made here during the debate, and this security argument is very important to me too. I can well understand that, for example, in the centers of cities, where the New Year is spending a lot of people and where, for example, the professional fireworks offered by cities are truly spectacular, it could well be justified — and as many cities have done — to limit the number of private fireworks. Then I think about the fact that in rural areas where on the one hand there are no large audiences who could then face this danger of fireworks and, on the other hand, small rural communities, for example, do not organise big fireworks, so is it right to deny these people this tradition and custom that has long been associated with New Year's celebrations and that has been passed on from generation to generation? Mr President! So I really want to emphasise this aspect of people's security myself. I cannot say here that what is right or wrong is certainly important for the committee to have a good debate on this. There are many different aspects to this. One aspect that has been raised here in previous speeches is that fireworks come from China, which clearly weakens our trade balance. If families can then develop new New Year’s reception methods, such as a domestic wood-made candle or otherwise so that this element of fire, which has always fascinated a person, is involved in it, then what about it — traditions can also be renewed. But it is true that fireworks are also a tradition for many families, and in this respect it is certainly for Parliament to consider this carefully. Mr President! One more aspect: The functioning of Veikkaus has been strongly criticised in Parliament, and I believe that Veikkaus is now seriously reducing the number of slot machines. This will also have an impact on the winnings and on the extent to which the winnings can be used to support sports clubs, for example, who are doing extremely valuable work to move children and young people. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u20	Mr President! I think that the citizens' initiative to limit the use of pyrotechnic articles in categories F2 and F3 is a good proposal because I believe that this would have more positive than negative effects. Above all, I would like to thank the authors of the initiative and also the signatories for this very thorough citizens' initiative. There has really been a great deal of effort, a lot of work done on this initiative. Personally, I like to watch fireworks, and in very many families with children, it is of course a pleasure to enjoy rockets in New Year’s Eve. Therefore, limiting their use creates conflicting feelings. Nevertheless, I welcome the initiative because it does not stop fireworks in New Year's — possibly as a result of the change, public fireworks may even become more common. And these F1 products will continue to be allowed for private use. The disadvantages of fireworks listed by the citizens' initiative are obvious. Eye injuries and other dreams aren't a laughing matter. Above all, they are bad for people, and unfortunately there will also be an expense for society. For many animals, changing a year is a bad nightmare and not only the suffering of animals but also the suffering of the owners and possibly the cost. And the amount of fireworks waste — that is also a fact. Also in the new year, alcohol raises the risks associated with fireworks, and compliance with the related rules and safety practices may be more easily forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u23	Mr President! As Mr Heinonen said earlier, there will be a joint fireworks organised by the city in some large cities, such as my own home town. There's a really great fireworks in Lahti every New Year's Eve at 8:00. There are many families, and even lonely ones, to watch in the city hall park. It's really great that you don't have to spend your own money on these things and still see a really great fireworks. But it is understandable that not every city can afford this, nor can there be a place where such a thing can be arranged. I wouldn't exactly go denying these fireworks to private individuals. Of course, you have to have reason in your head and control that you don't shoot drunk and you don't give them to kids and you wear goggles. But I wouldn't go out and deny all the fun and tradition. In my opinion, a new year without rockets would be like Christmas without ham or a Christmas tree. That it's all right. Even when you were a kid, you always expected those rockets to come and shoot. Even their own children liked that when New Year’s came, rockets were fired on the yard. I don't see any laser show replacing this. It is a bit of an artificial tradition, then, to shoot some light into the sky otherwise, when there is no sound of such a live explosion. This has been the case for many generations, and I hope that this will continue, but of course there must be reason at that end. As Mr Autto said about this, this is a very important source of income for many youth sports organisations. Even in Lahti, the parents of junior hockey players are practically everywhere selling these rockets, and thus junior hockey gets a lot of money and money and is able to run it so that parents don’t have to collect that money. Not everyone has that much to put in their own bag. Then we can take advantage of this. There was talk of eye injuries. They're really bad cases. Fortunately, there is a need to use protective glass. But then, even thinking of New Year’s Eve, it may be that there are more eye injuries in restaurants than there were when rockets were fired out there. Then let us think of electric motors, which have increased much today. Here in Helsinki, you can rent them from the street. Trampolines, where they drop and here. In his own speech, Mr Lindén will then tell us how many of these will be injured a year, and they will not be banned either. Of course, animals fear them once a year. I had my own dog, which I already taught you from a puppy to make noise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u28	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank you for this important citizens' initiative that we have received here for Parliament's consideration. This, like all other citizens' initiatives, deserves a valuable and thorough discussion. I do not want to be that unspeakable ass aunt right now, and I would not be happy in principle to limit people's freedom and joy, but almost 20 years of experience as a paramedic in an ambulance brings its own nuance to the matter. Every new year, some people get seriously hurt by fireworks. The citizens' initiative contains a thorough record of eye damage caused by fireworks, which has also been mentioned here since the year 2000, i.e. an average of approximately 27 patients per year. And as many as 42% of the disabled are children and young people under 18 years of age. Unfortunately, for example, these provisions on protective glasses have not removed these eye injuries. In addition, fireworks cause various degrees of burns, among other things. And the worst thing is that quite a few people believe that it could happen to themselves that fireworks become a serious lifelong disability, which then, for example, the case of a young person limits the rest of his life in career selection, among other things. And now I apologise in advance to all the Members of the House for the next sentence, in which I regret to say that alcohol, fireworks and other things do not fit together. Fireworks also cause about a hundred fires every year, which means that it is not cheap for property either. And last but not least, I bring up the animal stress of this unstoppable pound around New Year’s. Every year, dogs get scared, run away from their owner and run under a car when they get scared. Of course, it is always possible to ask why animals are not inside when they are pounding, but when they cannot be held there for many days when the pound continues and continues. And it would be unintelligent to think that dogs would be inside for several days. Then it is necessary to bring up the idea already before us that why should a person shoot money in the sky? We have plenty of people who struggle with the adequacy of money in their daily lives, but then, in practice, the last money is shot in the sky to make children happy. Could this not be managed in an organised way so that local authorities, communities or clubs can delight people with fireworks? It would win all: no eye injuries and burns, no fires, no runaway dogs, and a limited time of pounding and money saving — the situation would therefore be excellent. Mr President! By the way, Norway has banned fireworks on these same grounds already in 2009 and they still know how to have fun. I've witnessed it with my own eyes many times. Those Norwegians can do it. We went to Norway with the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I have to say at this point that they also have a minimum sentence of three years for rape. But something has to be done about this in this Parliament too, and I hope that if it is not this adoption of the citizens' initiative, someone else will be able to reduce these disadvantages. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u29	Mr President! I too would like to thank all those who have signed up to the citizens' initiative and particularly those who have taken this initiative. There has been an unusually long search for different arguments for this from different groups, and this is very good information for us parliamentarians too. Not all of these figures are by heart, but on the contrary. Representative Rantanen well pointed out the point of view of paramedics from there, how he has seen in everyday life how people get hurt. I myself was thinking of taking this animal perspective because I have had dogs all my life, and I have also been a rider and a horse owner, and I have spent quite a lot of time in the summer and winter on farms, so I know a little about the animal situation that had been well covered in this initiative as well. For example, if I was thinking here — I was looking at Hippos ’ statistics — there are 74,400 horses and 16,000 horse stables in Finland, and in their vicinity, if there is a drink, it is really challenging to calm down that situation. The horse is not the kind of animal you can take inside and turn on the music, which means you have to arrange special arrangements in the garage. It starts by taking the horses in on time, earlier than normal, arranging for them to have snacks, putting music there, and hoping that no one — the goofy head of the horse — will come to the corner of the stable, because then the horses will beat themselves very easily. It has sometimes been read in the media that they have come right through the stalls and fences. The horse is also such that it may be frightened in similar situations for many days. And then, when there are hours, for example, when a child goes riding, the horse may then be quite shy the next few days, and anything can happen. Then, when I've had dogs, I'm glad I have a situation where I can escape. Every new year, the dogs and I go to the cabin. There's nothing out there. I can't be home with dogs. They're really nervous. We have a field nearby, and all night there is so much shaking that we actually have windows shaking at home, even there can’t sleep. And I wonder if there could be certain areas in urban areas — if this is not completely restricted — where you can shoot, for example, a certain park in the city that is not close to residential buildings. Then, for example, dog owners would know that it would happen and stay there, and then they would be able to avoid it, but it would not be very close to buildings. Then again in rural areas I understand that not everyone has the opportunity to do this, so there could be certain protection areas near these horse stables and farm animal shelters. Of course, it would take a lot of action and drawing maps. Somehow you wonder if people don’t have enough brains to understand that it was any day — all working days and so forth — that it’s not going under people’s windows anyway. Can't you go any further? Can't you protect yourself? I was thinking about this patronizing that I would not want people to be patronized, and somehow I would like people to take responsibility for what they do. But personally, I am not quite prepared to ban this completely as strictly as is the case with this initiative, although I am really worried about animals and children in particular. But that there would be these certain areas in urban areas where one could shoot, and then in rural areas certain protected areas. I understand now that if anyone has 10 hectares of land and forest, he must now be able to shoot the rocket in his own field so that I do not go to deny it. But thank you again to those who have taken the initiative, this is a very important issue and I hope that the committee will take a good look at this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u30	Mr President! What is confusing in this debate is, above all, the fact that the coalition often presents itself as a liberal party, but now many members of the coalition have been here restricting the right of families to decide what they can spend their money on and how they can celebrate the New Year. It is quite clear that everything will never be safe, even if we make decisions here, but it is good to be aware that fireworks are safe when used properly. Similarly, it is well to be aware that already local authorities and cities have the right to decide and limit fireworks on their territory, and, as was mentioned in the previous speech, there are a number of reasons why such restrictions are appropriate. However, I personally believe that 64,000 people cannot be taken away from more than 5 million people, and that is why I see that this initiative must be rejected with determination. [Erkki Judge-in-Chief] In this debate, it is also frightening whether anyone is genuinely thinking about the children of rural areas. On New Year’s Eve, are the children told in the village of Loka that they are now driving 50 miles [80 km] to Sodankylä to watch fireworks and then back from there? Or at Sevettijärvi that there's a 200-mile drive back, that the children can go to the Ivalo municipal centre to watch fireworks? Representative Lehto made it very clear that dogs should also be taught these sounds, loud noises, surprising sounds, and that is the responsibility of the owners. It also became clear in the debate that now, under the age of 18, fireworks are already banned from children under the age of 18.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u31	Mr President! I did not ask for a reply to Mr Lehdo's speech, although he did beg for it, because he was asking for it. I do not know whether I am going to disappoint him or anyone else when I do not take this issue very formally or strongly on either side or side. I believe that good speeches have been heard here by colleagues who have highlighted the diversity of this issue. Although it is a serious matter, I can tell you from the blood of it that when, for the first time in the spring, I was a candidate for Parliament after a long career and met thousands of people on more than a hundred occasions, I did not get a special reception for my parliamentary work on the question of how to deal with fireworks. Well, there were a lot of other things that we had to eat. But seriously: of course, my own work experience in hospitals strongly advocates that too many of these injuries continue to occur. I believe that this has been examined in a variety of ways. On the other side are these injuries, the different types of disturbances that arise, the suffering of animals, the costs involved, the littering of the environment, and on the other side, the word ‘ilofires’, a sense of community experience with long traditions,and the differences between rural and urban areas,as has been the case. With regard to this card, China, I would not be placing any particular emphasis on the fact that these are now such a large trade deficit for us that it is a particular argument here. I hope that this initiative will receive due consideration, as I am sure it will. I am more in favour of restriction, but not entirely in favour of banning it. Surely we will go through this in a variety of ways and then make wise decisions here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u32	Mr President! There have already been many important arguments in this debate. I'm not gonna repeat them. I would just like to say that, firstly, this citizens' initiative does not contain a ban on the use of all fireworks for public use, but only for categories F2 and F3, when these are, as it were, firepower, or how it would be expressed, the lightest category of fireworks, category F1 fireworks, would then be sold. I think the initiative is very well-founded. I do not wish to comment on whether the restrictions which I am in favour of should be just what is proposed in this citizens' initiative, or in some other way, but I do not think that the fact that damage is done to us every year — and one third of the damage to our eyes, for example, comes to children and young, underage people, which affects their entire future lives — means that these things must be taken seriously. In my opinion, it is perfectly justified in cities that fireworks are the responsibility of the city. As far as rural areas are concerned, I would think, for example, that, once you have demonstrated that you understand safety considerations, you can have the right to use more than these F1 fires, and then it would be easier to ensure that those people who use fireworks actually understand the risks. I also think that the right option for cities, especially in order to save the environment, is to find out these alternatives, such as the laser show. In this debate, many have called for tradition. I just checked online to see that the average age of MPs is 47 years. Perhaps in that age group this has been quite common in my childhood, but I can say that it was not common in my childhood that ordinary people would buy fireworks and then flash them. The city of Tampere, for example, had fireworks, but this tradition is now perhaps two generations long, so there is no long Finnish national tradition at stake, and all traditions change when times change and knowledge improves.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u33	Mr President! As an initiative, the citizens' initiative is welcome to launch a debate on this issue, and so it can be said that as a dog and horse enthusiast this has always been the case in New Year's. Representative Meri here well described what it can do at its worst. I would say, however, that hereditaryly, a dog with a drink never learns to tolerate a drink and, especially in the service dog hobby, it is an important thing that a dog should not be a blank. There breeding is used to prevent such an inherited tendency from one generation to the next. In any case, we currently have certain time limits for fireworks, and at least for myself, I can tell you that when horses were still part of life, they were taken into the stable well before 6 p.m., when it was known that the little boys or girls in the neighborhood could not always demand that time, but would start early. There are village communities where it has been very good to take advantage of the fact that there is a family-centred event held somewhere in the village community and then gathered there. It is a great event for the village community in New Year's Eve, when they gather and take their own fireworks there early in the evening, and those who do not have the opportunity can enjoy that community. Well, it may be a good example of how this should be handled. The municipalities have the opportunity to limit it, and I would hope that, when this initiative is dealt with — and I am sure that it will be carried out in depth and in accordance with the practice of the Parliament — it will not be possible to continue to impose a total ban. The disadvantages that have been identified in this initiative are beyond doubt. And I wouldn't rule out cats or other animals. We easily stop at this dog and horse talk, but we do have other pets and useful animals who suffer from this. In this context, however, I would like to see this looked at in such a way that the government should be given a firm opportunity to develop legislation in such a way as to enable local authorities to do — or else it would be made clear that there are no suitable fireworks, which are loud, and of course not possible, in the immediate vicinity of animal shelters. I believe that, when we look at this matter as normal, there will be a point where sports clubs, Mr President, will also react to the fact that what about our income from the sale of fireworks: who will replace it? Well, there are always losers and winners when legislation is made. But this is a complex question: how much joy is brought, how much else can the community be organized and what is the history and how much tradition is there in this? Unfortunately, for my part, I remember a few of my peers who lost a thumb or had an eye injury when they couldn't afford to buy those fireworks, but then there in the garage they were working on their own bombs to bring color to that New Year's reception. Mr President! However, I hope for a thorough and good debate on this, and I hope that the report will come here in this Chamber and in its form that this Parliament will be able to agree with it. It would be constructive and forward-looking in such a way that, for pets and useful animals, even more responsible use of fireworks could be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u34	Mr. Speaker! I would like to thank all the organisations and people involved in the preparation of this initiative and those who have signed it, because I consider this to be a very necessary and good initiative, and I hope that it will get a positive reading and will also lead to a result. This is not a total ban. Yes, safely organized fireworks continue, and we can all enjoy them, but this is the one that will increase the safety and well-being of all of us, not forgetting animal welfare either. I thank Mrs Myllykoski, who was the only one who mentioned cats. Dogs and horses are important, but I would be happy if Mr Kärnä had asked him in the Chamber for advice on how to train cats to accept and deal with this kind of banging, but let him stay for another time. That's a good initiative. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u35	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u36	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u37	Mr President! When you first look at this initiative, it unfortunately comes to mind that it is now time to ban everything, so there is no need to be in denial of individual little things at a time. However, citizens' initiatives are important and need to be sought to find the things they are trying to influence, the things people have been concerned about and the reasons why they have been collecting signatures on this initiative. I fully agree that, of course, the damage to the eyes caused by fireworks is a serious matter, and there should be fewer. The fires they can cause are a serious matter, there should be fewer. The good thing about this is that, in my view, as attitudes improve and people's awareness increase, these issues, the mild phenomena, have also been reduced. And, of course, it is clear that the timetables for fireworks should be better adhered to, and compliance with them should be better monitored. Also, restrictions on fireworks in urban areas have been quite effective in the centers of many cities, leaving room for those fireworks somewhere else. Personally, I think that one-night bang in this country can fit in as it stands, and I would not go along with such a total ban. But surely all these precautions, the use of protective equipment and the like should be sharpened to people at least at the level of attitude education, if not by legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u38	Mr President! So we're talking about restricting fireworks. This is such a thing that has both sides, as is the case with all other matters. There is safety and then there is the fact that people, or mainly those who take the initiative now, who are animal friends, say that animals are suffering from this. That is unfortunate. Maybe it's a tradition. What I myself would like to draw attention to is that I think that those who sell those fireworks here should make sure that they are not sold to minors and that they are under good control in Finland at the moment. What is important is that the parents who then buy these give it to the children themselves partly and have to take care of and be convinced that none of the underage children who may be given fireworks by their parents, contrary to the rules, will lose sight or eyesight. This is such a wish, of course, that the law would be restricted. On the other hand, it is indeed a long tradition that this has always been the case. But briefly, the responsibility of parents and those who sell and buy rockets and give to children must also be borne by them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u39	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 12/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u40	Mr President! Report 12/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health Parliaments will discuss the Government's proposal 64/2019 Parliaments. The proposal proposes a number of non-related amendments to the employment pension legislation which complement and specify the legislation related to the employment pension reform that came into force from the beginning of 2017. The amendments proposed in the proposal relate to the reform of the labour income of the Health Insurance Act, the determination of the last pension institution, the negotiation procedure for an invalidity pension solution, the failure to provide occupational pension insurance and the employment earnings qualifying for pension, the right of recourse under the Employment Pensions Act from an operator in accordance with the Railway Liability Act, the acquisition of health data for the purpose of handling the pension case and the determination of the cost shares of the Pension Insurance Centre. The proposed changes are mainly to clarify implementation. The proposal proposes to amend the provisions of the Employment Pensions Act on the calculation of the right to a pension from unpaid periods during which a person has received sickness or parental allowance or rehabilitation allowance paid by the Social Insurance Institution. The changes are based on the reform of the Health Insurance Act, which will enter into force from the beginning of 2020. As a result, the current concept of work income will be removed and the daily allowance benefit will be based on the applicant’s annual income. Under the current employment pension legislation, the pension is accrued on the basis of the earned income that has been the basis of daily allowance benefits. The labour income reform will affect the income on which the future pension is based and how the pension is accrued during unpaid periods. According to the proposal, the entitlement to a pension during these benefits is calculated on the basis of the annual income under the Health Insurance Act. The right to a pension requires that the annual income includes at least the minimum wage income or entrepreneurial income required by the employee’s pension law. In order to avoid an increase in earnings-related pension expenditure, the coefficients used to determine the weight of annual income in the calculation of the pension are amended. Changes to employment pension laws will slightly increase average pension accumulations among those receiving the lowest daily allowances and will decrease the pension accumulation calculated in accordance with the current law for those receiving a slightly higher daily pension supplement. The Committee welcomes the proposal to include in the Workers' Pensions Act a provision that does not increase the pension for an employee in situations where the employer has systematically failed to fulfil its obligations to take out pension insurance and the employee has known that there has been negligence and that his actions have allowed him to fail. In these circumstances, the employee has also avoided paying the employee’s earnings-related pension insurance contribution. The aim of this provision is to combat the shadow economy. It is proposed that the employee’s pension laws be amended to include the employee’s employee’s contribution-based dividend from 2021 onwards in the earnings on which the pension is based. The provision provides the basis for the pension of dividends and surpluses distributed to shares or shares in a limited liability company and a cooperative which are subject to the provisions of the Income Tax Act. A dividend based on the contribution of a non-member is already considered to be the earnings of the person whose labour input is the basis of the employee’s pension law. A similar amendment to the Health Insurance Act is also proposed. The committee considers the proposed amendment to be justified. After the amendment, labour input taxes would be treated more uniformly as they would be treated in the same way in taxation and in the application of the Employment Pensions Act and the Health Insurance Act. The committee notes that under the Employment Pensions Act work is insured and earned. In principle, any consideration paid on the basis of work shall be taken into account as a pension. The pay-as-you-go rate is based on work, i.e. it is paid in the form of a dividend. The committee considers that there are no grounds for excluding a particular individual job-based performance from occupational pension insurance. According to the impact assessments of the Government's proposal, the consideration of labour-based dividends in exchange for work and the inclusion of reading in the earnings on which the pension is based will extend the scope of the pension schemes and increase the amount of insured wages. The Committee stresses that the provision proposed for the pension laws of an employee to read the labour-retirement rate for the earnings on which the pension is based applies only to persons who fall within the scope of those laws. Dividend paid to an entrepreneur falling within the scope of the Entrepreneur's Pensions Act does not continue to be due to the employee's Pensions Act. According to YEL, an entrepreneur refers to a person who does gainful employment without being in an employment relationship or in a relationship governed by public law or other public law. From the perspective of employment pension legislation, a person always works either as an entrepreneur or as an employee. The proposed changes have no impact on the labour input balance to be paid to an entrepreneur falling within the scope of YEL. The committee considers it appropriate that the proposal specifies the provisions of the Employment Pensions Act concerning the right of the pension institution to receive medical data for the purpose of resolving the pension case. However, as a general rule, the applicant will continue to provide information on his or her health as a matter of priority. It is also proposed to include in the Employment Pensions Act provisions on the disclosure of information between the pension institution and the person liable for compensation under the Railway Liability Act. The proposal also proposes to clarify the provisions of the Employment Pensions Act on applying for a pension in such a way that the pension must be applied for from the pension institution by means of an application containing the information content necessary for the settlement of the pension case established by the Finnish Centre for Pensions. The Committee notes that if pension applications are to contain information which can be considered sensitive to the purpose of the Constitutional Committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn particular attention to the need to limit the processing of sensitive information to what is necessary by means of precise and precise provisions. The committee proposes to amend Sections 101, 91, 86, 103 and 106 of the first draft law, so that the information content of the application is limited to the information necessary to resolve the pension application. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u41	Mr President! Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health The Vehviläinen comprehensively presented both this government proposal and the committee's position on these details of the employment pension laws. Mr President! I have no direct comment on these details myself. I also agree with the committee's position. On the other hand, I am pleased to say that the committee now has the opportunity and time to take up another issue, on which there is also a bill on the committee table: a bill signed by ten Members of Parliament on the amendment of the indexation of occupational pensions. In this respect, I would like to say that when we deal with the occupational pension scheme, that is, where Mrs Vehviläinen has just presented the committee's position that occupational pension is the only statutory old-age pension in Finland — and it must now be identified. We often have a delusional debate when we are having a debate here in the Chamber, even now, for example, on raising and raising national and guaranteed pensions. It is under pressure, it must be done, great, it is included in the Government Programme and also in these budget proposals, but the national pension and guarantee pension are not old-age pensions in Finland but basic security. 80% of people receiving a full national pension are under 65 years of age. 98% of Finns over the age of 65 receive an employment pension — that is the statutory old-age pension. Mr President! I am pleased that the committee will hopefully take this bill into consideration, but the problem is that pensioners, i.e. people over 65 years of age, are the only group of income recipients in Finland, the only group of income recipients whose income is legally reduced in relation to median income and is impoverished. For this, thank you for the index, which was approved in 95. In that respect, I hope that the committee will take careful note of this. This bill contains a proposal for a mid-term index and its implementation within a ten-year deadline. In ten years' time, its price impact on our pension system will be EUR 1 billion according to the calculations of the Finnish Centre for Pensions. From these we see that it does not, in fact, materially affect the accumulation of pension funds. They are growing by an average of EUR 8 billion per year, which has been going on for 25 years, which means an increase of EUR 7 billion. We have the resources to help these pensioners, to put an end to this cycle where they are, that is to say, the statutory fall in their income levels. I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will now get to grips with this aspect of our occupational pension system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u42	Mr President! The proposal itself is widely supported, as the chairman of the committee presented it above. But now that Mr Kiljunen has extended this to pensioners who are now receiving earnings-related pensions, of course, we cannot fail to return to the speech of the current Prime Minister Rinne, who promised every Finnish pensioner less than EUR 1,400 100 in a clean hand. And quite a few pensioners, by the way, believed this promise and went to vote for the Social Democrats and to ensure that Rinte became Prime Minister. But what happened? The board of directors on the slope is giving senior citizens tens, if that's the case. The Coalition Party supports the continuation of the increase in the guarantee pension, as we did last season with the city centre in the government, several times we raised the guarantee pension. And it is right that it should also be raised during this reign. And a small EUR 34 increase is now being made on the national pension. But, of course, Mr President, they are far from the EUR 100 promised by Rinne. We then have those who receive these pensions, a larger pension, i.e. those who receive a pension of EUR 1000 and EUR 1400, in Finland as a whole about 400,000. And some of them still get tails for this increase, but they are no longer euros, not dozens, and they are not even close to raining euros. And then we come to this group, which is between EUR 1300 and EUR 1400 for pensions, for which Rinne also promised to bring EUR 100. They will not, Mr President, get that promised cent of May Day, not the euro, not a cent, and there will be 90,000, or nearly 90,000, of these deceived pensioners. And I understand their disappointment in this situation. And now Prime Minister Rinne has also suggested that you could cut pensions for other pensioners in order to correct him, or to fulfill his May Day promise that as much as 300 million would be removed from the earnings-related pension scheme. There is no such money, as many experts have said. In fact, no expert has been found who has come to say that this kind of money can be removed from it to finance Prime Minister Rinte's election promise. It is not, by the way, and if it is removed, it means worse pensions for our children and those who are currently working and they are being paid. So I hope in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u43	At the very least, the previous speaker spoke at the beginning of this debate. ♪ Just now ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u44	Mr President! As I said, the representative: The issue presented by Mrs Vehviläinen regarding the specific reforms of the occupational pension system is a good one and I strongly support it. But Mr Heinonen's speech was interesting, and I am very pleased that Mr Heinonen has taken this issue of May Day, you call it May Day. This was therefore an increase of EUR 100 to pensions below EUR 1400. I'm glad you're in favour of it. You're behind it seriously. And it is great that you also understand the problem, which is that increases in national and guaranteed pensions will never achieve the EUR 100 target.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u47	Mr President! Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health This report by our committee was well presented by the Vehviläinen. In this proposal, it is proposed to amend the employee's pension law, the entrepreneur's pension law, the agricultural entrepreneur's pension law, the seamen's pension law, the public sector pension law, the Pension Protection Centre Act, the Employment Pensions Appeals Board Act and the Health Insurance Act. Technical specifications related to the 2017 pension reform are proposed, inter alia, to the Employment Pensions Act. A good debate on pensions and the status of small pensioners was started here, and the Finns of Finland also remind us of this May Day in Rinte.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u52	Mr President! I have also presented this report very carefully just now because, when this matter was in the referral debate, Mr Pekonen was reproached here by the fact that he was not presenting this issue and there was a little — if I may say so — a slightly confusing debate, perhaps, that what this is all about. So I say that that is why I did it so thoroughly just now. But then I will go to two more points, if the President will allow me. First of all, this autumn the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has indeed dealt with this increase in guarantees and national pensions and it affects pensions there up to EUR 1300. Indeed, as Mr Kiljunen, who is well aware of pension matters, pointed out, we have two separate systems or indeed three: the national pension system, the guarantee pension scheme and the occupational pensions. And the question is how can we look at the smallest occupational pensions as well? Because we well understand that they are also small. There are also such unreasonable fees, especially for services, if you are very ill. That is why, at least personally and in the centre, we understand this debate also with regard to these small occupational pensions. I would also like to say that a very clear entry has been made in the Government Programme, and if you don't mind, I will quote it quickly here. In other words, it says: ‘Initiate a three-pronged survey on howto improve the status of those with the lowest earnings-related pensions within the occupational pension scheme. As part of this study, ways of raising occupational pensions below EUR 1400 by a net amount of EUR 100 without increasing occupational pension contributions will be explored.’ Now, as the centre's position, I would like to point out that I think it would be good to have a rather controversial public debate on this subject, that this study should be carried out quite quickly, so that we know whether this is possible or not. Then I would also like to say that, of course, the government itself also has the means to make things easier for these small pensioners, even for those who are retired. I would like to refer again to this bill on customer fees, which has not been passed on to many governments. I think it would be a concrete act that should be brought here quickly and that would moderate these customer charges. Other things can be done, but I will take that as an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u53	Mr President! A representative of mine. Kiljunen is very well acquainted with the pension system, and at times he is very familiar with it. He may even be the leading pension experts in his party.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u58	When the debate is over and over, I hope that the reports will not be lengthy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u59	Mr President! I'll hold onto this, Mr. Chairman. The Vehviläinen's presentation is good, but now that we have had a little broader discussion of these very small occupational pensions and the problems there, I am convinced that Mrs Kiljunen would have already dealt with them. It seems that Mr Kiljunen is in the wrong party when his party does not seem to be in favour of these increases, as we saw last season. When that folded index was being processed in Parliament, the Social Democrats did not support it at the time. But I am convinced that if Mr Kiljunen were to decide, we would have these small pensions better. We are also concerned about the fact that we have very small-time pensioners, and it is precisely these occupational pensions for women, at the stage when we had women who did not raise a pension in the early system of parental leave, who are now in an exceptionally weak situation. It is difficult to take that money from within the system, and although Mrs Kiljunen pointed out that the government, as if she were going to take it from there, has expressed concern about this, that the system would then also be opened up to finance future promises such as the Ringe, and that the young people of today and the workers of today would pay for it. And yet, when our pension system is based on intergenerational trust and equality and on the fact that what has been earned retirement will also be made, then this would be jeopardised. Former Chairman of the Left Alliance, Suvi-Anne Siimes of Occupational Pension Insurance has said, among other things, that this is not going to succeed on the Ringe model. That is why I would rather have seen Rinne try to copy this, perhaps from the German Social Democrats, so that she would have been loyal to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u60	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Vehviläinen left this point, namely Mr Juvosen's observation that 100 signatures of the bill will lead to the committee's deliberations, is of course factually true, but the chairman of the committee was here, and his initiative can also be taken into consideration if it is wanted, even though it has fewer signatures than the 100. Unfortunately, he's not here right now to react. I must admire the representative Junnila and Heinonen's rhetorical ability. Rarely talented parliamentarians — the President must have noticed their skill. A particularly skilled rhetorical readiness is demonstrated by the fact that you are subject by praising. Congressman Junnila was very good at this. I admire that. I said that the centenary you called is impossible to carry out,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u73	Mr. Speaker! There has been a clear historylessness in this debate for months now. Congressman Kiljunen referred to a Teivo Pent age. By the way, when the Finnish earnings-related pension scheme was launched, the idea advocated by the Social Democrats was being accepted by the Coalition Party, and it was then, as it were, brought together between employees and employers to launch it. Decades later than in most control countries, in the Nordic countries, the increase in earnings-related pensions started. In that initial situation, there was a huge, dozens of times, a bigger transition for future pensioners who had not been able to raise their pension cover than what is now being proposed, a small patch-up, a correction to these pensions under EUR 1400. At that time, those persons of old age who were admitted to the new pension scheme received a pension after reaching the age of 65, when the target level for all was later that, when the pension was up to 60%, they might have only received a 10-15% pension. Substantial aid was paid, perhaps up to 10-15% more pension than they could raise after the year of its entry into force. So now that there are these contributions from the pension system, let us forget all about this as if it was the basis that from the beginning it was started that if there are such gaps in pension security, they must also be able to patch up from the pension fund within the pension system. This is in line with what the government is now pursuing, and I hope that its preparation will be swiftly launched and also a solution that fits this worthy history of the Finnish earnings-related pension system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u74	Mr President! Small pensions and also the smallest occupational pensions must be able to be increased. There's a common view that they're small. And now that the guarantee pension has been increased several times, we are in the process of creating this situation, which was also in Germany, and the solution there is that we do not take from other pensioners, that is not from within the fund, but in Germany the Social Democrats made this correction for low-paid women who have a long career to get the pension they deserve, but, Mr Kiljunen, they did it from the state's treasury, from the state budget and decided that they deserve it. This is what Prime Minister Rinte and the Rinte Government have full power over. That is what they can do, but it is still a bit confusing for pensioners to be allowed to think that they are getting, when those who are strictly in control of these pension funds have indicated that they will not accept it because it would cut other people's occupational pensions for the protection of other occupational pensions. That is why I ask you, Mr Kiljunen: why are the Finnish Social Democrats opposed to this model used in Germany, in which the government's decision to finance the state budget allocated that amount and, by the way, was able to correct the smallest women's pensions at the level that we have now seen together? Why is this government not using the method that is in the government's choice of means, even if tomorrow we will be making a supplementary proposal for next year's budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u75	Mr President! Here the hall always gets excited about this retirement thing to talk about when from which corner. But here it seems to be a lot of talk, but the whole thing is forgotten that it is exactly the same — or it is not the same — how much it is raised when it seems to be difficult to raise. Then why should the government not, if you really want to address the situation of pensioners, reduce customer charges, reduce taxation and reduce the cost of living? They're things the government can do. There is no need to wait for a trilogue if you really want to improve the position of pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u76	Mr President! To this last point, it could be pointed out in this way that this would mean that we should refrain from wage increases, while simply relying on a reduction in customer fees, service charges and taxation. Part of it is done, there are tax breaks in income policy agreements and no wage increases. But this is the other way. Yes, of course, if the cost of living can be affected, it affects people's livelihoods. But now we are talking, Mr President, about occupational pensions, the occupational pension system. This is the theme in which we are talking about pension provision. Mr Heinonen, why does the SDP not use the German model, use state budget funding for these pensions, but instead want to take over the pension scheme? Guess, Congressman Heinonen, why? Because nearly 50 years of pension funds have been collected in Finland, from 95 onward. We have huge funds that have been virtually untouched until 2015. Not even interest income was used on pensions, as the earnings-related pension contributions were higher than the pensions paid. Since then, a few hundred million have been spent. The growth is thousands of millions, EUR 8 billion each year. Pension funds have been raised there for the purpose of sometimes spending that money on pensions. That's the money that exists. Why were there no pension funds in Germany? Representative Heinonen, there are no pension funds in Germany. There are no pension funds in France. There is talk here that we will eat pensions for future generations if we use interest rates, profits from Finnish pension funds. So we will not dismantle them — even though they had to be dismantled when the baby boomers retire, the aim of the index was that they should then be dismantled. They are not dismantled, their interest rates are used. But now let's talk about going out and eating those future pensions. Germany and France have exactly EUR 0 in pension funds, i.e. in public pension funds. There is no euro. They cannot make increases from there when they cannot take that pension system, it does not exist. We have it, and the Rinte government is quite right to start negotiations on it, on the smallest occupational pensions first and there is a large-scale dismantling of the folded index. This index system needs to be corrected. We cannot legally impoverish pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u80	Mr President! If the President would have allowed me, I would have liked to have had the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The Vehviläinen's speech is a little complicated here. In his speech, he raised the issue of the customer fee cap and the customer fees at all. When these small pensions were discussed in committee, we also received concerns and ideas from experts that there really is a lot of work to be done in the case of customer defaults. It is desirable that the Board of Directors rush forward with a possible reform of the ceiling. It's a very confusing system, isn't it? For example, there are three different customer fees caps for the elderly — care, medicine and travel expenses. It's about 1500 euros, a little bit on top, the three in all. For example, when an elderly person fills this ceiling for customer fees, he may not even know it himself. So the person himself should be on the map and on the map to see what his customer fee ceiling situation is like. We should therefore really invest in this and think about how we can make it easier, because this society has become a very strong digital society. Everything happens electronically and you should be able to follow everything, but for the elderly these things are not easy. Although I do not understand the customer fee cap digitally, electronically, even to follow, it must be remembered that when you go to the services you say hello, I now have a customer fee cap full. So this is a very important issue as well as these customer fees in the future. And if the President allows, there is also the fact that there is going to be a social welfare reform and the way in which a small pensioner manages and is able to pay the social welfare reform in the world. Let us ensure that in the future social reform — and we very much hope for proposals, that the government will tell us what you are bringing, and we would like to be part of that parliamentary working group, that is to say, greeting Prime Minister Rinne: we hope to get there — the customer fees will not rise. That would be unreasonable, and it must not make savings in the society of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u81	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 2/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u82	Madam President! Report No. 2 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal of the Government No. 72 concerns the amendment of certain provisions relating to appeals in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment. This government proposal concerns purely red tape and the promotion of a reasonable handling of cases, specifically as regards court proceedings in the Supreme Administrative Court. The proposal proposes to amend 29 laws in the Ministry of the Environment's field of activity in order to align the provisions on appeal, in particular with the law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2020. Already today, the majority of administrative decisions taken in the Ministry of the Environment fall within the scope of the appeal authorisation when applying for an appeal to the Administrative Court decision from the Supreme Administrative Court, which is expressly provided for in each special law. In view of the fact that the abovementioned general laws make the procedure for the authorisation of appeal a general rule, the provisions on the authorisation of appeal of special laws would be changed into general references to the law on administrative proceedings. In other words, this streamlines the administrative system so that the search for a complaint permit is clear and applies in a certain way to any person concerned. The amendments included in the Government’s proposal mainly harmonise the provisions on appeals in various laws, but also extend the scope of the complaint authorisation procedure to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court for matters governed by the legislation of the Ministry of the Environment. It is also worth noting that, when the Supreme Administrative Court deals with matters, this law does not in any way interfere with the right to appeal, but clarifies the system so that it enters into the general system of administrative law, where everyone at the lower level of administrative law always has the right to appeal, and if one then wishes to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court, then it must be subject to the right to appeal, and these administrative practices will now be harmonised. The report by the Committee on the Environment makes this quite clear. The committee was unanimous on this matter. A few further comments on the report: The committee notes that the changes are consistent with the general objective of contributing to the development of the status and functions of the Supreme Administrative Court as the supreme court governing the administration of administrative law. The extension of the scope of the Licensing Scheme is not expected to undermine legal certainty, since it is a question of a second-degree appeal and the right to appeal must be granted in three specific cases. In other words, the right to appeal is automatically granted if it fulfils the three conditions set out in the report and laid down in the law. So it is not a law of strict denial, but a law of clear administrative clarity. And, as the report says, the Supreme Administrative Court in this case is given the opportunity to focus on the essential issues that align the interpretation of the law in Finland. The aim of the Licensing Scheme is to enable the Supreme Administrative Court to focus on more demanding specific issues, demanding legal issues and ensuring the coherence of case law. As a whole, the proposed changes are expected to improve the legal security of the parties concerned, since the proposed changes allow the allocation of the highest administrative right resources to matters of law application and consistency of case law and speed up the adoption of a final settlement. If, in accordance with this report, we are able to achieve a faster decision, it will help, for example, the business community in the area of licensing. After all, there was a great deal of bureaucracy in the last term of government, and this sort of goes on with that tradition. Finally, Madam President, I hope that, even in the coming years, Parliaments will concentrate on dismantling unnecessary administrative bureaucracy, which will help to focus this society on the essentials and, above all, enable companies to operate in such a way as to obtain, for example, the necessary business permits and, for example, environmental permits quickly enough. It will, of course, result in a lot of good for society and jobs for people. — The committee was unanimous in its report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u83	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 3/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Hoskonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u84	Madam President! The committee's report No. 3 concerns the government's proposal to amend the provisions on certain public alerts in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment. As you know, all decisions taken by the authority must be made public and communicated to the parties concerned, and in this case this law is in the process of dealing with this matter and streamlining the procedure. The proposal proposes to amend the Nature Conservation Act, the Law on Soil Materials, the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure, the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment of Authorities’ Plans and Programmes, the Law on the Organisation of Water Management and Maritime Management, the Law on the Maintenance and Cleaning of Streets and Certain General Areas, the Act on Environmental Protection of Antarctica and the Act on Outsourcing. The provisions on public alerts would be amended to reflect the general provisions on public alerts in the Administrative Law, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2020. General provisions on the publication of personal data are proposed to be included in the Act on Soil Materials and in the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure. In other words, this is also harmonising information so that citizens genuinely receive information on matters relating to them in good time. The second problem with these issues is that, as the current information society is increasingly covered by electronic information, it is now necessary to ensure that all people are informed in good time and with certainty on matters relating to themselves. The amendments to the Administrative Law have updated the general regulation of both the general declaration and the public alert so that publication on the Authority’s website becomes a priority procedure from the beginning of 2020 and physical bulletin boards are abandoned. With regard to the general statement, the amendment abolishes the primacy of the Official Journal and the fact that the document is displayed on the public information network must be communicated on the Authority’s website and, where appropriate, in a newspaper from which the recipient can be expected to receive the best information. It is worth noting in this context that this official magazine is such a freak, that many people know it exists but few of us have read it. This kind of official magazine is now, in a way, going away, and electronic information takes over. I think this procedure is very good because the official paper has never been a bestseller. A public alert shall also, in principle, be issued by the publication of an alert and the public document on the public information network on the website of the authority. If necessary, the alert would also be published in a newspaper or other manner decided by the authority. As we know, this procedure is already in place in the municipalities, as we know. On the basis of the reasons for the government's proposal and the report it has received, the committee considers that the proposal is necessary and appropriate. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection supports the adoption of legislative proposals without amendment, with the following comments: I would just like to make one comment on the fact that, when electronic communications are actually to be used, the Committee was very concerned that not all citizens have access to the information network and many do not even want to do so, and we must genuinely respect their choice. The Committee also stresses that not all citizens have the ability or the ability to use electronic means of information and cannot be obliged to do so. The committee refers to the report of the Administrative Committee No. 29 from the 2018 Parliament, in which it identifies the challenge, stating that the regulation of the Administrative Law also takes due account of situations where the public information network does not have sufficient service and, therefore, the margin of discretion allowed by the provisions must pay particular attention to the legal status of recipients and the need for access to information and social development. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also stresses the importance of complementary forms of information, such as the publication of a newspaper, particularly in the field of wide-ranging environmental issues. The public alert is used under specific provisions derogating from the Administrative Code, in particular in the administrative implementation of environmental regulation, in which decisions are often directed at a large number of people or legal persons. It is therefore very necessary to maintain the general regulation of public alerts in addition to notification. The Committee believes that the effectiveness of information on large-scale environmental issues can also indirectly affect the opportunities to participate in decision-making on the environment and thus ultimately in the development of environmental protection. The committee discussed these issues for a very long time and formulated them as a report of this kind. The committee was unanimous in its decision and we are pleased that we carefully reviewed the fact that all people have a genuine opportunity to know in advance about the matter concerning them and that they have the opportunity to speak on matters relating to themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u85	Mr President! This is indeed where public alerts and related regulation are dealt with. And as the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Hoskonen said, the committee was unanimous on this and it is of course important that these issues be harmonised. But two things. The first point was precisely that, when more is passed on to these electronic channels of information, it is also important to ensure that everyone has access to that information. In fact, reference was made to this report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs last year, which has also dealt with the issues of e-accessibility, i.e. the fact that things are online and in e-services. They can also be made accessible to the visually impaired, for example, if the services are already designed in that way. So it's important. And then another matter, which was also dealt with by the committee, and also in this report, was recorded in such a way that the Committee on the Environment feels that, in the long term, the objective should be a common and national platform for all administrative sectors, an online platform for both the state and the municipal authorities, to ensure electronic information and effective access to information. And what would this mean in practice? This has already been mentioned a few times in the last period. Now that we are giving up these newspaper advertisements and people want to look for what is going on in our own area, such as soil projects, permits, so it would be important for us to have this kind of joint, as the Ministry of Justice has done on this otapantaa.fi page, but some similar site where we would find all the projects related to the environmental permit on a national basis, about which people need information, because that information is already available by electronic means to our licensing authorities, and then it would be important for them to be found, for example, via the ympparisto.fi site, or through another site in the future, and this is important to pay attention to further preparation and legislative work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u86	Mr Hoskonen, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u87	Madam President! There were three things I didn't say. The first was that we are now planning an electronic database, a common database of administrative sectors and national authorities in Finland, an online platform for the state and municipal authorities to ensure electronic information and efficient access to information. The aim is to create such a database and to create such an electronic bulletin board for the whole country so that it can be easily found. When you go to a computer, for example, it could be found there — even when you put it on the desktop, you can read right away what could affect him. And that is easy to share with the current information technology, even if you look at what is involved in the province case, or even at local level, in which case information technology serves the customer, the parties concerned as effectively as possible. The second point is that, as these systems are being developed all the time, this bill and this report do not apply to the Land Use and Construction Act, because its reform is currently under way at the Ministry of the Environment. The related changes will then come with the reform of the law, which should be completed in about a year's time. We're working on some of those things right now. They're turning them around to this day. Finally, Madam President, one thing. This bill and the report by the Committee on the Environment also underline the importance of electronic information. And it then includes a challenge for us in the Finnish Parliament, for parliamentarians. We must ensure that these high-speed broadband connections are provided throughout the country. Because it cannot be that some parts of the country or some people are not informed about its guarantee when there is no broadband network. Here, too, we can freely be jealous of the Swedes. There, these nets have been built with real devotion. It should be borne in mind, Madam President, that we will not be able to resolve this issue through the market. Telecommunications operators are not sure to build a fast broadband network in this country for all Finns. We in Parliament have a major role to play in ensuring, with funding from here, that this fibre network is brought to the country as a whole. Not everyone is obliged to have a fibre net, of course, but the possibility must be, because then the citizens will be in an equal position and this spirit of the law will be realized.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u88	Mr President! Here, too, a small word of warning, especially when electronic communication concerns the Internet or computer-based communication of information or the communication of information via tablets. There is also a situation of age discrimination here because 80% of people over 80 do not have a computer available and 65% of people over 65 do not have a computer available. We have 300,000 adult Finns, most of them elderly people who simply do not have this tool available, and in this respect too we must always remind them that we must also have other ways of communicating.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u89	Mr President! First, I will pick up on what Mr Kiljunen referred to. It is quite true that although it makes sense for this society to become more digital, we must also ensure that the services of those who do not have these digital tools or do not have the ability to use them and to cope with them. This is certainly an aspect that should be taken into account in all the digital preparations, and I know that this is also being considered at the Ministry of Finance. The chairman of the committee, Mr Hoskonen, referred here to the importance of photo fibre and to the fact that it would be available to all. There's a huge difference here, depending on where the country comes from. In other words, in the areas where I am fortunately coming myself, Sastamala, for example, there is a local telephone company which today is part of a slightly larger group, the whole area in which this company operates is very active in making this fibre network. But then again, in those areas where there are no such small operators, where there are only large players, it is easy to rely only on this power of the mobile network. It does not provide the solution in all situations, so it is very important that there are arrangements to promote the widespread availability of fibre optic networks. It is, above all, the possibility for rural areas and smaller towns to have these networks in order. It is then possible to do telework and, of course, it is also possible to do more demanding work — robot poles and others, for example, where such optical fibre connections are absolutely necessary. So this is an important point to remember that this is as if an inexpensive way of maintaining the wide-ranging development of areas around Finland when we help build this fibre network.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u90	Mr President! If I understand, you'll talk about it when you build cables in the municipalities. Of this inequality: I live in Hyvinkää, in the town plan area, and we can get a cable in our area, but it costs two tons. It's a lot of money, and if you don't, it won't be there. Here I heard then that another company had made cable with him a short distance away. There are not many hundred meters of it, a rival company, and then there was no payment from those inhabitants. Well, it was a little bit of us a couple of blocks away, it felt like it was cool, we're paying two grand for this. For example, I might wonder, here I was trying to think of a solution, so now that the government is cutting that household allowance, here is one thing that could actually be included there. There are many things that are required at the moment, such as heating fuel renovations or energy renovations and cables. People would make them, but they don't have any money. It's a lot of money for me, too, and I hope that's something I'm happy about. But this for the record that it is not free fun in cities either. Mr Satonen gave a good speech on the availability of those local services. Banks have constantly reduced the number of branches, and many elderly people, sick people and even broke people who cannot afford equipment need services either because they do not have equipment or because they do not know how to use these different services. We must make sure that all people get to these services, because no matter how fine the electrical systems we have, if you can't get there or go there or you can't afford to go there, then you'll miss out — but for the government the ball here. Hoskose has a good line on many things. These could be thought of, just this type of thing for energy renovations, cables and so on. I do not know if you knew that in Hyvinkää, for example, it will be so expensive, in one house.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u92	Madam President! Here's a few words about this hearing. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also took into account those people who do not have access to this information through computer networks, which are absolutely necessary. Yes, in a good spirit, these things were discussed and discussed there for a long time. It's very important. And here, too, the importance of computer networks has been highlighted. Today, of course, optical fibre networks are good in some part of Finland, but we are lucky to see technology developing so fast today that soon even in the remote village, even in the back of the poor, such a faster connection will be achieved, i.e. via satellite services. I would like the government to catch up on developments in this direction, too, because everyone understands that in every remote village the fibre is completely impossible to get through for cost reasons. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u93	Madam President! The issue of fibre networks is common to all of us, and this has been done for quite a long time. We have both good and bad examples of how they have been built and how they have been sought to make them profitable, even if they cover their own costs. Representative The sea brought forth Hyvinkää, which is mainly urban housing, but when you go to rural places, the costs increase even more. Of course, different support schemes are also possible there, and many municipalities, such as my own, Loppi, support these cooperatives that build these networks. Nevertheless, the subscription fees are even higher than those above. One thing that has not been raised here is that we should ensure that we do not have a situation where private companies are building these networks, actually receive quite a lot of public support and private money, and that after that the networks are already being sought out by foreign venture investors. Then we run the risk of creating another Caruna of this kind, where the networks are owned abroad, and that is the only guarantee that people will be able to access these high-speed communications. Generally, when this type of model is created, prices will also rise. So I hope that special attention will also be paid to this, that there will be no new monopoly-style network system in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u94	Madam President! With regard to optical fibre networks, specifically in relation to this draft law, the important thing about the report is that we get that information to go to the person in good time, because the times for complaints, usually one month of complaints, go on for seven days from the moment the decision of the authority on a matter has been put on the information network. That's where the appeal time starts: seven days plus one month. After seven days, the time begins to pass, and then there will be a month of appeal time. So this is something to be aware of. Another point about fibre networks: When state services are provided to people in information networks, it is perfectly possible to build fibre in rural municipalities. My municipality of residence did it for all the torpedoes. It is also not true that fibers are not available for the last piece of paper. A family from Ilomantsi lived in a lake in Lake Nuorajärvi, and the family became fiber fibers. The only problem was the authority, I am not going to say deliberate, but I would say that it is a strange attitude to the matter when it was required to apply to the Regional State Administrative Agency for the permit to land the cable at the bottom of the lake and it took eight months to get permission to land it at the bottom of the lake. It was done, and there is now a fast broadband connection in that house, whose speed is, if you want 20 bucks to put more money into it, one gigabit speed per second. It can already be used by a demanding engineer or anyone with a high level of expertise, even if it runs design programs. It gives the impossible good speed, and the services will certainly come. That is why, when we are dealing with the Structural Funds laws in the near future, I hope that, at last in this House, it will be understood that, when these Structural Fund rules are developed and implemented in the Ministry, and they are influenced in their own way by representatives, we will have the strong signal that more should be spent on building fibre networks from the EU Structural Funds. We have no better task of equality in this country than to have a fibre connection for everyone. And it is worth reminding those who defend the wireless network: no wireless network in this country will play unless there is a fibre connection between the links. That too should be borne in mind. If there is no fibre connection between those link masts, this wireless network will not function properly. You might want to remember this whole thing. It is a whole, and we must always keep it in mind. I hope, Mr President, that this Parliament will now take seriously this message that these optical fibre connections must be built if we are to keep pace with the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u95	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 3/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u96	Madam President! We are now dealing with the government's proposal for a law amending the citizens' initiative law. In the government's proposal, the changes are mainly of a technical nature and are aimed at making our own legislation better compatible with EU law. However, its impact on the signing age of EU citizens’ initiatives is relevant. At present, the age requirement for EU citizens to be able to support the citizens' initiative is based directly on the Regulation, which is tied to the right of citizens to vote in European elections. The new regulation allows the Member State to maintain the status quo, but it also provides for the possibility, in accordance with the second article of the regulation, of making the initiative eligible for support for a minimum of 16 years. In other words, Finland could, if it wished, reduce the age limit by two years, which entitles it to support EU citizens' initiatives. The direction is exactly the right one. Finland is used to being the world's number one in development, but now the situation is that we are falling behind. A new generation is growing in Europe that wants to influence and not just be the subject of influence. Without a response, it may happen that in Finland in the future, 16-year-olds will be able to sign an EU citizens' initiative but will not be allowed to sign citizens' initiatives in their own country. This situation needs to be corrected. Mr President! Young people are going to fall off the sled, and the future we have in sight of is a flimsy one. Young people are forced to have more and more influence on their own future because they have a more realistic idea of how much the world has changed. But a politician can't just say to a young person that, well, try to take an interest in making a difference if a young person is not given a chance to do so. A huge number of signatures for citizens' initiatives have been collected in market tents and shopping centres. These places have become arenas for social debate and influence. High school students and young people have stopped with interest to inquire about new proposals only to hear the words ‘unfortunatelycan be signed’. Mr President! In the bill I submitted today, I propose strengthening direct democracy in Finland so that from the age of 16 young people would have the opportunity to sign the citizens' initiative. This change has only positive effects on the social activation of Finns, and it would not be out of representative democracy, because in any case Parliament decides to adopt citizens' initiatives. I hope that every Member of Parliament across party boundaries will be able to sign this bill in order to increase the influence of young people. If parties are involved in this, the next step may also be to propose the right to draw up a citizens' initiative for 16-year-olds. I believe that we will then be able to get a lot more issues that are particularly relevant to young people in this House. When young people are the future of this country, they are also involved in making decisions about it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u97	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The citizens' initiative will increase and expand the political participation of people. At national level, the citizens' initiative has also given people the opportunity to raise the issues they feel are important for political debate. The citizens' initiative and also the municipal initiative give a voice especially to Finns who otherwise do not necessarily participate in political activities or even vote. There'll be an opportunity to make a difference. The law on the citizens' initiative, which entered into force in 2012, is essential for democracy and political inclusion. As an instrument of direct democracy, it brings a path to new ideas and awakens us decision-makers. It would be wrong to think that wisdom and responsibility for decision-making would only lie with us elected MPs or municipal decision-makers. The Finnish citizens' initiative model is a unique and admiring creation compared internationally. One of the most important features is that the initiative can be signed electronically. The Finnish citizens' initiative model has been applied in Denmark, for example, where the initiative was introduced in 2018. In the Danish model, the same features are represented, among other things, by the minimum number of 50000 signatures to which Parliament is entitled and the period of six months from the date of submission of the initiative. The Finnish model is excellent, although we still have development. Finns also have the opportunity to submit or support EU citizens' initiatives, so-called European citizens' initiatives. At least seven EU citizens from seven different countries are required to submit the initiative. The minimum age for supporting the initiative is linked to the right of Member States to vote in the European Parliament elections, which is 18 years for a large number of EU countries. If the initiative receives more than one million signatures and meets the minimum limits set for Member States, the Commission will have to deal with it. The Government's proposal now being discussed will largely only change the legal framework for citizens' initiatives from a technical point of view to a new EU citizens' initiative regulation. In addition, the Government's proposal is based on the transfer of the functions of the Population Register Centre to the Digi and Population Information Office, which must also be taken into account in the Act of Citizens' Initiative. The new EU regulation will allow Member States to calculate a minimum age for 16 years. Some Member States have been prepared to reduce the age of signature of the EU citizens' initiative to 16 years. In Finland, the age limit is considered in a parliamentary working group set up by Prime Minister Rinte, which deals more extensively with the development needs of party law, electoral funding law and electoral law. As a party, the Greens have long been calling for a reduction in the voting age and greater participation of young people. The inclusion of young people and the expansion of opportunities for influence are extremely important elements for the functioning of democracy. I am therefore also in favour of reducing the age for citizens' initiatives. I hope that we will put in place the means to increase the opportunities for young people to make their own voice heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u98	Madam President! I think that both Mr Tynkkynen and Mr Hopsu gave excellent speeches here. I would therefore like to emphasise Mr Tynkkysen's comments on the citizens' initiative and, in fact, on these age values. I myself consider this age limit for citizens' initiative to be the easiest way to enable young people to participate in the right policy. Now we have all sorts of other activities in the councils, and participation is being developed all the time, but I think it is quite justified that the minimum age for citizens' initiatives should be reduced. It would be such an easy first step for young people to take part in and take a stand on social issues. After all, we have been discussing the age of voting, but I would not necessarily be ready for that yet, but with regard to citizens' initiatives, I am definitely in favour of looking at this age limit both from the point of view of supporting it and from the point of view of drafting it. This would probably be the easiest way to see where this development will lead and then later consider this age of voting if it is no longer necessary when a new channel of influence of power is opened here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u99	Mr President! In this debate, we now have a small correction proposal from the citizens' initiative institution. There has been a good debate on the citizens' initiatives themselves, and we have had one citizens' initiative today, some of which has not yet been discussed. The initiative related to fireworks, which indicates that the citizens' initiative can raise important issues. When I followed the debate that was taking place in this Chamber today, a significant part of the speeches made were strongly, across party boundaries, in the view that this type of restriction on the use of fireworks would make sense. I merely took it as an example that through the citizens' initiatives there will be clear openings for debate and decision-making in this Chamber that are important and we feel it is important. It's just too bad I didn't get to talk about it at the time. I would also like to express my support for this citizens' initiative. Mr President! Of course, this institution of citizens' initiatives, which is the children of the 21st century in our political systems, came within the scope of the European Union, which already referred to this million-signature citizens' initiative at European Union level, as a result of its convention process then in 2003 and subsequently to the Treaties of the European Union. After all, these policies of citizens' initiatives in different countries have also been introduced into national legislation. This citizens' initiative is an important institution which complements representative democracy. It is a way of direct democracy and is still clearly developing. I am absolutely convinced that, in the longer run, the nature of this initiative will be understood as a very important part of the democratic decision-making system. There was Mr Tynkkysen's proposal and the opening of a reduction in the minimum age of 18 years, which is our voting age, for those who could sign this citizens' initiative. I also think that the opening is worth considering, just because young people in general are so-called people of one thing. They feel one big thing at the heart of it, which then increases the youth to a wider social influence, as its relationship with other community is opened up. In this respect, this idea of taking an initiative through the citizens' initiative in decision-making, in social matters is a rather natural way of becoming part of this society's decision-making system, which this democratic system allows, without interfering with the actual voting age that could last 18 years. So I think it's worth considering that idea. In addition to such fine-tuning, as is the case with this change now taking place, it would be useful for this institution of citizens' initiatives to take into account two things that are worthy of development. The first point is: The role of this representative democracy in the decision-making process is the fourth state power, that is, the mainstream media. The role of mainstream media in these citizens' initiatives is so great that some have said that they are media initiatives. A citizens' initiative that attracts the attention of the media has the potential to pass. If you do not get that attention, the citizens' initiative does not want to become aware, the word does not want to go far enough, and the result is that the initiative does not carry it, even if it could offer it in substance. There is also a little of this age discrimination element that I referred to earlier. As long as the initiative system functions digitally, as our system of initiatives functions digitally for the most part, initiatives that concern young people who move more easily in the digital world will receive faster support than, for example, initiatives that clearly focus on the affairs of the elderly, which means that hand-collecting is the only way to collect properly. There is also a problem of this kind here, which, of course, should also be taken into account, or at least registered, that there should also be more room for older people to take part in these citizens' initiatives. The role of the media is crucial; it needs to be identified. Those who have compiled or participated in the collection of citizens’ initiatives know that this limit of 50,000 signatures is really great. It's really big. It is an incredible effort to get 50,000 signatures if you do not get the publicity of the mainstream media back to what will immediately raise its support. Without it, it's a really big effort. Mr President! I myself would be considering the possibility that this institution could be more flexible in its nature,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u102	Madam President! I can't stand to be with you without saying a few words, inspired by Mr. Kiljune. I partly agree with him and partly disagree with him. Firstly, I certainly do not consider this limit of 50,000 signatures to be too low, but perhaps rather the opposite. These citizens' initiatives have, of course, come in a great many recent times, and now, of course, it is important in itself that the citizens become such an expression. It's a strong expression when it comes to 50,000 names. Every issue must be dealt with here, but it is also the case that some of these initiatives are also such as the type of budget initiative. The question then, of course, arises as to whether that is the starting point for the citizens' initiative, because then, if we intervene in the price of diesel fuel, everyone will understand that such things will be decided as part of the state budget, for example, so that it is quite challenging to decide on a particular issue on the basis of a citizens' initiative. This does not mean that I am in any way an enthusiastic defender of the diesel tax — especially since I am driving a diesel car myself. To be serious, I mean that these citizens' initiatives, in order for them to work, should relate to issues which are, as it were, legislative, perhaps value-based issues — those that can then also be adopted in Parliament without taking into account the perspective of the entire national budget. Then there's another question, and that's where I'm from. I fully agree with Mr Kiljune that this is precisely the case that if the matter gets big in the media, then it will get visibility and may lead to something, but this same phenomenon also applies to the legislative initiatives taken by the MPs. There are quite a few legislative initiatives that have been tabled by the majority of Parliament in the past and which have not necessarily led to anything. Mr Juvosen's bill on care leave or hospice care for family carers will be discussed today. I myself once made a bill which, in fact, even led to a change in the law. It had a very strong will in Parliament, but it was very little on the media and the result has been that, although the law is already in force, so much of the people do not even know that it exists, and therefore the use has been limited. So, yes, it's a reality. Or as another example, I remember the debate here on reducing inheritance tax. A number of legislative initiatives, policy initiatives and others were submitted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u103	Mr President! I disagree with Mr Satos and agree with him. In particular, I would like to emphasise that I would like to say that I did not quite understand what Mr Satonen said. It was a bit of a tone that you downplayed the People's Initiative Institute a little bit in the form that they come in here and we have a huge number of them to deal with. Yes, there will be quite a lot of them, as demanding as it is to get signatures for citizens' initiatives, but I would still not underestimate this at all, even if they were of the type of budget initiative. They do not in themselves lead to legislation. Yes, they are handled by Parliament, and we are smart enough to say that if it is a type of budget law, if it is going to lead to something, then we will be able to build it in that budget, either in an amending budget or directly in the budget. I would not underestimate these citizens' initiatives at all and I would not consider that to be a great deal. The government's presentations here are really bleak, as they should be. This is the job of this house to make laws. We can handle the few citizens' initiatives and the debate through them. Instead, I would definitely like to remind Mr. Satonen — and now he is speaking as an expert of experience: the collection of 50,000 signatures is a huge piece of work. It's a huge job, especially if it's done by hand. If it gets explosive publicity through digital, then it is different, but if it is collected seriously, as most NGOs and people do, it is a huge, huge amount of work. And if you can get that 50,000, it's great, and it's going to be a real bill. But I repeat the idea that 10,000 are also huge, and when you can collect it, it will, however, bring the matter to a political debate, at least by having the Council of State — the Minister — to take a position.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u104	Mr President! I also feel that we Members of Parliament are obliged to bring matters into the political debate. We can do press releases and bring them up here. It does not necessarily require ten thousand names, but each of us can exercise that right of speech. I am more concerned, in fact, when people are often told that these citizens' initiatives do not lead to anything, that they talk in the Chamber and then nothing happens. That is perhaps the problem, though, that if you have to do the complete sections, it is a very laborious work. If you consider how, for example, the ministry prepares the law, there are hearings, professional massages and they are often viewed, and then they come to the parliamentary committee. When the citizens' initiative comes to us in Parliament, it comes to us in committee, and we do not have the machinery and the opportunity in committee to make that legislation and the investigative work in the same way as on that part of the ministry. This often leads to the fact that the law itself may not be feasible, but the experts will then come to the committee to say that a good idea, but this as it stands, cannot be put into effect. It will then be possible for Parliament to say that the citizens' initiative will be rejected, but it is hoped or even required that the government will start preparing legislation. It may take as long as it takes, and then there comes a feeling to the public that it did not lead to anything, even though it actually did. I agree with Mr Satonen that it would be good to have more of such fundamental issues, such as ‘supporting something’, ‘don’t support’,and then measure the state of mind. It could even be thought that a deadline would be set so that, in this particular period, there must be an answer from the ministry as to what to do with it or whether this government is going to do anything at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u109	Madam President! This is a good, fundamental debate on these citizens' initiatives. There was an excellent point at the Sea that if you have collected a signature from more than 100 MPs here, then that is quite a number of people behind it. Although I do not think that everyone who voted for me or anyone else, for example, would agree with each other on all matters, which is of course not something that one can add together, but of course it has a huge power behind it. But maybe this will crystallize... I would like to correct Mr Kiljunen's statement that I will by no means underestimate these citizens' initiatives. Rather, it might be that if this bar were even higher, the appreciation would be even stronger. So it is perhaps a question of what we are looking for with this citizens' initiative. If I have understood correctly, Mr Kiljunen's idea of this 10,000, which would answer a written question, is that it may then be a matter which may be of great importance to a reasonably small group of people, but not a matter of wide-ranging social debate. Of course, it has its own point, but in situations like this, for example, I think we do have other ways of addressing this issue than the citizens' initiative. But, of course, I do not think it is bad if, even if a citizens' initiative were to come here for the return of the coeliac compensation, for example, which is now being attempted through an alternative budget. This is, as it were, one example of this type. But then, if and when this bar is high, then the 50,000 is not an impossible number to collect names on matters that are of real interest to the public. I don't think it's impossible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u112	Mr President! A few comments on this issue of citizens' initiative more generally. So, first of all, I would suspect that if a matter is so important and interesting for 10,000 people that they are prepared to sign such a question initiative, they will undoubtedly also be able to influence the elected MPs they have voted to ask such a question. However, it is the primary way of representing the people in a representative democracy. Secondly, the fact that the initiative does not mean that it goes through in the form that has been put forward, but that it does. Now, if we do a little roughing up, it is possible that 50,000 people are in favour of something, but then 4 million are against it. Even though the example has been broken, you all understand what I mean. In other words, not all citizens' initiatives that come to Parliament for discussion have the support of the majority of the people behind them. It could be different. I believe that this institution of citizens' initiatives should be developed in such a way that the citizens' initiative is a message to us politicians, what we should do, what is the state of will in which a large number of citizens want to move forward. So now that we have these formal requirements for legislation, many times the good idea of a citizens' initiative is lost in those formal requirements. When such formal proposals, together with their justifications, are here, almost as if they were government proposals, it is often not a citizens' initiative, but an NGO initiative. In other words, non-governmental organisations, which have a completely different resource to produce legal proposals, to market them, to get them to the media, to bring things here past the legislative process, even with the support of government politicians, in the worst case scenario. This is hardly the purpose of the citizens' initiative system, but it is more a question of being able to bring it to the attention of the ordinary citizen about things that do not go through traditional political channels.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u113	Mr President! It seems that there is a very wide range of citizens' initiatives here. I was here when the citizens' initiative law was enacted, a member of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, and there was a great deal of thought about what should be this minimum number of signatures, and then came to this 50,000, which was considered virtually impossible in practice, and it was imagined that this would become a very heavy social instrument when such a high requirement was imposed. Someone here has considered that it is not very relevant how many signatories there are. Even if it were raised to 100,000, it would probably be as good as 100,000 as 50,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u116	Madam President! When I looked at this opinion of the Constitutional Committee, I am sure that things are going quite well in this whole European area, but with a little bit of a record I thought I would say. I was also allowed to be a member of my own group, as a member of the Bureau of my own group, at the time in 2011 to state the point of view of the Social Democrats on the introduction of this citizens' initiative, which was then introduced in 12. As some fellow Member has said, it was in the imagination that this limit of 50,000 is so high that when the first initiative comes. And it lasted a year. In the spring of 2013, the first citizens' initiative came in the spring of winter, which had reached this limit of 50,000. That limit of 50,000 is about over one per cent of those entitled to vote. Of course, it can be estimated today whether that limit is too high or too low, I do not take a position on it, but I will take a position on it in terms of building content. I agree with Mr Mäkelä earlier. During the last term of the Committee on Administration, I noticed a situation in which a well-meaning citizens' initiative and a legislative proposal collided with such formal and technical issues. It would therefore be justifiable for us as legislators to review once again whether this system of citizens' initiatives is actually, however, a channel in which the ordinary Finnish citizen who considers a matter important should bring it up to the social debate as to whether it is working as a system. Providing assistance and advice on administrative details, even if the legislative procedure, to the person preparing the citizens' initiative could be one way of ensuring that the citizen actually has the means to take initiatives that are technically going through this Parliament. So this system certainly deserves to be developed and perhaps to get more out of the great idea of the citizens' initiative. It is not just the number of citizens' initiatives that must be stared at, but above all the quality and content of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u117	Mr President! To think about the possibility of developing the citizens' initiative institution into a direct legislative initiative: I have understood it in this way that the citizens' initiative does not have to be in the form of a law as such, but it is an opening to Parliament that it is able to make a change in the law on that theme, that it will become a reality. I would like to say to Mr Kari that we are getting the help of the Ministry of Justice — but often the citizens do not necessarily know it, and that is where Mr Kari is right — that if it is to be formulated, then the Ministry of Justice will have the people from the People's Initiative who regulate and control it, and then it will be possible to give legal advice, too, so that is possible. Instead, there was some sort of confrontation here, but a little like reflection on what number of signatures would be needed, what type of end-out could be — I was referring to this 10,000, 50,000 signatures and so on. We do have: As I recall, Mr Mäkelä said that if someone was collecting 10,000 names, it could also be done through MPs or otherwise. Of course, we have an institution of representative democracy, which means that we are in the highest decision-making body in Parliament. We have the opportunity to ask a written question if citizens so request, non-governmental organisations ask, anyone who asks or wants to be informed. We'll get some answers. We also have the right to take a legislative initiative, and we do not need a citizens' initiative to do so. Citizens can approach us. We also have the right, this wording, that if there are 50,000 signatures, then it must be dealt with in Parliament as well as not now the government's proposal, but in the seriousness of the government's proposal. That is the starting point, and they are dealt with here as a type of citizens' initiative. We also have the question of crossing the threshold of 100 MPs in the legislative initiative, when it should also be dealt with in the parliamentary committee, such as the government's proposal, so that the ministry gives its opinion on it. I can say, Mr President, that today is the day of celebration for me. A moment ago, a bill has been put together on parking charges to try to put them together. The President can congratulate me. I have 100 signatures. And I can also tell you that it's a huge job. It's a huge job.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u120	Madam President! There is a good debate here on the citizens' initiative. The citizens' initiative is very important to citizens so that they can make their voice heard in Parliament and give us the message that is important to them. But just as important are the legislative initiatives taken by parliamentarians. Sometimes I have wondered why the legislative initiatives taken by MPs are in a worse position than the citizens' initiative. In other words, in order for the bill to proceed here even to the Ministry, which would give a statement, it requires the signature of more than a hundred MPs. It would also be very important for a lesser number of signatures to be able to do this, because there are very important issues here on the table. During many parliamentary years, I myself have made a bill for sexual offences against children, which has collected over a hundred signatures. But when the citizens' initiative came on the same subject, they then went together and proceeded in that way. I was a member of the Nordic Council last season and was able to present this Finnish citizens' initiative system, which was, of course, admired in a way, by the fact that it is great that people can participate in democracy by bringing ideas and important withdrawals. Should we have a common citizens' initiative system between the Nordic countries on this basis, and how could we also develop democracy within the Nordic countries? Collecting a hundred signatures for a bill is an extremely large task, and it would also be important for the committees to then deal with these legislative initiatives by parliamentarians, because that is also how our constituents and citizens hope and always expect that when good ideas go forward, they will also be put through. However, it is often the case that a bill signed by a hundred representatives will then, after a statement from the Ministry, remain there in the file that it will not proceed, but the citizens' initiative will always come to this Chamber for discussion. In other words, it is very important that it is dealt with in committee and then comes to this Chamber for discussion, and then the curve of the citizens' initiative will be closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u121	Madam President! This is the representative. Tynkkynen previously presented his bill in connection with the second speech, and that is where the age limit for the signature of this citizens' initiative had been dropped for 16 years, and when Mr Kiviranta thought about this figure too, if that were to be the case, of course this amount would also have to be increased from 50,000 to something more if he were to activate more young people. But I think that Mrs Juvonen is paying attention to a very important issue. As a general rule, we are discussing the citizens' initiative or even the number of signatories and so on, but there is a real concern about the effectiveness of both the citizens' initiative and the legislative initiative, and I would like to give the following thought to the question: for example, in the United States, these legislative projects will be taken forward in the course of the elections. At the same time as voting for a representative of his own in Congress, there may be a vote on the financing of a road project. There's a lot of stuff there, in a way, in the same context,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u122	Madam President! If I remember correctly, this one citizens' initiative, which came across such technical problems, relates to the firearms law. This is the kind of memory I have — if there are colleagues from that committee, they will probably remember too. That these technical problems exist. I personally would not like to compare these legislative initiatives of MPs with the citizens' initiative, as it were. Both must be given their own value, and its value must, of course, be high. In particular, in this area of citizens' initiative, it should be possible to ensure that the author of the citizens' initiative has a real chance of making a technical part of the drafting of citizens' initiatives, which then does not run into some technical formalities in Parliament. But about this legal initiative line of 100 MPs: I understand, however, that there is no established rule in this Parliament for this 100 border to get more proper treatment than the legal initiatives that are written in a smaller number. [Arto Satose’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u123	Madam President! This system of citizens' initiatives has in fact changed this parliamentary debate quite a bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u126	Mr President! Mr Räsänen's point is that when I have spoken about the citizens' initiative of 10,000 names, i.e. when the citizens' initiative has received 10,000 names, that does not mean that the limit of 50,000 signatures would be lowered. That would lead to another type of processing. My idea is that it should go to the Government, which means that the Minister will answer it in the same way as he answers a written question from a Member of Parliament, so that it does not burden the work of Parliament — the work of the Ministry, however. But I will return to what you both pointed out by Mr Kari and Mr Räsänen: the main importance of this institution of citizens' initiatives is that it can be raised from the level of civil society to a political debate — even a serious political debate — on issues that citizens feel are important. That's the most important part of it. We are raising themes that may not want to have room through the political system, but are now being discussed through the citizens in our joint forum. I also agree with your view that this legislative initiative here in Parliament will not, hopefully, suffer from this, because yes, when we make these legislative initiatives they will be taken seriously and that it is an institution of representative democracy that we represent and should be treated properly. I do not believe that Mr Kari wanted to underestimate the fact that I have just received a hundred signatures for this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u129	All recorded, speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u130	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. First signatory of the bill, Mr. Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u131	Mr President! ‘Where books are burned, people are burned at the end. “ So wrote the German writer Heinrich Heine in 1981. This warning should be kept clear in our minds, even though those now in power no longer need to physically burn written pronouncements, but will be removed from the human reach of the digital world. There is now a bill for the amendment of Section 10 of Chapter 11 of the Penal Code drawn up by the Finnish Parliament Group. We propose that, instead of simply denying offensive opinions, only criminal activity should be clearly prohibited. This part of the arousal that we propose to change is known as "Acceleration Against the People's Group". Today, it has been formulated by law in this way: ‘Anyone who places knowledge, opinion or any other message on the public’s agenda may or may not be made public on grounds of public interest,conferencing,suppression or disability on other grounds such as race, colour, birth, national or ethnic origin,religion, sexual orientation or disability, shall be sentenced to discrimination against a national group for a The current content of the article is very problematic. First of all, the character of the crime in question speaks of slander and insult, which are easily interpreted. Ultimately, it will depend on the spirit of time that the courts view as slander and abuse. This article expressly prohibits the provision of information. It is a very special restriction on freedom of expression to ban the presentation of information. Without knowledge, you can't protect the truth. It is the view of the True Finns that disclosure of information must not be criminal. The paragraph on incitement restricts freedom of opinion because the article prohibits the expression of an opinion which the interpreter considers to be prohibited. Opinions cannot harm anyone, as long as there is no threat attached to them and there is no obvious danger. The Finns of Peru suggest that legally reprehensible incitement against the people is merely a threat and incitement to crime. This would make the section clear and precise. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right. If freedom of expression applies only to ideas that are sympathetic or considered to be unitary, then freedom of expression loses meaning and value. Freedom of expression must also cover messages that offend or shock listeners. Freedom of expression is a right in a legal language, that is, a right that is justified by the legal system. So, in the legal sense, the question is: What protection does the plea of justice protect? The benefit to be protected by this paragraph, this right, is linked to the interpretations and perceptions of the atmosphere. It is not, therefore, a direct, protective right, as it should be. The Criminal Code should only prohibit acts leading to concrete harm and infringement of the right to justice. The inflammatory clause is abstract and therefore, in the light of the general principles of criminal law, it is extremely worrying. The article on incitement to the people's group, which we propose to change, took its present form with the government's proposal almost 10 years ago. The statement of reasons for the government’s proposal was worded as follows: ‘Freedom of speech has highlighted the importance of its social and policy debate in areas such as science and art. The proposed provisions of the Criminal Code do not limit the freedom to discuss matters of social importance. In the context of the political and social debate at the heart of freedom of expression, restrictions must be more rigorous than in commercial advertising, for example. The freedom of science and art are also important fundamental rights, which should be duly taken into account in the application of the proposed provisions.’ The True Finns point out that, according to the government’s proposal, the provision was not intended to restrict the freedom to discuss matters of social importance or to make it unduly difficult for such a discussion to take place. Unfortunately, however, the application of the law is no longer in line with that goal set out in the legislative proposals. For example, limited police resources are being used to deal with requests for investigation from old television series, which have been presented several times. Such police investigations are not part of a state that respects the rights of its citizens. People’s old writings are beginning to go through at a more frequent pace. The quoting of Christian texts and the public expression of spiritual conviction may be subject to a preliminary investigation, as we have recently seen. Even a speech by a Member of Parliament in plenary criticising the records of the government programme may trigger a preliminary investigation and prosecution. All recent events have made it increasingly evident that a change of law is needed to safeguard the freedom of expression and equality of citizens. Recent examples also raise the question: What happens next? There are still new manifestations of the use of the arousal bar. For example, the risk of criminal liability even causes the media to remove old material from their archives, which may now be considered offensive. The result may be a distortion of history. What is most worrying is that all of this is leading to an atmosphere of fear about what you dare to say. In practice, people with unpopular opinions have no way of knowing in advance what you can say in Finland today without the need to fear the legal consequences. Fear of going to the police is beginning to limit the writing of ordinary people. The result is the climate of self-censorship and the impoverishment of social debate. In addition, practice has shown that Chapter 11, Section 10 of the Criminal Code does not: protect equally legally, equally all groups. Virke, for example, a saying about native Finns, as a group of Finnish people, does not even give cause for prosecution, and then the same sentence for another national group leads to judgment. From the point of view of equality guaranteed by the Constitution, such selective law is untenable, whether it is the original purpose of the legislator or only interpretations made possible by too broad legislation. The current provision is not precise at the level required by the principle of criminal law. The limit of criticism and insult has become vague. This is concrete, for example, in the way we view Islam today in the West. The criticism of Islam is often seen as an attack on all Muslims. Such an attitude brings Islam above all criticism. The purpose of the law cannot be, nor should it be, that a group of religions receive special treatment. The current paragraph on incitement is intended, according to the legislative proposals, to provide protection, above all, to those sections of the population who are generally socially disadvantaged and therefore in need of special protection. This is quite remarkable in terms of equality. We can rightly ask in the most equal society in the world, Finland, whether minorities need such a huge special protection. The law should treat all citizens equally. No group should be given special rights that others lack. The law must be very precise and clear in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u132	Do they want to make a debut on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u133	Madam President! There is no separate provision in Finnish legislation for hate speech or hate speech to be punished according to a separate hate speech. However, there are a number of paragraphs in the Criminal Code that can be used to prosecute the person who spreads hate speech. One of the points is the provocation against the people's group, which is now being proposed to be changed. This section of the penal code must be changed because the current situation is that people are being judged on very arbitrary grounds for exercising their legal freedom of expression — that is, freedom of expression, which is a fundamental democratic issue. Consider, for example, us parliamentarians. We have been voted here in Parliament to represent the people in the general elections — elections where a voting citizen chooses a candidate and a party that he believes best serves his interests. Excitement against the people has been in the Finnish Penal Code for some 25 years, and its definition is very broad. The current representative, Räsäinen, will be subject to a pre-trial investigation published 15 years ago. In view of the above, I believe that pre-trial examinations and prosecutions should have taken place over the years like mushrooms in the rain. Why, then, has this article been actively used for articles published even more than a decade ago? It is clear that the article has begun to be used to silence political opponents from some quarters. Such an approach is anti-democratic and undermines the rule of law in Finland. In addition to the violation of freedom of expression, everyone can think about how much police stations and courts will become congested in the near future, when one if another Finn is held responsible for the expression of his opinion. The bigger question is how far you go back and what decade you draw the line that you can be accused of inciting against the people. Will this terrible Your Majesty’s crime ever expire? According to the law, the prosecution of an inciting crime against a group of people will expire in five years. So in 2009, Mr Räsänen’s 2004 article became obsolete ten years ago, but now he may be expected to be charged with that article. It can therefore be said that a very strange situation is currently emerging in Finland, where people are being judged retrospectively and thus illegally. Madam President! Politics is a matter of common concern. In order to be able to decide, both citizens and parliamentarians must also be able to give their firm opinions and views to the public debate. When things only quarrel, then things in society are still good. For example, injustice causes hatred in people. By suppressing people against democracy, people are being embittered against society. Censorship, precensorship or now new ex post censorship is a blow to the fundamental rights of a democratic citizen to freely discuss his or her own life and the problems of society. In a healthy society, it must be possible to present the facts freely without fear of pre-trial investigation, prosecution or convictions. Where are we going when we're digging up words decades ago? The article is completely absurd. Will there be a possible charge in the future if and when someone calls the Eskimo Eskimo Eskimo? Madam President! The current situation is that if a citizen wishes to bring to public debate a variety of social laxities, he or she may face a very small threshold of criminal liability for what he or she has to say. This cannot continue, and this amendment of the law must be brought through in order to end the condemnation of innocent people when they exercise their freedom of expression. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u134	Madam President! Finland has recently had an active and very intense debate on freedom of expression in some places. This is an extremely important subject, and excellent speeches have been made here. This debate has taken place, among other things, from the point of view of the limit of the expression of permitted and prohibited opinion. Unfortunately, this line is now a line drawn in water. It's really hard to figure out and recognize the boundary. The legislative initiative of the Finnish People's Parliament Group under discussion proposes to amend the legislation on incitement against the people as laid down in the Penal Code. This initiative is timely and very important from the point of view of citizens' freedom of expression and the realisation of fundamental rights. The bill proposes that only threats against the group referred to in the law and incitement to such a crime would continue to be punishable. In addition, the initiative proposes to amend the law so that in future the liability for punishment will no longer apply to making information or opinions available to the public, dissemination to the public and public access to it. The threat of punishment would therefore only be linked to messages other than information and opinions in the future. Mr President! The principle of criminal law laid down in Article 8 of the Constitution includes a specific requirement of precision which has been applied in practice by the Constitutional Committee. It states that the constituent elements of each offence must be expressed by law with sufficient precision, so that the wording of the provision makes it foreseeable whether an act or omission is punishable. The current law on incitement to the people is too broad and open to interpretation, and I do not believe that it meets this requirement of precision mentioned above. At the moment, it is very difficult for citizens to see where the limit of permitted and forbidden expression of opinion runs. The situation is the same as if traffic rules were to prohibit speeding, but traffic signs would be missing along roads and no one would know where the allowed speed is. Since no one now knows where the limit of permitted and forbidden expression of opinion runs, it reduces the courage of citizens to engage in, for example, a critical debate on immigration. Mr President! Freedom of expression is the constitutional right of the citizens and the basis of the democratic rule of law. The restrictions on freedom of expression must always be dealt with with with great caution and criticalness. There must also be room for controversial and provocative opinions in a democratic society. All social issues and problems must be subject to public debate. Without critical civil dialogue, the scientific, cultural and other development of society will stop. It must also be understood that the censorship of freedom of expression leads, at its worst, to the bitterness of the people, to the division of the people and to social instability. The public's opinions and social realities are not lost by the ban on saying them out loud. Mr President! The bill of the Finns Party would bring clarity to the present situation. This change would make legislation clear, precise, precise and predictable. On the basis of these arguments, Mr President, I am therefore in favour of this initiative by the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u135	Do you want to go to the debatt?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u136	Madam President! There is a bill on the amendment of the section on incitement against the People's Party tabled by the Finnish People's Party, and we are also talking about freedom of expression, which is a fundamental right of every human being. The Finns raised this theme also during Question Time, after which a lot of questions and messages came from the citizens. One good call was when an old man called me and said that I couldn't even call the People's Radio and tell my opinion anymore. People are afraid of what they can say, what is their freedom of speech and whether they may be legally held responsible for what they say. In other words, this really is in people's minds, what we can no longer say in Finland. 20. On November, in Helsingin Sanomat, Prosecutor General Raija Toiviainen stated that everyone should understand what the article in the law refers to as ‘inciting against a group of people’, but he also stated that he would be prepared to consider whether the criminal law could be specified in relation to the arousal clause, and that the idea of discrimination against a particular group of people could be clarified in some way. He thus stated that the rule could be sharpened in some way. I understand, however, that the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, did not warm up to this idea. However, I think it is very important that we inform people and tell them what we can say in Finland, and that it is the duty of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, so that Finns know what is the line of freedom of expression in this modern-day Finland. It is very important that we can speak, we can say, we can tell what we think, and especially that someone define what is hate speech. There is a lot of talk about hate speech, but in the end that definition is quite open what it means. I hope for a good debate and I hope that the Finnish people's bill will receive support in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u137	Mr President! ‘I am not with the same mind but with the right to This statement by the educational philosopher Voltaire describes the essence of freedom of speech. Freedom of expression and freedom of religion have been taken for granted in Finland as acquired rights in our fine free society. They are fundamental pillars of Western liberal democracy and are protected in Finland by the Constitution. Recently, however, more Finns have had to ask me what I can say, what information I can refer to, what I can laugh at, what I can believe in. According to the Finnish Constitution, everyone has freedom of expression. It shall include the right to express, publish and receive information, opinions and other messages without prejudice to anyone. Freedom of expression can only be restricted in order to protect another right. What is the legal right for which freedom of expression can and should be restricted? How much in a free society must one be prepared to tolerate indignation, even injury? Where is the boundary of the permitted and forbidden view? This is the case with the bill now before us on the amendment of the article on incitement to a people's group in criminal law. The bill does not propose the removal of the arousal clause. It proposes to amend the article so that it becomes punishable by the threat of a crime against a group of people within the meaning of the law and by incitement to such a crime. The essential difference between the current situation and the legislative initiative is that the bill should no longer be regarded as punishable by slander and abuse on the grounds of the characteristics of the people mentioned in the law. Furthermore, disclosure would no longer be considered to be punishable. It should be noted that the bill also does not provide for the abolition of defamation of individual persons from criminal law. It is therefore a question of limiting and clarifying the characterisation of the arousal clause. I believe that the objective of the bill to specify Chapter 11 of the Criminal Code, Section 10, is necessary. At the time, the Legal Affairs Committee considered that the changes to be made would not be of major importance in the context of the current arousal clause in 2010. However, practice has shown that the article in its current form is ambiguous, even difficult to understand. Even the police and the prosecutor have interpreted it differently in individual cases. How, then, would a citizen be able to judge what he or she is getting and what he is not allowed to say in every situation? Also the Prosecutor General In his interview, Mrs Toiviainen pointed out that the section might require clarifications. It is not only a question of freedom of expression but also of freedom of religion. The expression of knowledge, opinion or own conviction and the resulting possible cause of social evil should not, as such, lead to an investigation or criminal prosecution, let alone a conviction. The arousal clause is also interpreted as being regarded as being punishable by the requirement to keep the message at the disposal of the public, regardless of the fact that the article has been written. For example, an article still available on the web published for the first time 15 years ago by Mr Räsänen has led to an investigation. This view of a continuing offence of arousal seems unreasonable. Wrong opinion is like a murder that never grows old. Where does this lead in practice? Shall we go through the libraries next and remove all offensive works? As far as the old archival sketches are concerned, it appears that a preliminary phase of the investigation is already under way. It cannot be that, in taking a stand on matters, people should not only be able to comply with existing legislation but also be able to anticipate any future legislative changes. From the point of view of legal certainty and the prohibition of retroactive legislation: an impossible situation. I think it is clear that the change in the arousal clause that entered into force in 2011 has failed. The police are doing their work in investigations, which is understandable, but inaction and unclear legislation is a matter for the legislator. The ambiguity of the provision, even the lack of clarity, is a problem in terms of individual legal protection and the actual exercise of individual freedom of expression. Self-censorship increased, conversation narrows down. According to the doctrine of restricting fundamental rights, as a law restricting freedom of expression enshrined in the Constitution, it is precisely the law that should be precise and precise. In the public debate, it has been emphasised that Finland's international obligations limit Finland's ability to act with the arousal clause. This is true in itself. However, I believe that Finland has room for manoeuvre from the point of view of international obligations as to how criminalisation is to be carried out. A reservation to the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime will increase mobility. Mr President! Commonly accepted and frivolous views rarely require the protection of freedom of expression. On the other hand, socially controversial, even offensive, views need to be found. Aggravating one’s mind cannot be a reason to restrict the freedom of one’s speech and religion to an extent. Which country needs more: tolerance that does not tolerate the freedom of others, or tolerance that tolerates the freedom of others? I think that tolerating injury is the price we should all be willing to pay for a free society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u139	Madam President! Freedom of expression can be understood and understood in very different ways. I personally see that freedom of speech legislation is primarily a task of protecting the individual from institutions. Without free debate and questioning there will be neither democracy nor development. On the contrary, many see it as the duty of the law to protect institutions and prevailing truths and beliefs from the individual. Such institutions include authorities, politicians and the media. This thinking is reflected, for example, by the demands for criminalisation of so - called paint. In practice, this would mean that if a public authority or a journalist expressed political views in public it would, at least by name, be criminal to criticise the authority or journalist in question. In the current legislation, a key tool of opinion-sensitivity and arbitrage is a section of the Penal Code on incitement against the people. It is problematic in many respects. In addition to what has been mentioned earlier, I would like to highlight a number of points. First of all, this piece of legislation puts people in an unequal position. Although the law does not mention any specific groups, the case law and many official statements make it clear that the law only prohibits statements that are unsatisfied to certain groups. One of the cornerstones of the rule of law is that people are equal before the law and that the law also protects all people, regardless of their background. Secondly, this law is vague and open to interpretation. By reading the law, it is impossible to know in advance whether a statement is illegal or not. If the police and the prosecutor disagree with one another as to the legality of a statement, or the court of appeal and the Supreme Court, how can such an interpretation be required of an ordinary citizen? I think that's the point. When you don't know for sure, people will be quiet just to be safe. There is no need for censorship if legislation drives people into self-censorship. In fact, the suppression of freedom of expression took place in exactly the same way in the Soviet Union. There, too, the Constitution guaranteed freedom of expression. However, everyone knew that the legislation on incitement, incitement and hooliganism was very flexible in its interpretation and that any unpleasant expression from the point of view of power or prevailing social ideology led to prosecution, conviction and other difficulties. Many ask why incitement to hatred should be allowed. That's not what this is about. It is all about what is considered a criminal incitement to hatred. The Bill of Fundamental Finns suggests that threats of violence or incitement to violence fall within the scope of criminalisation. We therefore propose that the content of the article be consistent with the title of the offence. Now the article also contains expressions that do not excite anyone. The hate speech legislation represents the creeping totalitarianism. It is a weapon used to persecute and silence those who are politically wrong. Many people are opposed to the politics of the Finns and therefore feel the joy of being investigated, accused and convicted under this law. However, such legislation is a sort of Frankenstein monster. Those who support hate speech laws who have created this monster and feed it think they are safe from it. When they themselves fall victim to it, they are surprised that this was not to apply only to the True Finns. Recently, much has been said about a criminal investigation into Räsänen, which is related to the quoting of the Bible. Mr Räsänen himself has rightly highlighted the absurdity of this investigation, and I am not going to go into it. I would point out, however, that even in 2015, representative Räsänen was actively involved in stoning the representative of the Finns of Peru, Immos, whose multicultural writing made a big fuss. At that time, Mr Räsänen said: 'Anger speech is dangerous because it unfortunately often leads to acts of hatred'. In my opinion, the worst thing about politics is that people do not have principles that apply to all the cases that arise. Instead of permanent principles, there is political appropriateness and case-by-case reflection. In this respect, I am very proud of my party. We will defend you, Mr Räsänen, knowing that you will not defend us and you will not defend us. I hope you will think about this for a moment. In recent days, both politicians and journalists and legal scholars have been wondering about criminal investigations into decades-old sketches. However, until a moment ago, the same people felt that the arousal was quite clear enough. However, the text of the law allows for such interpretations if the interpreter is sufficiently fanatical. Mr President! Inflammatory in its present form does not protect peoples from dangerous arousal or other harm. It aims to protect people from injury and evil mind. Protecting against evil by a criminal law is dangerous because it makes people unable to deal with bad minds. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u140	Let's have a little debat for this, if that's what we're gonna do. I would ask the Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u141	Mr President! Mr Halla-aho here, as a direct quote, said just now that ‘the restriction of hate speech is totalitarianism’. Rather, on the contrary, hate speech is open totalitarianism. It is worth remembering that there has been a good debate here on freedom of expression as a principle. We all share it. Freedom of expression is one of the most important fundamental rights in Finnish society, and so it should be, but it cannot be used as a bubvan for slander and abusive speech as is now used in this debate. All international human rights conventions, including the European Convention on Human Rights as such, are based on the fact that human abuse, mental or physical abuse, is not allowed. In this respect, freedom of expression, if it is mental abuse, cannot be possible. That is precisely what international human rights treaties are restricting. Where there is a limit, many speakers ask where to put the limit on what is in this arousal. Where's the line?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u145	Madam President! It is good that this issue of freedom of expression has been taken up here in the debate. I am going to speak on this myself, but that is what I would like to comment on that speech by Mrs Halla-aho when she claimed that I would have been stoning Mr Immos in 2015. I was rather surprised at that statement. It's come before. I myself correctly checked from there in 2015 my blog article to which it refers, and I do not think that Mr Immos is in any way stoning. I still sign that sentence on hate speech and I'll explain it in more detail. But I do deny that I would have been stoning Mr Immos, and I wish you would tell me where I have done this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u146	Mr President! I would like to ask Mr Kiljunen a question: do you know what the limit and definition of hate speech and angry speech are, could you tell me?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u148	Madam President! I would like to remind this House that freedom of expression is not an absolute fundamental right, but we have a number of fundamental rights which are comparable, subject to others. I would also like to remind you that Finland is explicitly bound by international agreements to ensure that incitement against the people cannot be removed from criminal law. [Base Finns Group :Nowhere to leave!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u150	Madam President! Mr Forsgrén apparently ignored this previous debate for one reason or another and failed to read this bill. After all, the bill does not suggest that incitement against the peoples should be removed from the criminal code, but that vague elements should be removed so that the law is clear and legal certainty would be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u151	Mr President! Representative Mäenpää asked me where the line between hate speech and angry speech runs. I'm going to ask Congressman Mäenpää where the line between punching and punching runs. These are, in the same way, definition issues,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u154	Mr President! The injury is part of all the debatts. When there is an exchange of views, so that it can be conducted freely, there is always a risk that another person will get hurt — especially in politics — it is part of the political debate. As such, it is good that a few representatives of the government are present. I would like to have more arguments and hear them, because now those arguments do not sound very convincing when you start talking about assault, even though there is a pretty clear line.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u157	Mr President! Mr Forsgrén: I agree that it is not possible, in terms of international obligations, to remove this piece of incitement from criminal law, but the same interview to which you referred pointed out that, according to some experts, Finland actually has such a margin of manoeuvre. In 70 C.E., when this arousal was introduced into the Criminal Code, it was specifically linked to this International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination of the United Nations, its ratification, and it should now be noted that this amendment, which entered into force in 2011, relating to the adoption of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime, brought into this article in particular elements which have proved problematic in the context of its application. In this regard, Finland has indeed made the reservation to which I referred in my own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u158	Mr President! I would have expected Mr Kiljunen to draw a closer line on this, because if the legislator is not able to assess this line properly, then we will be in trouble. This vagueness in itself is familiar with history. For example, Article 70(2) of the Soviet Union banned the dissemination of propaganda and false information aimed at criticising the political and social system of the Soviet Union. Doesn't ring a bell?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u159	Mr President! Mr Junnila and Mr Tavio are right in saying that it is difficult for me to define the limit on abuse, mental abuse in a genuine way or slander and incitement to the people. As legislator, I certainly have difficulty in defining that precise limit. But so was Mr. Tavio’s difficulty in determining the limit when I asked him where there was a limit to punching and punching when it came to determining abuse. And you told me the answer: I can't draw the line. The court has to draw the line. I also appeal to the same thing: we have legislation, and it is then up to the Court of Justice to see where this abuse has become so difficult on the spiritual side that it meets the criteria for incitement to the people. I think that's enough to answer that question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u160	Mr President! Indeed, in that debut, there was not enough time for a minute’s answer to begin to analyze the assault and this. But now we're talking about a completely different section. It's a completely different crime. I mean, assault is a direct assault on that victim. The right to justice protected by assault is the physical integrity of a person. On the other hand, as I explained in my opening speech, there is no such clear justice to be found because it does not directly offend anyone. However, here in the West, we have thought to a large extent that there must be a direct consequence in order for that activity to be criminal. When I have asked the legal scholars, I have noticed that this is very difficult for them to define, and they too have only replied that, as it were, when they were led to the idea of creating those crimes. So the Finns of Peru would like to see these crimes
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u161	Mr President! In this debate, however, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I heard a couple of speeches ago that it was stated from the Group of the Finns Party that it would have allowed more members of the government parties to participate in this debate. After all, that is not the way the legislative initiatives and the debates work. These legislative initiatives, which are taken by Members of Parliament, have a wide range of legislative initiatives. Many of us are signatories to both the Government Party and the opposition party, and here, most of us are perhaps mainly representing our own opinion and our own commitment when we have written in the bill under the name, so there is no point in drawing the line here, in this context too, in the course of this legislative initiative, that there should be representatives of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u162	Mr President! Don't worry, I'm aware of what your bill is, I've read it. I would have addressed my next comment to Mr Vestman, but he was quite quick to leave. He said that there might be room for manoeuvre here when, for example, in this same article, Sakari Melander, a professor of criminal law at the University of Helsinki, said: “The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) also expressed wide support for a banned hate speech. As far as I can see, there is little room for manoeuvre in Finnish legislation to change even the kind of act that would be punishable by incitement against the people’s group.”
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u163	Mr President! Here, however, I would like to remind you that, in practice, today's arousal does not protect all groups equally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u166	Mr President! There has been a debate here about hate speech, and I think that the concept exists and it happens in society and among us, and it is certainly good for everyone to think about their own speeches,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, the response button has now been decommissioned. Let us now move on to the list of speakers, but I will take the requests that have been made during the previous President's term, and everyone who wishes to be included will be included in the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u170	Mr President! We have often heard in the Constitutional Committee and in public the director of the Centre for Parliamentary Studies, Markku Jokisipila, who constantly reminds us that hate speech is not a defined term. Nevertheless, as Mr Räsänen said, it has appeared in this debate, too, that hate speech and hate speech. I would like to say from him this quote on 19.12.2017. The river pilfer states: ‘Animosity, and feelings cannot becriminated. Freedom of expression also includes the right to express opinions that may offend or upset certain groups of people. The hate speech term easily turns into a tool for suppressing the debate, even for political chases.” And this is the thoughts of the river, so we're not alone. This is not the thinking of the Finns on their own.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u171	Representatives Mäkelä and Juvonen still, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u172	Mr President! In my actual speech, I will take a broader view of the subject matter and aspects that may not yet have been mentioned in several reports. But in this context I would like to correct a very general passing on this subject that is what we are talking about at all. This is not about whether a speech is pleasant. This is not about whether someone's speech represents the culture of the heart, as was said from the point of view of the assembly, when I was passing on this matter during Question Time. That's not the point. It is a question of what society criminalises, what society fights with its monopoly of violence, against the individual, silenting the individual, taking him to police hearings, giving him a conviction, perhaps even a prison sentence, at least in theory, that is possible on the basis of law. Now we are talking about matters of this degree of seriousness, not some golden book of good conduct.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u173	And Mr Juvonen and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u174	Mr President! Indeed, the Prosecutor General Raija Toiviainen has stated that he would be willing to consider whether the criminal law on the arousal clause could be specified. In my opinion, this is a rather important message that we need to hear, although the Minister of Justice was not now enthusiastic about this. It has also been very confusing that complaints have been made about, among other things, old television sets and old sketches and whether it is an arousal against the people. The Minister of Justice replied on 23 November that this is a little strange. But amazement and amazement do not help, but we really need to ask ourselves whether this law should be specified in any way, and the Finns of Finland have a good proposal and a good proposal for it. As for whether or not we are discussing a legislative initiative here: I think it is a great thing that Members of Parliament are also interested in discussing legal initiatives by others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u175	Back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u176	Mr President! I warmly support this bill. After recent events, it is quite clear that the law against incitement to the populace needs prompt correction. The U.S. Attorney’s office has set out to brush the law in force with a rather wide brush, watering it here in an apparently intense state. However, in an interview with Helsingin Sanomat on 20 November, he himself admits that the provision should be clarified and sharpened. The People's Party of Finland agrees with this, and that is why we have now submitted this bill. Mr President! Our legislation is based on the principle of legality, i.e. no one must retroactively be held guilty of a crime or sentenced to punishment on the basis of an act which, at the time of the act, is not punishable by law. The principle of legality also includes a requirement of punctuality. The law should accurately show which acts are punishable, that is, the law must not be vague. These are fundamental principles of law that protect citizens against the arbitrariness of public authorities. So the law should be so well defined that everyone knows what acts are illegal. The interpretation of the law must also be predictable. It must not change because of who is at the highest level of legal office or government in our country. Now, however, this has happened. In his interview, the current Prosecutor General, among other things, states that the context matters. For example, does the speaker still agree with what was sometimes said or written? It would be interesting to know what legal point this is based on. Yes, the fact that effective repentance could avoid the pursuit of the prosecutor is a curious idea. I mean, if you don't regret it, you'll be intimidated by action. Mr President! Threatening and inciting criminal acts is also reprehensible on the subject, and the Finnish Parliament Group does not propose any change. At present, however, incitement to the people is such an interpretative law that an opinionist cannot know in advance whether or not he is violating it. The interpretation of the law has also been arbitrary in such a way that it may have been possible to initiate an investigation or not to investigate a similar act, depending on the person who expressed the opinion. Such discretion and selective use of legal terms is of a political nature and seeks to suppress the debate on certain subjects and to define the limits of freedom of expression very narrowly. However, the law should be neutral and the same for all. According to the works of the law, only minority groups will be protected against incitement to popular groups. The interpretations of the courts have supported this idea. So the law is not equal, as criminal law should be. I wonder why minorities should be allowed different freedoms in relation to the majority of the population. Mr President! Article 19 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights reads as follows: ‘Everyone has a right to freedom of opinion and a right to freedom of expression, without prejudice to his or her right to have his or her opinion held and to have his or her Article 30 of the Declaration states:‘In any of this Declaration,the interpreting body Freedom of expression is one of the fundamental rights and pillars on which our entire Western society is built. Indeed, the first sign of an unfair social order is often the lack of freedom of expression. Such a North Korean freedom of expression, in which anything can be said of anything, but the consequences must suffer, is hardly freedom of speech at all. The Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, said in a public hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs that in recent years the so-called hate speech in Europe has increased. I believe that the now termed hate speech is the beginning of this popular uproar from 2015, when European states allowed uncontrolled entry to begin. This angered the public and began to criticise the action with the words and skills that each person has at his disposal. Not everyone knows how to do it civilizedly. Now that the consequences are visible in the everyday lives of many, it seems that there has been an emergency and attempts are being made to block the mouths even from the representatives of the people. We're not afraid. But many ordinary citizens have to wonder what they can say. We're on a very escalating surface. Instead of trying to reduce this annoying policy, legislators shut people up. Not like this. Bad and rude behaviour and criminal activity are not the same thing, and that is why this law should be proposed. And I must say now that when you start digging up the beliefs of a Member of Parliament or the old sketches of another — the best comedian in the country, in my opinion — you are in a total forest. Rather, if the Prosecutor General is stimulated in this way, perhaps his actions should be investigated. But we do what we can, and in this case it is a change of law. Now we have to before we're at the stakes of book and dissidents. Mr President! Freedom of speech either exists or it does not exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u177	Mr President! This is where Mr Mäkelä summed up very recently the fact that we are talking about a criminal law act. We are not talking about what is nice to anyone or whether we should set standards of conduct or whether we could agree here to call him Mr President or something else, as President, or what we should be discussing here. That is not the point, it is precisely as Mäkelä said that this violence machine is attacking us, and criminal justice is always the last resort to intervene. The problem with this section is that this is in no way predictable. People can't do the right thing on the basis of that. The role of criminal law is to guide people's behaviour, prevent crime and criminal activity. But when a person does not know when he is guilty of this so - called arousal against the people, it rests with speculation. That is where representative Immonen of the Finns of Peru took a good example of this speed limit. I myself wondered that if you were to read on a wall somewhere between 60 and 80, and then afterwards we would see whether it was 60 or 70, then we would certainly be absolutely horrified here and say that this is something that needs to be tackled. People need to be able to discuss things. As I mentioned just now, Markku Jokipipilä, Director of the Centre for Parliamentary Research, has often referred to this hate speech as not being defined, even though it is used and invoked here in the minister's box. And as he said, people must be able to express angry feelings. This is like some kind of anger control. He also states in this same interview that this can also be turned around in such a way that if people are taken to the verbal expression of disappointment and hatred, it sooner or later will erupt along other routes and much more dangerously. In fact, quite the opposite, perhaps what Mr Räsänen said earlier, is that hate speech easily leads to action. At least the river urchin saw this also in such a way that if a person is deprived of the opportunity to speak, it will somehow erupt. And we are always told that we need to talk about things and, as Mr Rantanen has just said very well, everyone does so in their own way. Of course, you can always think about how you say things, but not everyone says them the same way — there comes a little of them. It's not like I'm gonna pass out. I've heard a lot of those things myself. I was just thinking about where this is going, that is to say, this self-censorship and pre-censorship. These apologies are starting to run low, and people beat themselves up in advance just in case a prosecutor got excited. You don't worry about the majority. On one occasion the morning post office, a local newspaper, said that the drunk tank would be closed. Then I wonder if they're all drunks who've been there all night. But it didn't bother anyone, because there were Finnish men there. Or an old series called "OnViljoonäny? ‘orUunoPurhapuro. It laughs at the caricature of a Finnish man when it comes to caricature, and I'm sure none of us have yet thought about asking Uuno for an investigation. [Standard Call] And if you think about these fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression or the right to a healthy environment or the principle of legality and so on, they are all equally important fundamental rights. Perhaps the right to life is one that is at the highest level when Mr Forsgré was considering these. No legal literature has been able to give them any real priority at the moment; they always have these tensions. But if you think about this, what the Finns are now proposing, it is fulfilling both the principle of legality and freedom of expression. I do not see that what would be such a good thing there, which should in particular be protected in respect of a particular population. Whatever minority it is, I do not really see the fundamental right that should be protected there. Maybe Forsgrén will open up even more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u178	Mr President! What is freedom of speech? Without freedom, freedom of expression ceases to exist. Everyone must be allowed to insult and criticise all religions, peoples, groups of people, hockey teams or political ideas or any other collective groupings or sects. If something badly, harshly, or grossly said or expressed was a despicable act, it should not be confused with legalism. The picture of the President and the pig of the United States published last year by Helsingin Sanomat is also part of freedom of speech. At the time, Mr Päivi Räsänen said that the government had to intervene. No, you don't. The government has no business interfering with the content of the private publisher. The plaintiffs may charge you with slander if they so wish. However, in our legislation the bar of slander is much higher for politicians, and that is a good thing. The publication and ordering of left-wing propaganda must also be possible under the law. Similarly, criticism of the activities of our tax officials and freedom of assembly are part of Western society. The resistance movement and the Communist parties must also have the right to spread their opinions. Denial and censorship act paradoxically, just as those who support these ideas would believe themselves to act upon entering power. The fact that you may be held accountable for your bad behavior before your community or employer is quite another matter. That too should not be confused with legalism. Everyone responds to what they say. Stupidity is not a crime. Mr President! If the arousal against the people was actually used as originally intended, to incite violence, for example, against Muslims or Christians, it would defend its place in the law. Now it is used as a political weapon to persecute and censor dissidents. There is no difference between the DDR and the other Communist countries in any way. Freedom of speech either is or is not. There's nothing in between. There is no such thing in Finland at the moment, as MPs are on trial for their statements. This means that the authorities are working on democracy, and that is a huge problem. Even precensorship is still strictly prohibited by law, even if you do not always believe it when you look at what is happening today. The authorities are pressing charges to create an atmosphere of fear in which the most fearful are considering whether to dare to say this or that any more. The most pathetic thing is to publicly apologize for the past life that has risen to popular favor and thus represent the people. Mr President! I am in favour of this initiative by the Finns. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u179	Mr President! Today, the law of incitement against the people is used unjustly to restrict civil dialogue. In particular, efforts are being made to bring the critical debate on immigration into the sphere of censorship and self-censorship through more arbitrary interpretations of the law. Until now, mainly the mainstream media have tried to deliver the office of the Court of Justice in the fight against so-called misconceptions by citizens about immigration. However, the success of parties that are critical of immigration in Finland and elsewhere in the West shows that the mainstream media is no longer able to manipulate the public or to conceal the disadvantages of immigration. Parliament also has its own history of self-censorship in the immigration debate. Before the parliamentary elections in 2003, all parliamentary parties except the Finns decided that the immigration debate would not be politicised so to speak, i.e. it should not be dealt with critically. In Sweden, even today, when there is an assembly that apologises for the silence of those who criticised immigration, Finland is threatening to remain Europe's rear junta with its opinion-sensors. Mr President! More efforts are being made to transfer responsibility for the constraint of civil dialogue to unelected officials. Officials are apparently being given a special right to protect themselves from citizens' criticisms by attempting to criminalise the so-called target of officials. This is being promoted today by a bill for the debate on referrals on the criminalisation of the targeting of public authorities. Is it the case that, while elected politicians' criticism of immigration is labeled as incitement and hate speech, an unelected civil servant is allowed to express his political opinions in his working time, paid by taxpayers, without being allowed to criticise or parody them? Such a development is an increase in civil service power at the expense of democracy. Let me finish by quoting a little wisdom from George Washington: ‘If freedom of speech is removed,we may be led by fools and silences like sheep for slaughter. “ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u180	Mr President! The judge’s instructions say: ‘What is not a right and a right,thereis no law;for the sake of fairness,which is a law,it is accepted. “ It is precisely on this issue that we are discussing tonight whether a law is right and fair and whether it is justified and approved by the people. After all, all the legislative powers will eventually leave the people. We are here as representatives of the people. The question has been raised here as to what right is protected by this section of the law. Personally, I would be going to interpret the right to justice through the chapter in which this article is contained in the Criminal Code. It is located in a chapter dealing with crimes against humanity and war crimes. This law must therefore be mirrored against the framework of reference as to whether, in the case of an act, it can now be claimed with a serious face that such a crime against humanity or a war crime has taken place. Personally, I would argue that most acts that are condemned in Finland as an arousal against the people cannot say with a serious face that there has been a crime against humanity or a war crime. On the other hand, the majestic crime that Mr Mäkynen mentioned earlier is an excellent expression of the situation in this area, because during the time of Russian rule there were a number of MPs who were specifically convicted of the majestic crime. The question now arises as to whether this inciting against the people now, under the EU's rule, will be the new majestic crime of which even the sentenced parliamentarians will be more and more seated in this Chamber. When this law, which we are now proposing to amend, was enacted and came into force, there was a fear that it would, in principle, allow anyone to be sentenced from anywhere to two years in prison. This accusation sounded rather absurd at the time, but now, with the politicisation of the prosecution's office, these extraordinary interpretations are already a brutal reality, as we have had to hear. An interesting flaw in this article is that this does not call for the falsehood of these slanderous, abusive claims, but it is quite possible that this two-year imprisonment will be sentenced to full truth. For example, in defamation of an individual, the claim that is made must be false. If it is true, it does not meet the definition of defamation. Now that this article is so vague and open to interpretation, case law and the importance of the reasoning and presentations of the law in its interpretation are gaining disproportionate and untenable weight. The interpretation is always about the person and attitudes of the interpreter. The interpretation is carried out by individuals. Interpreting easily becomes the opinion of an individual person. An individual police officer may decide whether or not to continue the investigation of crimes, and the policeman may also make public political statements, as has been demonstrated in these investigations against MPs. Minister of Justice Henriksson said to the public that reading the Bible aloud is not a crime. This statement puzzled me greatly, because at least I do not know whether it is a crime. How does the Minister know if it's a crime? And now, if someone follows his advice and reads the Bible aloud and gets involved in a criminal investigation, can the minister take charge of this person? In my opinion, this is not possible under the rule of law. Mr Vestman gave a good speech in many respects, but I particularly drew attention to the room for manoeuvre in international agreements mentioned in the speech. There is room for manoeuvre, although different constitutional imams, with great power, claim otherwise. This change, which we are now presenting, is in our own hands. I discussed the Justice State Seminar yesterday, and it covered this topic from the point of view that various major powers are using seemingly voluntary means of exerting pressure to remove the content of social media platforms. This is done by operators such as China, but the EU is also putting pressure on social media platforms to remove content, even without the right decision to incite this kind of incitement against the people, only on the basis of certain declarations made by different trusted parties. The Finnish Government also supports this activity, contrary to what Prime Minister Rinne said incorrectly at Question Time. It is true that legislation on freedom of expression is open to interpretation. If this presentation were to be carried out, it would also be interpreted as whether there has been a threat of a crime as intended by law or an incitement to another crime. However, this interpretation would be made on an understandable and healthy basis, which the citizen could better anticipate. That is why I warmly support this bill, the time for which has come.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u181	Mr President! Freedom of expression is currently threatened in Finnish society in many different ways. Growing hate speech and online hatred limit the freedom of expression and democratic participation of minorities in particular. A recent study of municipal policy at the University of Jyväskylä showed that women suffer more from hate speech than men. Because of hate speech, many people are afraid to run for election or deliberately avoid certain political issues. In particular, issues relating to immigration, equality and gender equality are political themes that defenders of human rights often experience hate speech and online hatred. This is not new either, according to international studies, which show how racism and hatred of women are closely intertwined. This bill under discussion speaks of freedom of expression, but ignores, for example, the UN Anti-Racial Discrimination Treaty, which, among other things, calls for the criminalisation of all the spreading of ideas based on racial superiority or hatred and incitement to racial discrimination. In fact, this bill is aimed at enabling an ever-increasingly free, abusive, violent speech against minorities. So it's more of a gimmick that we know and others know. The initiative seeks to justify its cause by means of freedom of expression but deliberately ignores, for example, equality and the explicit requirements of the central UN Convention on Human Rights, the Racial Discrimination Convention, for criminalising certain acts which are at the root of the article on incitement to the people. The initiative also ignores, among other things, the prohibition of abuse of rights contained in the European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. that the articles of the Convention on Human Rights do not justify any action aimed at undermining any other right or freedom recognised by the Convention on Human Rights. In addition, the limitation that this article only deals with messages other than information or opinions is unclear and threatens to nullify the whole section. How would this be interpreted? What kind of message would be left out of these, meaning that there would be no more information than opinion? The content of such a provision would therefore be left to the interpretation of the courts. In practice, such a delimitation would threaten to turn the entire provision into a dead letter, which is certainly the goal of the Finns of Peru. It is also appropriate to ask what is the interest and motivation to make such a change of law. Contrary to what the Finns claim, the freedom of speech situation in Finland is not a problem, but the country is at the forefront of measurements in the realisation of freedom of speech. Instead, freedom of expression in Finland is currently threatened mainly by online hate speech, harassment and harassment aimed at deterring, for example, those who defend human rights. So it is not true that nothing should be said again, even though those around the extreme right seem to be making reports of crimes from old TV shows. Furthermore, the criminalisation of hate speech does not limit the aggressive, political and social stance. The critical social debate is still very welcome and, in fact, I would like to see much more of that critical and angry social debate. The fact is that inequality angers and angers, and there must be channels to convey this message. Interestingly, the provision on incitement against the people does not seem to present problems with the exercise of freedom of expression for the majority of the population. It is therefore also possible to have a debate on sensitive social issues that respects human dignity. There have been relatively few judgments under the provision, and even though the majority of the population are in social media for example, for some reason it seems difficult for Finns mainly to formulate their political positions, for example, in such a way that whole groups of peoples would not be insulted by racist generalisations based on, for example, skin colour, religion or origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u182	Mr President! It can be concluded from this debate that freedom of expression is indeed a topical subject for debate and is on order. In connection with this debate, I drew attention to the argument raised by Mrs Halla-aho, which I shall return to when you said in your speech that I would have been stoning Mr Immos in 2015. This claim came against me at some point before, and I was still studying my own writings from that time, and I cannot find such a stoning message there. I hope that Mr Immonen himself will now tell us where the stones have flown. I did write a blog on immigration at the time of Mr Immonen's public debate on immigration policy, and in that connection I said that hate speech could lead to hatred, but I was not pressing any charges or even, as I recall, mentioning Mr Immo. You can check it there. I have certainly not been claiming that Mr Immonen was guilty of some illegal speech. I do not blame you, Mrs Halla-aho, for the hate speech on this statement, but I would now like to say that your statement was not true. In the debate on freedom of speech, when the quoting of the Bible has been on display in recent days and even controversial, I quote the Bible in connection with hate speech, if permitted by the President. [Second Vice-PresidentJuhoEerola :No,at least before you have proposed. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u187	Mr President! I felt that it was reasonable to reply as a representative Mr Räsänen has asked me a few times to clarify my previous speech. I am referring, therefore, to the blog article published in 2015 by representative Räsänen, of which KD magazine, the Christian Democrats magazine, wrote an article, and since this article has been written by Christian Democrats Party Secretary Asmo Maaselkä, I would say that it quotes Mr Räsä correctly. This is precisely to suggest that your blog article is a statement to the ups and downs of Olli Immonen's Facebook update, and instead of you defending Olli Immos in any way against these hate accusations or appealing to freedom of expression, you, like all the other speakers back then, say that hate speech is dangerous, because it unfortunately often leads to hate. Well now you have rightly stressed today that what is hate speech. It has not been defined, but four years ago it did not seem to be a problem for you either. In addition to many other wise things, the Bible says that do to another as you would like to be done, and I hope that all of us here will adhere to this high standard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u188	Mr President! I myself found this comment by Asmo Maaselä in KD magazine, where he had linked this to my blog, but in that blog article I am not talking about representative Immonen, but I was talking about immigration policy in general and I was talking about this hate speech. Of course, these speeches can be revised afterwards. But even if I had also spoken to and referred to Mr Immonen, I am sure that the debate was then held on the basis of Mr Immonen's Facebook update, I do not think I have at any time rejected his right to freedom of expression. Is it not right to have such a lively debate on immigration policy, for example, through various blogs and social media debates, and to allow others to have that freedom of expression even if they disagree? And you can react to it in your own blogs and Facebook updates, but you should not go to court. And I haven't done it, and I haven't been stoned by Congressman Immos.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u189	This is not going to the wider debate, but Mr Junnila there seemed very much to want to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u190	Mr President! When I am from Naantali’s sun, I cannot help but look for sun - related messages in the Bible. After all, it has been quoted a great many times here, and it seems to be also the subject of an investigation. But sometimes we talk about anger. In Finland, the legal solution seems to be that a politician says something, then an investigation is under way, and the result is likely to be a fine. But the Bible says: “Even though you hate, do not sin. Make up your quarrels before the sun sets.” This could also be followed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u191	In November, the sun has set early. — Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u192	Mr President! Indeed, this is the subject of a bill by the Finnish Parliament Group on incitement to change the section of the penal code. The primary content of this bill is the clarification of that article so that it would be punishable by a threat or incitement to such an act by a group of persons, such as race, religion, sexual orientation or disability within the meaning of the law. Dissemination of information or opinion would not be punishable. This wording would make the legislation much more precise and precise in this regard and therefore considerably less open to interpretation. Mr President! In recent public debates, it has been seen on many occasions that the presentation of religious beliefs, political opinions or even low-quality humor can lead to the initiation of a criminal procedure or a pre-trial investigation. I find this situation particularly strange, especially because some of these acts under investigation have been carried out for years or even decades ago under very clearly different circumstances from the current climate of discussion. And all this has happened despite the fact that the prohibition of retroactive legislation in the Western judicial system is a generally recognised principle. Mr President! The very unclear definition of hate speech is problematic because of its inaccuracies and all too often leads to unnecessary self-censorship, even though freedom of speech is rightly regarded as an important cornerstone of the Western social system. The interpretation of whether or not a single statement is still without a clear definition of hate speech is even difficult for the authorities, not to mention the individual citizen. As has been said several times in this debate, the possibility of expressing opinions in a democratic society is very important. Fairness is a good guiding principle, but it cannot be required that the speaker or author should be able to anticipate all possible and impossible interpretations. It is completely impossible, humanly speaking. Mr President! The Finns of Peru want to correct this legal flaw, and we have therefore drawn up and signed this bill. I hope that it will be properly dealt with by Parliament and, of course, that it will improve the legal protection of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u193	Mr President! I have been concerned about recent developments in Finland regarding freedom of expression. In the past decades, both in Europe and in Finland, efforts have been made to remove the legal provisions restricting freedom of expression. This has been a natural development in Europe, especially since the fall of the Berlin Wall. We should continue along this path of development in the future, which is supported by this bill tabled by the Group of Finnish People's Party. However, it seems that the forces that see themselves as ambassadors of freedom of expression, democracy and human rights want to take development in exactly the opposite direction. The aim is to give the government a greater role in defining what can be said in society and what speech the court calls the speaker. This must not be the case. Mr President! Ensuring freedom of expression even when dealing with sensitive matters is extremely important for the stability of society. It is too simple to think that if we silence the speeches with strong criticisms, we will have a better society. If these speeches are silenced, it may lead to an increasingly unstable society in which public confidence in the authorities is lost. Freedom of expression is intended to protect citizens from the will of changing decision-makers, and to ensure its purpose we should make greater efforts. Mr President! Among the most alarming examples of the current state of freedom of expression in Finland is the Attorney General’s invitation to remove old online writings proactively so that they do not become convictions. This reminds me of strong echoes of censorship and quite different countries than Finland is. Without the law on freedom of expression even yet being tightened up, citizens are threatened to remove their opinions at the risk of punishment. These threats would lead to the removal of those opinions which do not please those in power. This resembles historical commandments in which the ruler could ban criticism of his own authority. It must not be a development when discussing freedom of expression in a free society, as in Finland. Let us therefore, first and foremost, seek to extend the concept of freedom of expression rather than to go towards Finland on an endless path of censorship and silence. Because there's no turning back from that road. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u194	Mr President! I have more of this philosophical reflection. On the far side — I am sorry, I do not remember the name of the representative — this was raised as to why minorities are more protected on this issue of freedom of expression. That is why it is possible to say more to the native population than to minorities. If I am not going to somehow refer to the human rights content of the UN or of Europe, because I feel that we may have disagreements there, then maybe I was trying to think about this when I was told to think about it, then we are like... After all, the idea of a welfare state is that, in principle, equality in our society does not mean that everyone gets exactly the same, but that something is being done to take account of people's needs. For example, if you look at our welfare state structure: After all, our education does not all take the same necessary courses, and if anyone needs more help, they will be given. Our taxation is progressive, which means that those who are able to pay more will pay for it. Services go as necessary, benefits go. What I am trying to say here is the idea that the protection of minorities is greater. It's all based on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u195	Let us give a response, Mr Peltokangas, but let us not go further into the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u196	Mr President! I did not say anything about minority groups, so Mr Forsgrén could, of course — well, yes. I asked you to think. I stated: ‘Lause,who is a national of native Finns,is the subject of an examination of the case,leads to a judgment when the 12 national In this Chamber, Mr Forsgrén, laws are drawn up for all Finns on an equal footing. All on an equal footing. In this Chamber, we do not specify who is less and who is more. If you have had such an idea, I suggest you correct it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u197	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u198	Mr President! The initiative proposes that Chapter 11, Section 10 of the Criminal Code: to be amended so that only threats against the group referred to in the law and incitement to such a crime are punishable. In addition, the initiative proposes to amend the law so that in future the liability for punishment will no longer apply to making information or opinions available to the public, dissemination to the public and public access to it. The threat of punishment would therefore only be linked to messages other than information and opinions in the future. I welcome the fact that the Finns of Finland have taken this initiative to amend Article 10 of Chapter 11 and we will be able to discuss this matter. Freedom of expression is an important task and right in a democratic state, which is our fundamental right. The law must also be one that takes time and also interpretation in a different period of time. We need to be able to reform our legislation if we find faults there. And this section of the Penal Code no longer meets today's challenges and needs. We have a lot of tasks for the police for which they are actually needed and also for the courts to do a lot of tasks to which their resources should be allocated. We can now raise suspicions and even criminal charges about things, about opinions expressed in another time, in another context. The current law is ambiguous and unclear. It may even make it more difficult to bring up mishaps if it is feared that it will be the case. In recent days, for example, there have been public flaws and wonders as to why the matter has not come to public awareness or even to the awareness of the decision-makers or why it has not been responded to. Have there been fears of stigmatisation, or what are the reasons why things have not been raised? We must not allow ourselves to have inaction laws that are inappropriately blocking our freedom of expression. You have to respect me, and you have to use good manners. Of course, there should be no incitement to population groups, but it is a good thing that this can be considered, and I hope that this issue will also be taken up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u199	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u200	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I have submitted a bill to Parliament on the amendment of Chapters 2 and 4 of the Employment Contracts Act, and this bill relates to family carers. At some point in our lives, each of us is a family nurse. At some point in one’s life, each one of our relatives or otherwise close needs special care and care, and it is very significant that this care is provided by someone close to him. This is not only humanly correct, it is also very beneficial to society. Let's be family carers. The need for family carers is constantly growing, and society also encourages this. For example, during the last parliamentary term, we had some of the leading projects aimed at enabling more and more people to work as a family carer — it would also bring savings to society. Efforts are being made to change the structure of services so that care for the elderly, the long-term sick and the disabled is increasingly targeted at the home environment. The trend in institutional care has recently been strongly declining. The purpose of this legislative initiative under discussion is to give the worker the right to free work for informal care and to be suspended for a limited period for the special care of the family member or other person close to him, and here I would like to highlight in particular the period of hospice. Under the current Employment Contracts Act, the employer must at present endeavour to organise the work so that the employee can stay for a fixed period to care for a family member or other person close to him. In this case, the employer and the employee agree on the duration of the leave and other arrangements. However, this provision is not being implemented effectively enough, as its existence is not known and demanding family and family care work is very often carried out alongside work. During the last parliamentary term, I put a written question to the Minister on this subject, and the Minister replied in this way that there is not enough knowledge of the law and that the workers do not know the possibility of asking for family-care leave. Thus, the current Employment Contracts Act only allows the absence of a person close to him rather than obliging the employer to actually grant the employee leave. Often in working life, when an employee has an aged father or an elderly mother whom he wants to remain in charge, he has to resign from his job in order to carry out this extremely important and human task. It is most appropriate to improve the status of carers and family members or temporary carers. Combining work and care is often a challenge, and many are forced to make significant work concessions due to care responsibilities, such as shortening working hours or refusing new jobs or commuting. In other words, the purpose of the bill is to enable the worker to take care of his/her loved ones and to increase the opportunities to participate in the implementation of human and valuable informal care. The work of carers is extremely important — that is something we will all agree on here. We must give it opportunities, and we must also give it incentives. There must be a genuine opportunity to reconcile work, family life and family care, and the change proposed by the legislative initiative has the aim of increasing humanity and, in particular, understanding the different life situations of citizens. It is very important that we Members of Parliament voted by the people understand the different life situations of our citizens. Apart from the fact that this bill is of great importance to the employee’s ability to remain in charge of his or her family, there is much more that we should do. In their alternative budget, the Finns suggest, among other things, that support for informal care would be tax-free income. Of course, there are also many other things: It should be discussed whether the support for informal care in general is sufficient or should be higher. The criteria for informal care should be equal throughout Finland. The holidays defined by law should also take place, and the care place to which the family carer then takes its loved one should be stimulating and encouraging and empowering. Too often in Finland, this short-term care seems to be a mere detention of the person being treated. We are also concerned about the adequacy of short-term care facilities, and it is good that the debate is also taking place in Parliament. In other words, care places should not be reduced; instead, they should be increased. In particular, it is important that supporting, valuing and enabling the work of family carers is also at the heart of future social welfare reform. When we talk about giving service promises that people will be able to access social and health care services, we should also give family carers a promise that they will be able to take part in the care of their loved ones, that their work will be valuable, that they will receive a reward, that they will receive compensation, and that society will greatly appreciate this human and good way of treating and caring for our loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u201	Mr President! Representative Juvonen has made an excellent bill that hits just one of the pains of working family carers. Even in this Chamber, we have been talking for years about combining work and informal care and about support for working carers, but unfortunately these measures have remained to be expected here. As far as I can see, family carers who work have been talking for years about this kind of temporary care leave for up to three days paid to be granted just like a child under the age of 12 when they have to leave work because of the child's sudden illness, and now this initiative by Mrs Juvosen is excellent at the point where it can be granted longer leave. At the moment, the situation is that it depends on how to reach an agreement with the employer, and it is always unpaid. In that sense, if you think about supporting informal care and if you add this kind of financial problem, that too should somehow be able to solve this kind of society. And when Mrs Juvonen talked about this hospice care, hospice leave is also an excellent initiative, but I would also like to add this hospice allowance to this point. Even if you get time off from work now, in a situation where you may have the worst place in your life to take care of the last moments of your loved one, I find it totally inappropriate and inhuman that you also get caught up in economics very often because you have to leave work and into an unpaid situation. In fact, neither the law on informal care nor the law on informal care recognizes such a situation, but we should be able to create a class of our own. Unfortunately, the EUR 700 — which is currently guaranteed by the law — is far from enough, given that there are mortgages and so on, in addition to perhaps living in the hardest time of your life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u202	Mr President! This initiative, taken by Mr Juvose, is humane and fair. I would have liked the left side of the Chamber to have been here to discuss the measures needed to improve the respect and livelihood of family carers. This initiative by Mr Juvonen is really very important, and I hope that the committee's work will then take account of this human aspect and that this will actually be promoted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u203	Mr President! Representative Juvose's bill is well founded. We have a significant number of family carers in Finland, and their work needs appreciation but also support. Many family carers work, and the combination of work and informal care can become pregnant and challenging. Taking into account the human aspect of the person being treated and also the care provider and the cost of society, it makes sense to try to help with ways to combine and streamline family carers' work and, if necessary, to get away from it. It would be necessary to have the right to do so. We have also raised the issue of supported care leave, i.e. that if you have this kind of sudden need for your close short-term care or, for example, the need for hospice care, then you could stay and care for your family and get support from society. We have proposed that such a model be piloted during this term of government. One thing that is also important to take into account and how to lighten the work of a carer is the household allowance. In other words, if more services were used to qualify for a household allowance, it would also facilitate the work of a family carer. That is why the Coalition Party has proposed an increase in the household allowance. After all, the current government is reducing the household allowance, and it is making the position of pensioners, carers and families with children worse.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u204	Mr President! We basic Finns really appreciate the important work of family carers. I would also have liked one of the members of the government party to be here to follow the wise legislative proposal and, precisely now, the warm, heartfelt care that the Prime Minister has given us in this Arja Juvosen proposal. It is quite clear that it is important to improve the position of family carers who temporarily care for their family or family members. In fact, we can do no more valuable service to a loved one than to care for him in his last days at home. That is why I warmly support Juvose's bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u205	Mr President! Thank you to all the Members of Parliament who have spoken well. It is just as this is the case that many of these important things, warm, human, where there is heart and which touch us all, and which have also been of immense importance to the Finns, are being discussed here late in the evening. Throughout the time in this Parliament, the Finns have raised the importance of being treated, the goal of good care, the situation of the elderly, the ability of family carers, and the need to support them in every way, because they are silent and silent, and we are their mouthpiece here. It's a good thing we're talking here. It would have been nice if there had really been people on the other side of the Chamber, parliamentarians, listening, because they usually want to remind you of these things, but at least we are talking about them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u208	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u209	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! As life is often a trade of chance, we do not know what tomorrow will bring, so also the fact that these two legislative initiatives are here today in a row, is in some way a coincidence. The hospice theme has been very important to me here in Parliament. When I became a Member of Parliament in 2011, I decided that I would do everything in my power to move this theme forward, due, among other things, to the fact that my background has been to work as a nurse in the care sector and I have seen the great flaws involved in hospice care and its implementation, but I must say that things have gone a long way, better, and it has been good that there is also open talk here. When I was talking about hospice and death for the first time here, I was asked if you were some kind of angel of death, and I was appalled that really, can we talk about these themes here? The conditions for good hospice care are diverse. The decision of the physician to initiate the hospice should be made in agreement with the patient. Hospice therapy should relieve the patient’s suffering and increase well-being. The patient should also have access to psychological, spiritual support, which should therefore be part of the capacity of the hospice services. Hospice should be added as part of social and health care education. Mr President! We have no law at the moment regarding hospice care. We have a constitution that states that no one should be treated in a way that violates human dignity and that public authorities must ensure that fundamental rights and human rights are implemented. In addition, there is a prohibition of discrimination in the Constitution. The Health Care Act obliges the municipality to carry out health care that is responsible for organising the municipality. The law on the status and rights of the patient provides for the right to good health and medical care, treatment and access to care. In other words, since we have no hospice law at all, I have had to write the hospice law, which, however, is not perfect in this form. There are a lot of things that ETENE, among others, has brought up and which I have also encountered myself in various debates, meetings, various networking events, and I have done my best to raise these themes. The bill under discussion is therefore intended to bring a completely new and comprehensive law to the Parliament on the organisation of hospice care. The bill would bring to the legal level the recommendations for hospice care drawn up by the National Advisory Board for Ethics in Health Care (ETENE). The Act on Hospice Care to be proposed would include the cornerstones of ethically good hospice care and the law would ensure good care for the dying patient and the right of the patient to choose his hospice. I have a great concern that the current legislation and the softer instruments, the recommendations, will not be able to provide good hospice treatment for everyone who needs it. There are variations in the organisation and competence of hospice care across Finland, and there are more people who need hospice care than hospice facilities. In addition, the deterioration of the financial resources of health care and general social inequalities may jeopardise fair and equitable access to care. At the moment, access to good hospice care can also depend heavily on where the patient lives in Finland, and therefore it is urgent to develop and harmonise hospice care in such a way that no additional suffering or inequality is created for people due to their place of residence, and that is precisely what is being sought by the adoption of a separate law on hospice care. Mr President! This bill is a continuum from the last period, when I have also submitted it, and I have just received a message from the Ministry — and I thank the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health for being vigilant — I received an e-mail that noticed this bill, and I was told that by next summer the ministry will be cleared up. There is a study group to consider these important themes and whether or how these hospice care issues should also be recorded in the law. My position is that hospice treatment should be subjective to every person, then anyone who needs it, and that is what this wish is for us to have a separate hospice care law in Finland. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u210	Mr President! Hospice means the care and support of the patient at the last stage of the illness before and immediately after death, and high quality hospice care takes into account both the person being treated and the family. In 2008, 17 per cent of Finns died — these are little old data — at home, 13 per cent in the old age home and about three-quarters in hospitals and wards of health centres. However, the majority of Finns would like to die at home, and more and more home care and home hospital services have also been developed, and it should also be possible to allow death at home during the hospice phase. The development of home appliances is in line with patients' wishes and is also cheaper for health care than institutional or hospital care. Death is not always possible at home, and hospice care must therefore also be available in hospitals, health centres and other institutions and forms of housing. There is also an increasing need for hospice care skills in 24-hour service housing. It is estimated that two thirds of patients with fatal disease require specialised palliative care and one third specialised hospice care. Hospice treatment cannot be performed in addition to other work. It requires knowledge, it requires resources, it requires sufficient knowledge and humaneness. I would like to thank Mr Juvo for this bill, which is important because I agree that soft means are not enough to get adequate quality hospice care in Finland. We do exist, don't we? The current treatment recommendation for the symptoms of a dying patient. So we have guidance. Hospice is also mentioned in many treatment paths. But only when we get it into the law will we get it the status for which it is justified. And by law it is also made equal, balanced across Finland and can also be followed by quality. Last season, when the committee dealt with my euthanasia initiative, the committee adopted a resolution on the need to clarify the situation of hospice care. I am pleased to hear that the task force is about to present a report on this hospice situation by next summer, and I hope that they will also take a position on the possible legal record. At the initiative of Mr Juvonen, so much more that this bill will not go through directly as it is, but it will do well to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u211	Mr President! Once again, Mr Juvos has an excellent bill. It is absolutely amazing that in a country such as Finland in 2019, such hospice matters have not been registered in the law. I think it's a little shameful, too. This debate on the need for a hospice law has indeed taken place in this context of the Euthanasia Act as a general rule. It may be that the understanding that I have is not very comprehensive, but I understand that the Euthanasia Act is often hoped for precisely because there is fear of pain and suffering at the end of the period, and that this legislation on hospice care — that you can have good hospice care all over Finland — is certainly something that would reduce your desire to have euthanasia law in force. Now the situation is that Finns are in a very unequal position across Finland. In other places — if you happen to get into this kind of hospice home — there is excellent skills and all the means available, even so that you can be put to sleep at the end if you have that type of situation, such as suffocation death or something like that, so that you can respond to such things. However, it must be said that this debate in recent years may have made progress in the field of hospice care, but it is still too unequal. That these means that we have in medicine for the good care of people — and what else is needed to do so, a multiprofessional team also to support that spiritual aspect — must be able to offer people in this country. I believe that everyone has the right to a good death as well as to good care. This is something that, for example, this excellent bill by Mr Juvonen is aimed at. Of course, it was nice to hear that in the Ministry this matter has been taken up and something is to be expected from there. That's a great thing. Then I would return to this home appliances treatment, which was already referred to. It is worth noting here that hospice care is not just done outside the home, and home hospice care has fortunately been increased in recent years to my mind in at least some parts of Finland. And here we come to the question that has just been raised as to whether hospice care can be done at home in such a way that a family member, such as a working relative, will leave work and finish it as a hospice nurse. Of course it's not enough. It's gonna take a lot more than that. But it is a real shame that there are no government parties here to listen to these extremely important initiatives and debates.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u212	Mr President! Mr Juvosen's initiative is excellent, thank you for that. Unfortunately, in our society, matters relating to death and talking about them are taboo. In this Chamber, too, there have been hardly any such debates. And the fact is, as has been said here, that hospice treatment is one of these things that has not been discussed, and it has not been sought to develop in a good way enough to give man a human opportunity to leave this society. In my previous job, I dealt with some 1,500 deaths on an annual basis, some through papers and some in assignments, and I met these grieving relatives and similars very much. It was not so much the hospice, then the deceased, unless there was now a suspicion of some treatment, neglect of treatment or the like, but there were cases in which a person who suffered an incurable illness was at home at the end of that period, could say, almost on his own, and he himself decided to end his day or suicide. In other words, it might have been possible to avoid these as well if the hospice had been appropriate, the pain relief would have been appropriate. Unfortunately, this was not the case, and then, by talking to relatives and perhaps reading farewell messages, we learned that this person who committed suicide could no longer endure, for example, the pain caused by cancer or something else, not to mention any psychological support during his illness. I have been here for a little over eight years now and I hope I have history on this issue, but I fear that there is no realism in many places, unfortunately, that is to say, people who are incurably ill are being thrown into their own homes and they themselves are making the decision they are making. Then we should have a proper conversation about euthanasia. Last season, as I recall, this was the case with the citizens' initiative. However, we have people who are terminally ill and who, of their own firm will, want their days to end. This would be a topic for discussion. It is a distressing subject, and it is tried to be avoided, but such a conversation must take place. It does not exclude hospice treatment, but it is one of the parallel options.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u213	Mr President! Thank you all for your very good contributions. I had the feeling in the last period that the euthanasia initiative that was discussed here in Parliament came from the very fact that people, citizens, had the fear that when they needed good care or relief, they would not get it. And people were afraid of what's going on with them. And just as you said, Mr Tolvanen, there is still a great deal to be done with pain relief. For me too, even though I have been a nurse for 24 years before being a Member of Parliament, it has come as a surprise when I hear what kind of pain there may be. Among other things, I have heard a completely new term for ‘pain disaster’, which is related to the late stages and pains of cancer. We have a lot of palliative care developed in Finland, we already have a lot of good doctors with these skills, but that's what this initiative is looking for. And these things too, such as the informal care we discussed in the previous one, sooner or later, will affect each of us. Somehow it always feels bad that if you only experience or experience and follow by your own loved one, we understand these very deep things of life. I would like to raise one more point. Mrs Laiho, you quite rightly said that a bill like this will not go through. This initiative has been extremely challenging. Last season, when I wanted to do this, I was told that this cannot be done because we have no law. So in order to make a bill, you have to write that law, and that's why I wrote this law. There are 11 paragraphs here, but certainly this is not perfect, so yes it is the ministry's job then to make the perfect law. This is just a little lunch in that bag for the ministry. We have much more to improve. Among other things, we do not have the Ovine Care Recommendation on hospice care for children, but last year, February 16, 2018, these adult Ovine Care Recommendations were supplemented with three small sections, which are also related to paediatric patients. We also visited this issue last season. Among other things, we heard the story of the little Eino boy. His father told me about the hospice treatment of the little Eino boy when he was seriously ill. He also spoke openly about it, as I recall, in the media, and he even visited us here. In other words, we are taking the word forward from people and citizens who have experienced and seen these things. Let's keep our fingers crossed and let's hope we can get this into the law. We maintain the theme and subject and see what happens, but it is great that there is a working group in the ministry, and it is great that the ministry also drives and explains and does things. Recommendations, purely informative guidance on these matters, but those people who are there in hospice care will no longer tell us what it was like, so that in that sense we will listen sooner when we have that situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u214	Mr President! Of course, I would not dare to delay this evening, but I had to take this speech by Mr Tolvanen, for which I do sign that this matter is not in order, but also that death is taboo in this society for one reason or another. It seems difficult to deal with in speech, but it is also difficult to pass on to the practical level. Even death, however, is a normal part of life, but I do not think it is normal for us to have means that are not used in that situation. At least my own experience, which, fortunately, so far is the experience of close friends, is that those who have been in the ward of the health centre have been completely under inadequate pain relief and then in the hospice home everything that has been done has been done. Yes, those stories have been heartbreaking when it has not been successful, and it seems strange, as I said in the previous speech, that we have not been able to get this into the way it should and should have been in Finnish society. Then I would like to return a little bit to this euthanasia debate — quite briefly, it is not going to be here all night. That too went a long way back then from this story of little Eino. Now, if I remember that story correctly, it was also a question that the pain relief there at the end had been completely inadequate. It may not have been treated with euthanasia but with good hospice. As this came out, perhaps what is feared is precisely the pain sufferer that can therefore be something that cannot be understood even in this moment. As far as Euthanasia is concerned, I would just say that when the debate was very much under way, I found the speeches frightening that, now that our grandmother has been demented for six years, with this euthanasia law, it would be possible to deal with the memory sick in this way. That is my concern at this point, especially if, for example, we have a situation in society where we have abused elderly people all over the country. In this moment I would not dare to bring this Euthanasia law here, but I would try to reduce suffering in some other way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u215	Mr President! During the last period, the euthanasia citizens' initiative was discussed, and it was precisely the fears that people have, the pain and suffering that cause the fear of death, and the demand for that euthanasia. Our pain treatment is yes — it has skills if it is used and made available to those people. In other words, we have the tools, but they are not being used at the moment, they are not being used. There is not enough training and indeed knowledge or courage to take adequate pain medication either in all respects. I myself have also seen many deaths through my former work, and I have seen many different kinds of deaths. I have seen the good, peaceful deaths, but I have also seen the nasty, painful deaths that should no longer exist. At that point, the addition of pain medication is very much already — it has certainly been a long time. That is something we should not be allowed to do, and that is what we need a law on hospice care. We need it so that we can be confident that when the time of death is there will be sufficient pain relief, but there will also be sufficient support, mental support, adequate physical treatment — that is more than pain treatment. It is a lot of consideration for other basic needs. It is also necessary to see the financial side that you can then take care of your loved ones in peace if you want to hospice yourself. We have a lot of work to do at home and hospice at home. We have home hospital activities, which is a good thing, can be taken away from that hospice skills, but unfortunately, its resources in many places are still not sufficient, and quite a few will be transferred to the hospital to die, even in the last 24 hours. It can also be too distressing at home, and that is why the psychological training and all the support is so important and the presence of the staff is also needed. Hospice treatment for children is also an important issue, as there may also come against the inadequate treatment of pain, perhaps not dared to give painkillers that are sufficiently effective. Then I would like to point out that, when we have these 24-hour units, where we want to be treated so to the end, it must not be a dead entry either, that only paper is treated until the end, but that it must mean quality care, especially at the end of the day when it comes to hospice. If you are a bed patient and no longer need such other care so much, then it is the hospice treatment that is needed and the holistic care of the person and the care of the family and also the honorable departure from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u216	Mr President! It's been a long night, so I'm gonna make a very short speech. I have listened with gratitude to these speeches, which have been very professional. In the past, Mr Rantanen and now Mr Laiho gave very good and expert speeches. This is a very broad subject, as we know, and Mrs Juvonen has been very busy and working on this issue. Now, in the follow-up procedure, I would like to see not only ministries but also the whole government settle down and, in a way, take this issue even more seriously. In a sense, a single representative or even a group will not be able to implement this project as a whole, to the extent that we require, with the resources we have. In this case, it would be very desirable for the government to catch this excellently drafted and very wide-ranging initiative by Mr Juvonen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u217	Mr President! I also wanted to talk about this, which, Mrs Laiho, you also raised, namely round-the-clock care homes and care units, which really have a promise of service that they will be taken care of until the end. But it saddens me to say that when these nursing homes are domestic units, then it means that there may not be care supplies in nursing homes, group homes, there are no care equipment, there are no such drugs, pain relief skills, know - how, a person who could treat because they are domestic units. And then it may be thought that there is no need for such aids in the home: there is no need for oxygen equipment, no need for suction devices, there is not necessarily a need for morphine or opioid medication, which, however, need to be done. So it is very important that at that point a person is cared for until the end in his own home, that is, in the group home, and then the pain relief comes through the home hospital or something else into the nursing unit, such as nighttime, which are often the critical moments in which help is needed. And it is precisely so that not only pain relief but a good basic treatment, including skin care, including posture therapy, oral care — it has a huge variety of small nuances. Small things can help improve the condition of a person and make it easier for him to feel better. Old-age people say that in situations where the need for care is particularly increased in the care unit, staff should be increased. In other words, it is in a hospice situation, for example, when you work alone, for example, when you have a night nurse, that you have to add a resource, more nurses, so that you can support that person in a hospice situation. Then I have to mention: Yesterday, the news came to a shocking conclusion that drugs have disappeared from the hospice home in Helsinki and that money has also been lost from patients. It's about what kind of society we live in. We must also be very careful in these situations, so that if there are opioid drugs in the departments or there are situations where it is discovered that drugs disappear, let alone patients’ money disappear, whether they are hospice or others, they report a crime and that the perpetrator or suspect is caught. In this situation, it appears that no criminal report has been made, and if it is from a working unit, this person who has done this will continue to do so in the next working unit. These things should be given very much attention in Finland — the theft of medicines and if jewelry or money is lost at all — because when we are in these situations and we deal with people’s money there, the wrong person in the wrong place may do great damage. So this was what I wanted to say last time, that it is outrageous if a dying patient's medication has to be stolen. It's a place for a good conversation in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u218	Mr President! I would like to say that Mrs Juvonen's bill is important and worthy of support. A number of good and touching speeches have just been made on this subject of hospice and euthanasia, for which I would like to thank. They were concrete in a very tangible way the fear of pain and death experienced by humans. Hospice care needs legislation, and I hope the initiative will move forward, but it is also about attitudes alongside this legislation, and I think that its attitude should be that medicines exist, they are on the market and used in such a way that no one has to suffer in vain. I think this is important, because if people were to have a basic confidence that things would be done equally across the country, it would certainly help to dispel fear of the old age that is sometimes encountered.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u219	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u220	Mr President! The objective of the legislative initiative I have presented is very simple: to ensure better working conditions for the people who work — judges, prosecutors, policemen, child protection workers, veterinary surgeons and so on — with responsibility for the administration and employer’s orders. In my view, it is entirely justified to demand that the authorities who work at the highest level should be able to do their work in peace without any threats. For the functioning of society and the rule of law, this is an extremely important issue. That is also the case with regard to the legal security of each of us. Targeting is not only about the criminal phenomenon against civil servants; it can also target private sector actors, such as journalists. When discussing the subject, I have noticed that a lot of people seem to be misunderstanding. It is not an attempt to deny criticism or not to give feedback on the activities of the authorities. Absolutely not. In other words, contrary to what Mr Halla-aho claimed, the criminalisation of targeting would not lead to a denial of criticism by the authorities. Targeting is an inappropriate and systematic influence aimed at undermining the ability or willingness of the authorities to carry out their duties or tasks in the future. Targeting can, for example, take the form of a different form of harassment, intimidation, presentation and dissemination of false claims. A single official is only an instrument for scoring. Although the activities themselves are personalised with him, the legitimate interest to be protected is, however, the proper exercise of official and official functions. Which, by acting independently or by initiating or taking part in an action, gives rise to a situation which is intended to harm the activities of the authority, shall be sentenced to a fine or imprisonment of the authorities for a maximum period of six months, unless the act is subject to an equally severe or more severe penalty elsewhere in the law. It would also be the responsibility of those who, conscious of the purpose of the measures mentioned in the initiative, provide a platform for the use of the means. So many already criminalised acts, such as illegal threats, defamation or the dissemination of information that violates private life, may occur in the context of the goal. The purpose of this bill is also to make the offences referred to above subject to official prosecution where, for reasons of employment, the offence is committed by or close to a civil servant. It is good to remember that even if the target is targeted only at a single official, its consequences will have a direct or indirect impact on the whole organisation. At the moment, when it comes to the offence of the plaintiffs, the progress of the case depends on whether or not the person who is the victim is seeking punishment. For many, the threshold may be very high to go alone to drive ahead, and they may end up content with their fate and think that this is just a job bonus. In a rule of law such as Finland, we cannot accept this, and that is why I believe that it is absolutely essential to bring about the conversion of these matters into criminal offences under official charge, in order to safeguard the conditions under which the authorities operate, the general interest and the legal protection of citizens. It is also a question of health and safety at work. As an employer, the government has a responsibility to its employees. Mr President! In the summer, the above-mentioned changes have been called for by a large number of judicial and security authorities. They are precisely those in whose own work they have encountered these problems, and they have said that our legislation has not kept up with time and Chapter 16 of the Criminal Code no longer provides adequate protection for public authorities in a changed environment. We should listen to them. For example, according to a study by the Union of Judges, two thirds of the judges have been subjected to inappropriate influence in their work. We cannot ignore the situation. Think about how you would feel if your e-mail or social media were filled with messages that, for example, want something to happen to you, you would get sick. [For the group of Finns: There is experience,everyday!] I very much hope that we, as decision-makers, will take these concerns seriously and seriously. Painting is a phenomenon that seems to have come to stay, and if we do nothing about it it will only get worse and more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u221	Mr President! In recent years, attempts have been made to criminalise hate speech and paint without fear of the consequences. The representatives of the Coalition Party have wanted to play a role in the criminalisation of hate speech and target, which seems very confusing from the point of view of the citizens. Last season, with the help of the hate speech group, the Coalition Party vigorously promoted the suppression of the opinions it considered undesirable. In recent times, even from that direction, there has become wonderful of what the actions that they themselves have taken can lead to at worst when parliamentarians are being dragged into interrogations at an ever - increasing pace. This bill continues the same trend that cannot be supported. For many Finns, the question arises as to what exactly is being pursued by the legislation relating to paint. If the main methods of targeting are already being punished under criminal law, why do we want to go ahead and impose stricter restrictions on the appearance of citizens? Such restrictions are dangerously effective in suppressing even the appropriate critical opinions of the citizen. A cautious citizen in an ever-increasing culture of freedom of speech does not dare to express his opinion on the use of power. Fear is compounded by the uncertainty that what if this criticism of a minister, for example, is to be interpreted as illegal in ten years' time? This is a very legitimate fear when developments aimed at restricting freedom of expression have been followed in recent times. The reform of the legislation should always look at the possibilities of reforming the law, but also at the risks it poses. As far as laws restricting freedom of expression are concerned, particular caution should be sought, as restrictions on freedom of expression always deal with the most robust principles of fundamental rights. With regard to the criminalisation of paint, I see serious threats that, on the pretext of security for the authorities, we will be able to put a stop to the harsh criticisms that can be caused by the reprehensible actions of the authorities or those holding power. Such steps towards threats are not to be taken in Finland. Let us not give the prosecutors and the government of the future an imprecise power that can be used against our own citizens. In addition to listening here, Mr Keto-Huovinen, to your speech, I cannot help but wonder how vaguely it has gone to define this law. If you really read this, what do you propose about the goal of the authorities, then, Mr President, I will read your presentation here: “Everymany of these activities or of their own initiative or participation in activities in which the authorities are or are close to this, for the reasons of the Authority’s work ”? —‘disturbing, threatening,expressing, disseminating or other similar means’——stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,stacks,s,stacks,s,stacks,s,stacks,stacks,s,stacks,stacks,stacks,s,stacks,s,stacks,stacks,s,s,s,sorstacks,sors,sorsorsors,sorsorsorsorsorsorsorsorsorsorsorsorsorsors of —‘who is liable to harm or to make a decision on the action of the Authority It doesn't even say what you're asking for. I mean, is it harassment to use physical violence? Or is it based on words, or is it written? What is what we do here? This section, which you are presenting here, is extremely flawed. What's missing is what needs to be done. The word you're supposed to have here would be a goal. But then we should define that goaling, and I understand that it would be an impossible task. We should determine exactly what that means. On top of that, you were talking about the fact that when you only knew what it was like when you e-mailed such messages. As a basic Finn, I can tell you that we, listen, are knocked down by emails, social media inboxes, we may be yelled at from across the street in any terms. I was going to Kallio when I had my own workhouse, Cafe Mascot, and when I came in there, that hipster boy screams, I don't say the term, but "vnatsi". And this is something you get to face all the time wherever you go. But the exercise of power includes, listen, such a quality that is forced to tolerate criticism, criticism, and only for necessary reasons can freedom of speech be restricted. And now these messages, as far as they come, are not the reason. Everything that can be seen as belonging to the goal, persecution, illegal threats, all these things, they already exist in the law. We do not need any restrictions on freedom of expression at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u222	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Pihla Keto-Hovinen, for this important bill. In other words, it is proposed that separate criteria be laid down for the targeting of public authorities and that certain means of targeting be removed from the offences of the plaintiff. And, as this explanatory statement of the bill points out, it is necessary to treat goalmaking as a different phenomenon from hate speech, they are different things. Targeting may be a matter of negative publicity or a threat to public authorities, but it may also be a matter of non-public interest. It is not a question of individual social media contributions or of hard-to-word customer feedback, but of a broader, systematic action aimed at making it difficult to carry out work tasks. That is precisely what this is all about: systematic action aimed at making it more difficult to carry out work. They're trying to stop this. We have many employees in charge: policemen, doctors, judges, social workers, carers, official veterinarians, journalists, as Mrs Keto-Huovinen also listed. Yes, we must make it possible for them to do their work in peace. It is their job, and they cannot leave their job thinking that it will end, for example, the flood of messages that a person is targeting them. It also causes fear in the workers and can affect the decision-making that they have to do in their duties, in their responsibilities. It is a matter of big decisions, for example, what a social worker does in his or her work, situations in which children are taken into care, and I can tell you that these threats will come to them. It's hard work anyway, so it's no longer necessary to target a type of persecution. A very good bill, and it is good that it also causes debate here. I hope we can get it moving.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u223	Mr President! Mr Keto-Hovinen has already presented this initiative, and I am not going to repeat it. I've signed this myself. I'm more of a concretist of these things now. Firstly, if this paint law comes into force, it does not mean that the authorities should not be criticised, it does not mean that the authorities cannot be given feedback, it does not mean that the authorities cannot be criticised or criticised. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Complaints and reports of offences about the authorities should also be made as much as they are today, as much as the soul can tolerate. So you can disagree. There's no point getting this mixed up with any hate speech right now. This is a whole different question — if you want to understand this correctly. It is true that some of these things have already been criminalised, for example, as an illegal threat, defamation and so on. They're all crimes against the plaintiffs. And if someone in the public office is targeted at such persons, it is probably reasonable for the employer to then deal with these matters. It's the smaller thing. But I do not know then, opponents of this law, whether you think that such concrete cases are acceptable: There is an investigator working in the police, who happens to be the head of the investigation of organised crime, who is investigating a specific case, we are talking about a gang of vests. Do you really think it's right for this cop's kid to get a funeral candle in the mail? A child. Is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u233	Mr President! Painting — let’s first taste that word properly. The word that cannot be found in the dictionary of any other country with such a quick search is not so sudden in the legislation. Now, the word monster that can be interpreted to an extent is being pushed into Finnish legislation to protect the authorities, but from what? I also believe that the criticisms and opinions of the public about the normal activities of the public authorities are also valid. The aim of the law seems to be to further tighten up our freedom of expression and to protect the decisions of the authorities by means of legislation so that no one could publicly question these decisions without being sued for a target crime. We do not live in North Korea or the former GDR, although it is beginning to feel bad. There is no point in saying that the existing law does not sufficiently protect the authorities. The Criminal Code already provides for criminal offences against officials, which includes the dissemination of information that violates private life, persecution — of which Mr Toivanen gave unfortunate examples...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u236	Mr President! In the Soviet Union there was the so-called criminal code ASA, the law that protected the regime from anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda. It was introduced after the revolution in 1917. The characterisation of the crime was updated in the 1920s and, finally, two articles were added to the updated RSFSR legislation in the 1950s, which were commonly used against dissidents. This was then known as Article 58, which was applied with sorrow throughout the Stalinist era. In 1962, the article in question was replaced by Article 70, which clarified the definition of crime. Article 70(2) prohibits the dissemination of propaganda and false information aimed at criticising the Soviet political and social system. Does that ring a bell? The purpose of freedom of expression is to protect citizens from the administration, but this bill aims to prevent citizens, at the risk of a criminal conviction, from reproaching the regime. I understand the good intentions of the author of the initiative, but the main difference with Article 70 of the Soviet Union is that, according to the draft law, criticism is called paint, which is a proper neo-stalinist term. Ladies and gentlemen, please be careful that Finland does not develop in a totalitarian direction, at the same time believing that humanity is an obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u237	Mr President! We are discussing a legislative initiative here, which uses the word 'painting' as the term. Regarding the concept of paint: Targeting means systematic action aimed at inappropriately affecting the activities of the authority. The goal is to influence the function of the object by, for example, violating honor, causing fear of its own safety, disrupting domestic peace, disseminating false information or threatening it. For example, the aim may be for legal practitioners, journalists or researchers to give up dealing with certain types of cases as a result of harassment. After reading this text, I said that this is a good text until I noticed that the bill only talks about authorities. This isn't about the people who work for you. Have you ever thought that the authority could target the staff? This is perhaps more common in the small municipalities than the fact that the officials are targeting officials. Mr President! Today, the law of incitement to the masses... - I'm sorry, I'm gonna have to take a little back now. I've left the paper on my desk, apparently. - Can you get it from there, Sebastian? I've brought the wrong paper. — — — — It hurts what you're doing. Mr President! It worries me how this goal is to be defined and interpreted. Will the bill also protect officials who are inappropriately active or who are publicly politicising in their working hours from the critical feedback they deserve? We politicians, who have been painted by the mainstream media, can only dream of such protection. Does this bill mean, for example, that a police officer who publishes strange political updates on social media during his working hours should not be criticised? Would a police officer like this have been made a parody figure of paint? I fear that this paint law initiative is part of the long-standing increase in authority at the expense of democracy. For decades, the official machinery has also grown at municipal level. At municipal level, the number of elected officials has decreased as the number of officials has increased. A smaller number of elected representatives are promoting the interests of the administrative sub-sectors, i.e. the citizens, and overseeing the increased civil service. There has also been an increase in the powers of the EU, because in Parliament there has been a significant transfer of legislative power to unelected bureaucrats in Brussels. I fear that we are slowly turning democracy into a class society in which civil servants are becoming a privileged class of heavily taxed citizens. To conclude, I personally feel that I have been the target of targeting the officials. I'll finish my speech here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u238	Mr President! In my view, the legislative initiative under discussion to regulate the separate criminalisation of paint is problematic in many ways. First of all, it must be borne in mind that the main methods of scoring are already punishable by the provisions of the criminal code in force. The Criminal Code provides for criminal offences against officials, the dissemination and persecution of information that violates private life, defamation, public call for crime, illegal threats, data protection crime, vandalism and violation of media peace. In other words, I do not believe that there is a need to legislate on the question of the individual criminalisation of the goal. However, Mr President, I consider the constitutional aspects to be a more important problem than this duplication of legislation. As I said in relation to one of the legislative initiatives already before the second reading, the principle of criminal law laid down in Article 8 of the Constitution includes a specific requirement of precision which has been applied in practice by the Constitutional Committee. It states that the constituent elements of each offence must be expressed by law with sufficient precision, so that the wording of the provision makes it foreseeable whether an act or omission is punishable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u241	Mr President! When I listened to Mr Tolvanen's speech, I was confused that we are talking here about the very same thing that this bill is about. In other words, it is not a question of banning or restricting the activities of organised crime. This is a question of limiting the criticism of the authorities in social media and information networks, and in the second place I would like to ask the question whether this organised crime is actually frightened by the threat of a penalty for such a target crime and will stop threatening it against the threat of a penalty — I seriously doubt it. I think there are worrying aspects of the bill, and I am a little disappointed that, as a rule, the coalition that has traditionally flagged individual freedoms has gone behind this. President Orpo is not here at the moment, but if he were, I would ask him whether this is in line with the Party's line or the private thinking of individual MPs. As has been said several times in the Chamber, the main methods of committing these crimes are already illegal: persecution, defamation, violation of privacy, illegal threats, harassment of domestic peace and so on. So what is not illegal at the moment, which should be illegal in the opinion of the authors of the initiative? You can't get through this by reading the passage. The text is, if possible, much less clear than the arousal previously criticised against the people. I really do not know what needs to be done in concrete terms to commit this crime. Take a concrete example: I think the Internet police are making a stupid comment on Twitter. Am I, then, a criminal if I reiterate this comment and say that what a foolish thing to say from the police officer in question? Is this a crime? Why should this be a crime under public prosecution instead of the crime of the plaintiff? Is it not up to the person himself to decide whether or not to target someone? Why would the threshold push things forward for those for whom it should be the smallest, the prosecution authorities? Who in this country is better at moving the criminal procedure forward than the prosecutor? Now they'd be protected. Who are you going to give priority to here: the prosecutors, the police, perhaps the social workers? Then it turns to reporters. How do you define a supplier? Are you now going to put journalists in a better position than politicians, prosecutors, for example, in a better position than politicians? What's this all about? Who can all paint? If there are hundreds of thousands of online readers in the afternoon magazine, the number of printed copies is tens of thousands, the number of readers is hundreds of thousands, there's a negative story, is it a goal? Or is it just a goal that a person who is not a representative of the official media distributes information online? There are a lot of questions left open about this bill, and what is frightening is that this is indeed coming from the opposition and that the government is also putting forward similar ideas. At least the government's ideas aren't this weird.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u242	Mr President! When discussing paint, it is often argued that attempts are being made to interfere with freedom of expression or to prevent criticism of the actions of the authorities. Freedom of speech in general is not about being able to violate the rights of other people, and, as I said earlier, criticism of the work of the authority is not about being scored. On the other hand, pressure, harassment, intimidation against an official or his family is not allowed. In order to channel criticism in our society, there are also legal channels of complaint. Painting is not such a channel, and society should not allow it. For Mr Tynkkynen, on these wordings: I understand that in Parliament, certainly in the committees and here in the debate, these wordings will be discussed during the debate and will probably be refined better. What is important now is that this issue is brought up and that these main objectives will be achieved here and the authorities will be able to carry out their work in peace. And why should these now be crimes under official charge? The reason for this is that many authorities in general refrain from doing things because they think that they let things go, that the situation is escalating, or that they can also become hindered in their own work. And of course there are always expense risks involved, that in the course of the trial you will have to pay expenses, even if you eventually win that case, and the authorities, including the prosecution, do not have such safeguards that they will be reimbursed on behalf of the employer. As far as Mr Immonen's point is concerned, that is not the case. It is true that, on a case-by-case basis, scoring may satisfy the opposition of an official or the violent opposition of an official. The challenge, however, is that, according to their wording, they require the use or threat of violence, as well as the connection to an individual post. Painting may include such threats of violence, but as a rule the threat is mental pressure, which does not in any way equate to violence intended in the character set. So the wording is only applicable to a fraction of these cases. Further: Persecution, as Mr Tolvanen has already said here, requires repetition. In contrast, it is very challenging to demonstrate this when the environment for implementation is the Internet and there are a large number of scorers involved in the whole, and it is independent actions by independent factors. In other words, this repetition cannot be demonstrated in this way. This use of force is not the method used by this symbol. In other words, persecution can only be used to control some of these goals. In other words, there are shortcomings in our criminal law in this particular area, which should lead to this target being punished.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u243	Mr President! One must wonder why the coalition wants to bring these paint crimes, when we already have this religious peace crime or blasphemy legislation in society at the moment, we have legislation on incitement against a group of people who have lived through their time, so to speak. I think we should get some more. You were talking about the fact that you don't care what this wording is, because it doesn't matter that much now, but it will come at the hearing, as long as this is done. If it had mattered to you, you would probably have read the government program in which this is recorded that these paint crimes will be brought. Here it seems that the Coalition Party was trying to signify that we are going to do this kind of paint law, when actually the red-green government would have brought these things afterwards and first made its in-depth explanation of these wordings. You are passing by with a bill on which you are already divided, what that means. Everything you said here went on tape. That is where you took these, for example, when those e-mails came as a flood, and then another representative from the same party said that this does not mean any such thing. From the same party, you yourself have drafted this bill and, if I have understood correctly, Mr Keto-Huovinen, you are still a lawyer. So if this is so unclear to a congressman, to a lawyer, to a person who has even made the same bill, then what will this mean to apply otherwise, more generally, and how does the citizen interpret it? Mr President! In the same way, Mr Tolvanen, when you said here that this had nothing to do with these e-mail cases, it was not supposed to have an effect on religious freedom and religious practice when the law on arousal was adopted. It had nothing to do with it, but now that we start to restrict freedom of expression unnecessarily and make this legislation inaccurate, then at some point it can begin to mean it. This is what we Finns are concerned about, that this arbitrariness of government cannot increase. Today, precisely because of these arousals, MEPs are being sent here in turn to a police investigation, as the hegemony of society has changed in this direction, and what would be a better type of crime than a target that could lead to people who have opinions taking the police to a preliminary investigation? In your legislative initiative, when you speak with the term ‘whomever disturbs’,it is more difficult to find at this stage any more imprecise term I mean, this could mean practically anything. And then later, it says "or other way" here. [Laughter] Mr President! Indeed, this goal-term already exists, and we, as legislators, cannot act in such a way that we take a term that already has meaning, and then we bring it into law and think that now this means something quite different, whatever. For example, when we open up Wikipedia — I can link this to you, there is an article on the goaling — Jussi Halla-aho in capital letters, and then it says: “As an example of the conversation around the goalmaking process, there is a case in Finland for the year 2017. Jussi Huhtela, Director of the Helsinki Police Police Management Centre, divided MP Antero Vartia's tweet into his "Chief Commissioner" account and defended Vartia's position in favour of immigration. Jussi Halla-aho wondered whether the police, in their official duties, could make political statements and feared that the politicisation of the police would undermine public confidence in the police. On Twitter Halla-aho was said to have scored the police.” So this is where we come back. In addition to that, your initiative mentions 'whose panel'. If, for example, I, as a Member of Parliament, am going to criticise the activities of an official, even if the work of the Ombudsman for Equality, which has informed the Prosecutor-General that he thinks that my election campaign is racist, an election campaign in which I seek justification as to whether I can represent certain people who agree with me, then of course I believe that I can criticise this person. Once again, I just have to ask, if I start this kind of tweet or update or video, whatever, and that makes someone even more angry than I am, am I now guilty because someone else is even more angry? In other words, this once again puts that self-censorship on the political players as well. It must be said that you may have a background here — and it must be said that you do not ‘can’ but that you do —in addition to good intentions and virtues,which are cool,that you knew that the government programme read this entry. You certainly have good will in this context, but as legislators, we are forced to make good legislation and not to bring in unfinished legislative initiatives just because now we have to split first, because otherwise this may lead to an increase in arbitrariness when these articles can be interpreted in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u244	Mr President! Everything that has been included in the Government Programme will by no means happen, and this legislative initiative by Keto-Huovinen is justified in the sense that this issue will be initiated. And I can make it clear that there will be no misunderstanding between Mr Tynkkyse and others, that, of course, by e-mail, including thousands of e-mails, this crime can be filled in, but I meant that it is small compared to what I have just said. For example, sending a funeral candle to the investigator’s child, bringing a wreath to the mailbox — we talk about different things. And the goal is not to be achieved with strong feedback, criticism, criticism, criticism, criticism, criticism of an authority. You can disagree and you can be strongly criticized. I would say, however, that when it was Mr Mäkelä who said that hardly organised crime would be frightened that he would be fined. No, but as I said in that can of speakers, this is where the tools must be intervened by the police before anything serious happens to commit organised crime. You can use coercive measures, you can stop it. That's what this is all about. As Mr Keto-Huovinen said, all the crimes involved in this target are by no means criminalised. There's a lot of red areas left, and that's what's important. Of course I'm a little surprised. I have been here a few seasons before, and the Finns of Peru have generally been supporters of a very strict criminal policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u247	Mr President! What has been said here is that we want to criminalise this target, for example, because so-called painting can prevent the authority from doing its own work. And all use of authority, including authority, involves this possibility of being able to criticize it. If we are talking about these online policemen and what they are doing, then really, these online police officers, whose salaries we pay with tax money, are invited to participate actively in the debate there and to be present. It's their job, you see, the work of the Internet police. And they have done it in a way that has tended to politicize the police, as it were. It is true that we Finns — who are really behind a strict criminal policy and a strict rule of law, a strict and fair state apparatus, and we want it to be neutral — are beginning to falter, because we do not want the police to become politicised. On the basis of our criticism of the activities of these online policemen — these are only a few, but nevertheless — if this legislation comes into force, then even though there are some, then if we criticize them, then it can become a judgment. Yes, in the case of these online police officers who express these political opinions from their official offices, such a massive wave of feedback that comes in the social media can indeed prevent their desire to do what they do in the way they do in it. But the use of power can be criticized, and sometimes it can be seen that a certain type of government activity simply does not make sense. We believe that the police should not do political action on their own official accounts, but that the police should be completely neutral.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u248	Mr President! This has now been discussed, and Mr Tolvanen said very serious things about the toilet in his speech. They must also be taken into account. In my opinion, he spoke in the depth of his former profession about these matters. And they are indeed things that need to be addressed. When the representative also mentioned, when I asked if, for example, such passings and candlesticks, wreaths and such things could not be addressed when you told that there was no law that forbids it, the penal provision that was added to the penal code came into force from the beginning of 2014 and I shall now read from Finlex: ‘The person responsible for the persecution under the new provision, who is repeatedly threatened, is watching, is making contact with or another form of persecution,that is to say,that it is causing the fear of being persecuted. “ Don't you think this is getting pretty close to at least these really bad things you mentioned? That, yes, as Mr Tynkkynen — and many other representatives before — has said, we have a strong line of legislation — and we must have a strong line of regulations — which are going to intervene in these situations, which we really regret to hear. And then as a comment to Mr Tolvanen: you said that we have been in favour of the laws which, for example, are in the hands of the police. That is true, we still are, and I wonder if you have any doubts about that. But in the light of the comments that have been made in the debate, I saw reason to report on this issue of persecution that I found. I think it meets the criteria.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u250	As a reminder to the representative: in the Constitution, my title is still the President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u251	Mr President! To that end, if there were now some areas of law that, for example, persecution now does not, according to the interpretation of the law, cover such crimes, why should separate legislation be laid down with regard to this target? Why not then correct that persecution clause in such a way as to affect these crimes in practice? Whether this has something to do with hate speech: of course, it is nice if Mr Tolvanen thinks that this is not related to hate speech, but when it is related to hate speech in all contexts except those of Mr Tolvanen, then I would consider it a safe interpretation that it is indeed related to hate speech. So it is a matter of the subject matter that is the subject of the goal. As far as the authorities are concerned, the authorities also have confidence, which can also be lost if action looks like political action. Individual policemen who act in public in the social media in a political sense are very substantially undermining confidence in the police force as an institution. And it would be in the police's own interest to discipline these individual actors so that they behave in a manner appropriate to the authority and their activities would be based on the law and would not, in their official time, do the work of disseminating their opinions on social media. The same applies to prosecutors, who have taken very political points of view in recent times.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u252	Mr President! I'm glad you guys watched that persecution clause. As I said about the floor and Mr Keto-Huovinen said, it contains the word'repeatedly'. And I took, for example, the fact that if a certain gang of vests and motorcycles revolve around the investigation director’s home even once, that repetition will not be fulfilled, but you can imagine how much it causes, for example, for the family to be afraid. Then there are other cases which have not been criminalised at the moment. In a public place, let's take one more shot, one of the gang members pictures the children of the investigator, the judge, the prosecutor, for example. What crime? Nothing, but you can imagine what it is supposed to do, affecting the functioning of its authority. Here are quite a lot of examples of this kind that do not satisfy the characteristics of any crime, and therefore I wonder this when I really have considered the Finns as such in the past that they want to correct the shortcomings of criminal policy and give the authorities the opportunity to act, talk about the police, prosecutors, judges and other authorities. We are talking about two different things. As I repeat again, the authorities can and must be criticised, criticised and filed complaints, reports of crimes. At some point you always bring up these particular individuals in the police and their criticisms — I am talking about other things. I do not know how to get this debate going, but this would be important, especially for those authorities that are dealing with certain forms of organised crime, to work under difficult conditions, at least for their families to be at peace. The authority itself, a civil servant, will certainly be able to cope with that situation, but when the family is dragged into it, it cannot fail to influence the activities of this official subconsciously, even though he will do it with all due respect until the end of his office.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u253	Mr President! Mr Keto-Huovinen, you have said here that you are familiar with the government programme, and you have said that you now want this to be initiated by the opposition and that this would now answer what the government could do. When it does not go here in Parliament in such a way that the opposition does its legislative work on behalf of the government. We do not even have an official machinery capable of supporting us in our work so closely that we can do so. It goes precisely in the way that the government prepares these legislative initiatives, making them precise, careful so that no problems of interpretation do not arise. It is not just my argument that this is just helping the government, let us finish. This is precisely because we are now driving past the bypass and we are getting those points that, hey, now we have taken this type of initiative which — well, today it is hegemony that those who are trying to limit freedom of speech and criticism, even harsh criticism, are getting political points, but that is not going to work for us. The legislation must be good. This same phenomenon with regard to the assembly was observed when the citizens, over 50,000 citizens, had brought this anti-mutilation citizens' initiative here in Parliament. What did the Coalition Party do? That was so rude. A couple of days after that, a couple of delegates from the coalition took a couple of legislative initiatives on mutilation — just what was in that citizens' initiative. You guys have this all the time, you're gonna drive right past it. I would really like for Parliament to be able to do the work well, that is to say the government to bring those proposals, and if there are citizens' initiatives, they will get the credit they deserve, but this is now a little bit like this, that points are drawn and the trail is unfortunately it looks like. And Mr Tolvanen, you spoke of what Mr Peltokangas said about the law there was the word “repeatedly”. When we talk about paint-terms, it also requires that it is not just one person who does or says one thing, that it is paint. It's the same element. So now, if we really want to intervene in this matter, then we will be paying attention to the point where the government is going to make this legislation. It is considered that it will not in any way restrict the freedom of expression of the citizens or cause that self-censorship. When you talked about it, Mr Tolvanen, that we are talking about two different things now, I do not quite know if you understand what our basic Finns are concerned about in this matter. After we have seen what has happened to us, for example, with this reasonably fresh part of the arousal. We see huge risks when the name of the chairman of our party is an example of what it means to score. So let us also take this perspective into account and make this law more precise. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-27-ps-71.u254	Mr President! I understand Mr Tolvanen's point of view and the things he was talking about, but this term of 'goaling' at least tells me about the issue of plywood. So by scoring, we talk about telling someone else something bad that may then swell up, and then several thousand people read the television or the news. In other words, false information about a person can be spread unjustly. And those things Mr Tolvanen was talking about are quite shocking, and of course they should not be allowed to do so, but I think that is the persecution that Mr Peltokangas raised. I personally feel that I have sometimes been targeted in that municipal policy, and that really does not feel comfortable. Of course, I would hope that no one would get hurt. When it comes to scoring officials, take the other side of the matter, too, if you add to this initiative. It also happens the other way around, an official can paint a representative equally. That initiative of yours is totally flawed. I hope that if, in your excitement, you start to drive and to continue and to promote it, then take this point of view into account as well. — — — — Thank you.
