ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 17/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 February 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u2	Mr President! I propose that the legislative proposals be adopted otherwise, but Article 4 of the first draft law. amend as follows: Article 2 is added: ‘A marriage may be made for the purpose of making an application,the spouse of which was 18 years old at the time of the marriage,to submit an application And paragraph 3:‘The husband is a child’s mother-in-law2in accordance with Article 2 of the Law on
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour. Understöder.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u4	Eva Biaudet, supported by Mikaela Nylander, has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u5	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 12/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 14 February 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u6	Mr President! I propose that the draft law be adopted otherwise in accordance with the committee's report, but Rule 47 In accordance with my objection, an amendment will be tabled, i.e. the equalisation criterion will be considered neutral, in line with the social welfare reform and no additional increase will be given to Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u7	Mr President! I support Mrs Mere's excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u8	Leena Meri, supported by Sami Savio, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u9	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 30/2018 vp. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u10	Madam President! A new turnaround in the processing of intelligence laws was surprising but not unique in itself. If there are any reasonable doubts as to the constitutionality of the reports, it is of course necessary to clarify the matter. The increasing powers of the authorities and the fundamental rights of the citizens must be balanced, and I hope that this process will bring this balance to bear in this law. However, I think it is necessary that the laws of inquiry should be dealt with in accordance with Parliament's will in these parliamentary days, in this Parliament's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u11	Madam President! Civil and intelligence legislation has been adopted in Parliament with a broad consensus. In fact, we are some 15 years behind the rest of the West and we have been rather dependent on information from other countries. If something that has already happened in Finland could have been prevented by these laws, we do not know that,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u14	Mr President! The proposal of the Council of Presidents is justified. It is good to be careful when it comes to the issue of laws that are binding on the fundamental rights of citizens. However, the realisation of the fundamental rights of citizens is a fundamental pillar of our society, without which Finland would not be at the forefront of as many international comparisons as it is. The mandate for assessing whether a draft law, with its precise wording of articles, is in accordance with the Constitutional Treaty or not is in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I therefore believe that the Council of Presidents' proposal is well founded.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u15	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! It is now a matter of returning the legislative reports on military and civilian intelligence to these relevant committees and the Constitutional Committee giving its opinion. I will not comment on what it would be good to say or not to make a statement in that opinion. I myself am involved in the work of the Constitutional Committee as an alternate and I will not interfere in that. But when both here in Parliament and in the public domain discussions have been held on the subject of monitoring the constitutionality of laws, I would like to say that the view in the public debate that this is a black-and-white matter and that it can be given 100% certainty that a law is in accordance with the Constitution, or that it is not, is too simple. When you say that, it does not seem to me that it is always a question of interpretation in Finland and in all the democratic countries of the world with regard to the Constitution. The public debate is a little bit like that when government proposals are sent to the Constitutional Committee and the Constitutional Committee finds legal problems in them, it is said that the government has not been able to take into account constitutional aspects and has, in this matter, gone beyond its incompetence and incomprehension to make a proposal that is incompatible with the Constitution. That is not the case. The government, all governments, also take constitutional aspects into account in the legal assessment, but it is always an interpretation of what constitutional experts and their consultation of the Constitutional Committee take into account. Contrary to what is often believed, the Constitution does not provide any direct, unambiguous answers to complex legal questions relating to intelligence laws or to current social and regional reform or other matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u20	Mr President! Over the last two parliamentary years, the intelligence laws have been dealt with thoroughly and carefully, during the last parliamentary term on this report and during this parliamentary term on these proposals, and this parliamentary group has also been working in this parliamentary term. Of course, this diligence must be maintained, because the proposal has considerable sensitivity to fundamental rights. I think that the President and the Council of Presidents have acted wisely in this regard, but I really hope that during this parliamentary term these laws will be put into effect, just as Parliament has stated in its decision on urgency. So I am in favour of the referral back to committee, but at the same time I am concerned about the workload, especially in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is still under pressure from the social welfare laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u21	Madam President! The proposal by the President and the President-in-Office that military and civilian intelligence laws should be referred back to committees and that the Constitutional Committee should deliver an opinion is correct and I support it. It is extremely important that legislation, which particularly affects the fundamental rights of citizens, should be dealt with with with with extreme care and, if there is any doubt that there are problems with the Constitution, that there is a lack of constitutionalism, the matter should be clarified carefully, just as the Council of Presidents is now proposing. Madam President! Respect for the fundamental rights of citizens is a central part of a free society, a central part of democracy. From that point of view, I find it incomprehensible that a member of the Government calls those who wish to ensure that the fundamental rights of citizens are respected and that the constitutionality of laws is carefully reviewed. So are all those of us who are now, apparently unanimously, returning matters to the committees? Madam President! The Taliban, referred to in this statement by a member of the Government, have sought to build the very opposite of a society, the opposite of what we are doing here, in the interests of the fundamental rights of citizens, which are the cores of free society and democracy. I find this kind of speech incomprehensible, but especially when a member of the Government uses such terms, I find it totally inappropriate and completely incomprehensible as to what kind of brutality the Taliban have done, what kind of human rights violations the Taliban have committed and what kind of society we defend when we defend the Constitution and the fundamental rights of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u22	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I note that today we are dealing with both paragraphs 5 and 6, and if we now have to stop, this will have to continue at 2:45 p.m. I hope you take this into account and don't leave this house. — Next, Mr Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u23	Madam President! This member of the Government is probably known for at least as colorful rhetoric as Mr Arhinmäki. — We respect this proposal from the Council of Presidents, and I must say, as Mr Päivi Räsänen has pointed out here, that there has been careful work done here. In 2013, official work has been started, since then this parliamentary working party has been established, and then here this Parliament has done careful work. I do not want the people to have the impression, because of this situation, that, in general, unholy work has been done here. That is not true; good, thorough work has been done. Similarly, I agree with Mrs Zyskowicz that constitutionalism is ultimately an interpretation and responsibility for the decision taken by the Constitutional Committee is, of course, solely the responsibility of the members of the Constitutional Committee, who are, of course, supported by their expertise. There are a few things that interfere with the Constitution and the Constitution in this debate. First of all, it seems that sometimes the fact that something is unconstitutional can become such a political ax before it has even been dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, even before the experts have even said anything publicly, and at least I think it is too easy to use it. On the other hand, it surprises me that when I was myself a member of the Constitutional Committee for two years, it was quite right that it was considered that the members of the Constitutional Committee should not make a strong public statement on the outstanding issues. That's a reasonable point of view. On the other hand, we have noticed that experts in this reasonable view do not seem to be binding in any way. I wonder why the expert used by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has a strong public opinion on, for example, what is the parliamentary timetable for social dialogue, which does not even have anything to do with his expertise. In such a case, the question arises as to whether there are political motives behind it rather than constitutional motives. Finally, Mr President, I would also like to point out that Professor Martin Schein, an expert on this issue, also sent an open letter in autumn 2017 to the opposition groups that intelligence legislation at all, this proposal, should be brought down. I think it is important to ask when, in public, it is actually a question of constitutional assessment and when it is a question of political motives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u24	Mr President! I am actually delighted that Mr Arhinmäki raised the views of the Minister of the Second Party, because many times, on the left side of the party, for example, basic Finns have been called Nazis without thinking at all about what the Nazis have done to people. For example, I have experienced it very insulting when I hear it, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u27	But it is now starting to get so far away from this issue itself that it is best for you to concentrate on this, because it is almost 1.30 p.m. and we must also prepare for the vote if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u28	Irade fru talman, Madam President! Our group believes that it has always been obvious and very important for the Constitution to be followed up and, of course, the efforts of the Constitutional Committee, but also other observations and views, must be taken seriously. My own opinion is that when I sit in the Committee on Defence, this has also been attempted, but if and now it seems that there is doubt that this may not be fully in line with the Constitution, then it is quite appropriate, as has been proposed here, to look at this issue once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u29	Madam President! Let's be brief. This debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is quite justified in these circumstances, but I would like to stress that I do not remember that there are so many laws here that have been done so thoroughly and carefully as this. This has been ground up for many years in parliamentary work, for example, and I am sorry that this fine legislation is now going to have a little shadow of some sort, that there is a rush or a hurry or something like this. That is not the point. This is an excellent piece of legislation that the interests of the Finnish state necessarily need, and we will quickly get it out of here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u30	I am sorry, I have had to limit your speech, but here was a situation that everyone knew was going to have to stop at 13:30.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-15-ps-160.u31	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 4/2018 vp. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
