ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! This proposal therefore proposes to extend the temporary use of the reimbursement scheme for years to come. This reform came into force in 2017, with the aim of introducing new medicines in a controlled manner and enabling the availability of new medicines to those in need. In Finland, there are more than one million or more people suffering from various pollen allergies, and in recent years, pollen allergies have also received oral tolerance treatment, but only around 7,000 of the million pollen sufferers have received this stimulant treatment. In fact, treatment should be much more common because it is the cause of the disease and not just the symptoms. In 2015, new types of birch allergy tolerance treatments were introduced, i.e. instead of traditional injections, birch allergens have also been tolerated with a solution that is dripped under the tongue. My own child has also been involved in this type of tolerance treatment, and I can tell you from experience that it has been very human, easy and also very productive. This stimulant treatment lasts for three years: six months every night this stimulant is placed under the tongue and again six months is gone, then another six months is to be tolerated and another six months to be tolerated in the third year. This would make the pollen problem much easier for many children and also for adults. As a father in this, I have also learned that many allergens — my child says something like that — are cross-allergenic, i.e. birch allergy is seen as an allergy, for example, in cats or horses, or whatever it is. I don't feel this as well as my own child does, but I've learned something from this. I also learned that many children are afraid of injections. Now we have a situation in Finland that these existing stimuli are ending. The results have been good, the side effects have been mild. In Finland, treatment has been possible with the special permission of Fimea, the Finnish Centre for Safety and Development in the Pharmaceutical Sector. The Allergologist, Professor Erkka Valovirta, also expressed concern that we now have this waiver coming to an end. For example, as one of the best experts in the field, he would have liked to have found at least a transitional period in Fimea, as the experience has been very good. The reason for this is that already ongoing treatments are being discontinued in Finland is that two authorised medicinal products with a solution for injection and a language-based tablet have now entered the store. However, the new language-based tablet is not yet covered by Kela's compensation, and what is more worrying about this is that the minimum age for this tablet is 18 years. In other words, only injections will be possible in the future to start tolerance treatment for younger people. All these children, who are now, for example, in the first or second phase of this three-year treatment and have achieved good results, are now running out of treatment. After all, this is absolutely absurd. Pistoses are also a major source of health care resources, since treatment is given as an initial injection at the beginning of the week — not normally in the municipality of residence but in the larger cities — and a person under the age of 15 must always have an escort, and treatments take place during working days. It makes no sense for us adults to take weekly days off work because of the fact that their children’s tolerance treatment will no longer be possible through this easy fluid taken at night. In my opinion, for those who have started the treatment, a solution should be found to complete the three-year treatment. I personally believe that, when problems have not arisen, new treatments could be started, but it is absolutely foolish that we should interrupt treatment when the first results have been achieved. Mr President! I hope that the Rinte Government and the ministers responsible will take this concern seriously, even in the Rights of the Child Week, because we have a lot of children who are afraid of being injected, and I have just told you what other problem this is causing in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u3	Mr President! I thought I'd talk about my own place at first, but when I found out we had kids in the audience, I thought I'd come down here and talk. It's so good to see the kids here in Parliament. Children are the future of our country, and some of you may sit in this Chamber later. Wherever life takes you, all roads are precious. Last week, we talked about building a child-friendly and family-friendly Finland here in the hall, and we wondered how we could make this best country in the world even more child-friendly and family-friendly. Over the past few weeks, there have been several representatives here in Parliament who have had such a pearly white ribbon on their breast. It's a lung cancer tape with a pretty touching background. You children can also observe whether you notice such or any other tape or sign on the breast of another representative. Maria, the designer of this lung cancer tape, says this way: “I was 43 years old when I received a diagnosis of leukemia. The diagnosis was delayed by several years because doctors did not believe that a young and non-smoker woman could have lung cancer as a cause of respiratory symptoms. Because of the late diagnosis, my cancer had already grown and spread, which means that there is no cure for me.” Lung cancer is one of the most deadly cancers in the world, and you can basically get it from any one of us. The Finnish Cancer Patients Association (Suomen Cancer Patients' Association) shares that Finland is lagging behind in the treatment results for lung cancer in other Nordic countries. According to the association, one of the reasons for this is the slow introduction of new medicines. Mr President! The central position is that decisions should always be made from the perspective of man and humanity. Whatever the medical condition requires, it is essential for the patient, the citizen, that he has access to the medicine he needs safely and quickly. Therefore, all measures to improve access to medicines are more than welcome. The availability of medicines is a wide-ranging issue. One positive step is this government proposal to continue the conditional substitution of medicines. In the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we note that, according to the government's proposal, conditional substitution has enabled the rapid and controlled introduction of new medicines. This was also noted in the committee's hearing, which pointed out that patient associations have positive experience of the benefits of conditional substitution for drug users. The committee considers the draft law to be appropriate and supports its adoption as unchanged. The committee also points out that the experience of the model is limited because it has only been in use for two years. The Committee considers it important that during the experiment the functioning of the conditional substitution model and its effects are carefully assessed from the point of view of the users of medicines, the pharmaceutical reimbursement system and the pharmaceutical operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u4	Mr President! This government proposal has been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and this proposal proposes that the regulation on the conditional substitution of medicinal products be extended until the end of 2025. Under the conditional substitution approach, the Board can accept substitution and wholesale price conditionally for a medicinal product authorised for sale if there is still limited information on the extent, health benefits or cost-effectiveness of its use. This bill will allow users of medicines to benefit from the continuation of the conditional substitution procedure as it will allow some new medicines to be included in the treatment options. The conditional substitution procedure has made it possible to introduce a few dozen new medicines more rapidly in Finland, which has been of great importance to patients who need them. We have a lot of different diseases that can be very expensive for medical treatment. We are talking about rare diseases, we are talking about cancer treatments and, in particular, new-time anticancer medicines. That is why it is very important that these new medicines, which will benefit from relief and have an impact on cancer treatments, for example, should also be placed on the market. In that sense, the draft law is of particular importance to these patients. It is a good thing that researchers continue their work and get new cancer medicines on the market and for patients. Prices are so excessive that it is good that the prices of medicines are the same for users and that discounts within the distribution chain are also prohibited. This performance will secure it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u5	Mr President! I think that the three contributions that have been made here from the honourable Members have well described what this is all about, and in fact I have nothing to add to it. It is good that this practice should continue. I actually asked for the floor after hearing Mr Heinonen's speech, which was well-meaning in itself, and I did not want to ask for an answer, but rather to speak here because the problem that Mr Heinonen mentioned is a direct result of the significant cuts in the reimbursement of medicines during the previous government and, of course, it is reflected in a very large number of individual cases. I opened the time series for the Statistical Yearbook of the Social Insurance Institution since 2000. Every year until 2016, drug reimbursements were improved, i.e. more medicines became covered by the reimbursement system, but the change took place between 2016 and 2017, when reimbursements were cut in Finland, and of course it has been reflected in many different ways in the lives of the users of medicines, including in the way Mr Heinonen described earlier.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u6	Mr President! The purpose of the reimbursement system is to ensure that patients receive the necessary medical treatment at a reasonable cost, and that is why it is really important that this system is taken care of. In order for the price regulation and the pharmaceutical reimbursement system as a whole to function as intended, these proposed changes are necessary. It is indeed the intention here that this regulation on conditional substitution, which is in place on a fixed-term basis, should be continued until 2025. On the basis of this regulation, 33 conditional substitution decisions have been taken, mainly on anticancer medicines, but there are others, such as neurotransmitters and immunomodulators. In other words, questions of real importance for many patients, although this proposed change does not in itself affect the status of patients, since up to now patients have not received compensation for products for which the wholesale price charged has been higher than the fixed wholesale price. This issue, which Mr Heinonen raised in his speech, is indeed important, and I also think that this should be dealt with, even if it is not directly related to this regulation. Then I too regret the fact that during the last period these reductions in the reimbursement of medicines were made. I think it is really necessary now for the government to bring forward proposals relating to the pharmaceutical reimbursement system at a rapid pace, and I am raising, for example, the number of antidiabetic medicines that affect a huge number of Finnish, often low-income pensioners, for whom the cost of treating diabetes increased significantly. At least I have not yet received an answer from government ministers as to whether this problem will be addressed. At least during the last parliamentary term, together with the opposition of that time, that is what we are calling for. I hope that you representatives of the government parties will now tighten up that these changes will also be brought about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u7	Mr President! I do not quite understand how it can be the fault of the previous government, when during the previous government, Mr Lindén, this treatment has worked. This treatment has worked, and children have had the opportunity to receive pollen tolerance treatment without injections. At least the public information received from Fimea does not give this type of reason to do so, but they tell us that in Finland treatment has been possible with the special permission of Fimea, the Finnish Centre for Safety and Development in the Pharmaceutical Sector, for this French medicine, Stroral. And if it is the fault of the previous government that during this government there will be no more access to this medicine, then, of course, the responsible government will certainly make a correction that it will also be possible under this government. In my opinion, it seems a little strange that during the time of the government you accused, this human treatment has been possible for children and now that it is banned under your government, it is supposed to be the fault of the Sipilä government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u8	Mr President! Congressman Lindén, you mentioned cutting medical expenses. I think that the road has now been completed. The reimbursement of medicines should not be cut, quite the contrary. The removal of responsibilities has hit those who are on low incomes, unemployed people, pensioners the hardest. The medicines are a significant expense to them. The alternative budget of the Finns Party has taken this into account. We believe that this has been unreasonable and that we cannot continue along this path, and we are proposing that this EUR 50 exclusivity be abolished. So we want to make it easier for people who have to choose between medicine or food, whether to get the medicine or go to the bread line to get bread or how to get enough money. In the same way, the reimbursement category of antidiabetic medicines will also be restored. These things have also become enormously feedback to us parliamentarians in that field when facing people, i.e. we have to listen to what people have to say, and we also do our best here in Parliament to facilitate people's daily lives. So everyone needs medication sometimes, and especially for low incomes, it can be very difficult to get and get a medicine. One illness can completely reverse a pensioner’s livelihood and survival within a month, let alone be hospitalized. Then we'll have huge problems. We want to make that everyday life easier, and I believe that very many of us feel the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u9	Mr President! Good speeches and good comments. Of course, I do not want to start blaming the previous government any different, but I have to say that we are about to run out of yarn as we nursed the last government's socks with holes in them. Fortunately, this development has now been taken into account. It may be said that, in the case of Kela, there is an ongoing review of what happened with regard to grade two diabetes, when we were reduced in reimbursement of medicines, what has happened. Well, it is not clear at the moment whether it had a dramatic effect on the direction we were taking on the injection side or whether it would have increased the treatment of type one diabetes, but now, according to my information, it has proved in these preliminary studies that the income support has been transferred, i.e. more is being sought through the social security of the municipalities, basic security, for the reason that the medical treatment for the second type of diabetes has increased it, so that it has actually cut how much money is enough. In my opinion, Mr Juvonen well described the fact that it is the right time to react so that we do not reduce people's bread by reducing the level of compensation for some illness so that people's daily lives are cut so that we already set people to the level that they have to choose bread or medication. It must then be said that the government would make very cold decisions of authority, and now it is time to change it, for we cannot make human daily life that way — as the government is in line. We'll have to take care of it. If it stings financially, however, humanity must be of paramount importance, that we be there for the people whose lives are directly affected. In that sense, I think this is a good change. The right thing has been said here, and at the latest now has been the right time, and in that sense the government has done the right thing. In that sense, we agree with Mrs Heinonen that the end result is right, and I agree with Mrs Heinonen's good and thorough view.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u10	Mr President! On the basis of Mr Myllykoski's speech, three points have been made: First of all, you said that we should think about people's livelihoods and emphasise them and raise them even if it hurts financially. However, I would like to remind you that all good things — social transfers, health services, education, early childhood education, all good things — are ultimately financed by employment and entrepreneurship. In other words, everything is ultimately financed through work and entrepreneurship. They are not financed by taxation. Taxation is only a means by which part of the fruits of work and entrepreneurship can and should be used for the common good, for example for social transfers and social services. Therefore, this kind of thinking that we give more money to good targets, even if it stings financially — which I understand means that even if it weakens employment or otherwise harms the economy — I find it ill-founded, because ultimately all these good things are funded by work and entrepreneurship. Another point: Representative Myllykoski criticized the decisions made by the previous government and said that the yarn would stop when we nursed the holes or holes that the previous government had made. Well, the previous government made it possible for some 140,000 people in this country to get out of unemployment to work. But regardless of this and without emphasising this separately, are you now in the process of correcting, in this parliamentary term, for example, next year's budget, the savings made during the previous government, for example, on celiac disease payments and medical allowances? As far as I understand, you're not here to fix it. So you criticise the savings decisions made by the previous government, and now that you have the power and responsibility to correct these things, you will not correct next year's budget. And this also in a situation where the government has announced that no camper will now say that there is no money, that is, in a situation where you consider that such financial constraints obviously do not exist. The third point, which relates to that first point: Surely it also has some negative effect on people's livelihood that your government's budget for next year will reduce employment by 5,000 people? Five thousand fewer people are at work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-22-ps-69.u11	Partly for the sole, part of the second reading will be presented in order of 6. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 8/2019 vp, the Protocol to the Convention, the explanation and the reservation and then the legislative proposals at second reading will be decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications.
