ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u2	Mr President! The Government's proposal for the second amending budget of the year is a balanced whole. It is important for the Finnish economy that the proposal reduces the need for the state to borrow EUR 136 million. This means that responsible financial management will continue. The revenue estimates will be increased by EUR 298 million. This has been influenced, among other things, by an increase in income tax, capital income tax and VAT revenue estimates. An increase of EUR 162 million is proposed. The focus of the additional budget is on business conditions, exports and the smooth running of transport by several transport projects across the country. At the same time, transport safety will be improved. Firstly, the allocation of EUR 40 million for basic infrastructure management will improve the condition of the main railway sections in particular. The total cost of the projects over the entire period of implementation is EUR 259 million. This reduces the growth of the repair debt. Secondly, we are mobilising transport development projects with a total mandate of EUR 349 million and an appropriation of EUR 71 million. Included are railway development projects in Eastern Finland, road projects in the West in the direction of Satakunta and the renovation of the Oulu Seaway. We will begin planning the development of the Helsinki-Tampere main line, for which an appropriation of EUR 11 million is proposed. Employment is also supported by the investment of 20 million in vocational training in the amending budget. There is already a shortage of skilled labour in many sectors. It is important to ensure the quality of vocational education and training and the focus on working life. This is where we start the future investments outlined in the Government Programme. Mr President! In addition to raising the employment rate, it is necessary for public finances to increase the productivity of public services. Social and health services are key to this in an ageing Finland. The additional budget will allow for the continuation of the stagnant reform of social and health services. This same money, some 211 million, was already in the previous government budget, but its use was frozen after the social welfare reform collapsed in March. According to the new proposal, the appropriation may be used to prepare the productivity measures for public services mentioned in the Government Programme and to coordinate information systems and prepare national icts as part of the anticipation of the social welfare reform. In order to reduce inequality, the government takes the first steps in raising the minimum pensions. EUR 5.5 million will be proposed to the Social Insurance Institution to prepare for the implementation of the increase in pensions. Mr President! The aim of this government is to strengthen economic, social and environmental sustainability in a balanced way. The Government's first amending budget will continue the policy of responsible and active economic policy. It is a pleasure to note that the need for government debt is reduced from the anticipated level, that the operating conditions of the business community are improved and that labour mobility is facilitated by the renovation of the railways and roads. Railway projects support ecological sustainability. We reduce skills shortages by investing in the future of vocational education and training. We create the conditions for improving the productivity of public services by continuing the social welfare reform. We will strengthen social sustainability by preparing for an increase in small pensions. Madam President! I hope that this supplementary budget will be dealt with quickly in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u3	I will then give Mr Marin the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u4	Mr President! In the second draft amending budget for 2019, the Government proposes an increase of more than EUR 111 million in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. In accordance with the Government Programme, the proposal focuses on investments that improve the condition of the basic transport system and remove bottlenecks, reduce emissions and strengthen road safety, which benefit the needs of both public transport development, regional accessibility and industry. The additional allocation for the administrative sector will be used for the maintenance and development of the transport network. An increase of EUR 40 million is proposed for the basic infrastructure maintenance item in order to reduce the repair debt. An additional allocation of EUR 71 million and a total mandate of EUR 349 million is proposed for the development of the network. This mandate will enable the State to commit itself to multi-annual project contracts. In addition, a €0.38 million change in timing is proposed for the central government grant item for rail transport projects in connection with the construction of the first phase of the Tampere tram. However, this change in timing does not alter the State’s share of the total cost of the project. Mr President! The Government proposes an increase of EUR 40 million in the basic bus maintenance budget for 2019, which will curb the growth of the repair debt. This appropriation is intended to cover eight projects with an estimated total cost over the entire period of implementation between 19 and 24 of around EUR 260 million. Tampere-Säinäjoki railway section improves the usability of the track by renewing safety equipment. At the same time, the sensitivity of train traffic in Western Finland is reduced. The Kokkola-Pietarsaari railway section improves road safety and traffic control by renewing and installing missing safety devices. On the shoreline between Helsinki and Turku, the railway is renovated, bridges and tunnels are repaired, drying is improved, Jorvas is renovated and the track is stable. The purpose of the Oulu railway yard is to improve the efficiency of the operation by renewing the old safety device, changing the tracks and restoring the worst parts of the railway yard. The route has been damaged by rocking between Helsinki and St.Petersburg and causes traffic disruptions, especially between Kouvola and Luumäki. In order to repair the damage, scrap plates are installed, the construction of the track is refurbished and the drying process is improved. Small repairs are made on the Saarijärvi-Haapajärvi track, for example rails and logs are replaced. The poor condition of the railway section has hindered the transport of the forest industry. The E18 Turku ring road is being improved between Kausela and Kirismäki. The road is part of the international TEN-T transport network. The work is a continuation of the improvement project that is already under way. A new roundwood terminal will be built on Akaa, which is part of the national roundwood loading network, which will improve the transport of roundwood. Mr President! The Government proposes an increase of EUR 71 million for transport development projects for 2019 and a total mandate of EUR 349 million. The Helsinki-Tampere main track is intended to start planning additional tracks between Jokela and Riihimäki and Riihimäki and Tampere, as well as planning by-passes between Riihimäki and Tampere. The railway between Kouvola and Hamina and Kotka is to be renovated by making soft, bridge and drum repairs and refurbishment of safety devices. At the same time, the railway yard in Kotolahti will be expanded. Ylivieska-Iisalmi and Siilinjärvi-Ruokosuo railway lines are electrified and safety devices are improved. In addition, Iisalme triangle is built. The railway yard in Joensuu will be improved by renewing traffic control and safety equipment. At the same time, the railway model and the railway technical structure will be renewed. In addition, platforms are raised and a bridge is built on the intermediate platform. On Highway 3, Hämeenkyrö is built a four-lane bypass, various level connections, light traffic arrangements, and game bridge and game fences. A bypass between Turku and Pori will be built on Highway 8. The project will build a pair of bypass lanes between Eurajoki and Luvia and south of Laitila. In addition, the bypass lanes on the north side of Mynämäki are supplemented by the middle rail, the interfaces are staggered and groundwater protection is made. The construction of the Oulu fairway will continue. Mr President! The Government proposes to launch transport projects with a total cost impact of more than EUR 600 million. Implementation scheduled for 2019–2024. The total employment impact of projects is around 7400 person-years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u5	Let's open the debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in the debate to stand up and press the V button. — Mr Koskinen, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u6	Mr President! The additional budget proposal has been made very quickly and is also exceptionally impressive. In three weeks, the government has put together a package like this: the necessary transport network investments have been helped, the difficult situation of vocational schools will be helped through this additional budget and the growth will be maintained as a whole through these well thought-out investments. I think it is important now for the whole of Parliament to recognise that there is now a need to make such an additional effort in order to achieve balanced growth, to promote better employment, by digging up projects such as this, which will be quickly mobilised and the positive effects will also be mobilised quickly. At the same time, direction will be given to further preparation for the 12-year planning of the fairway network, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u7	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the ministers who have presented us and presented us for this quick presentation of the second amending budget. To begin with, these transport projects, which have been highlighted here — EUR 40 million for basic infrastructure management and EUR 71 million for development projects in the network — are the right solutions, as has already been suggested by the parliamentary monitoring group set up in the last period. Then this additional investment of EUR 20 million in vocational education and training is also very much to be welcomed. Hopefully there will be funding for education in the future. However, I would like to criticise a few points. This amending budget seems to exaggerate administration and bureaucracy, including the expansion of the Kela administration by EUR 5.5 million in order to implement a manifestly complex pension promise. I also wonder at this stage about the use of the EUR 211 million allocated to the continuation of the social security reform. Reform
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u8	Madam President! We would like to express our appreciation for the fact that the government is now taking forward well-prepared transport and rail projects together. It's a good thing the main line continues to be designed. Plans for Helsinki-Riihimäki-Hämeenlinna-Tampere must be ready when the next financial period for the EU begins. We would be prepared to put the crash on the ground for rail projects, if at all. For example, Espoo's urban track would already be ready for construction, and funding would be found for this, for example, by pinching a little bit of the increase in the Kela administration or, ladies and gentlemen, in your own department. It is good that you are now also presenting additional teachers to vocational schools with budgetary resources. We support the permanent recruitment of teachers. And we hope that you, ladies and gentlemen, will also reflect on the fact that this vocational school teacher resource will be paid for a permanent period of not just a few years. But the biggest concern is that the promised employment measures are missing entirely from your proposal. The 75% employment rate will not be reached without concrete action. Minister Haraka should be sitting in the front seat.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u9	Mr President! Yes, this opposition journey of the coalition is a rare populist start. [Department :Aijaa! ] Instead, it should be said that the sleeves have been wrapped on the government side immediately. As soon as the ink of the Government Programme has dried up, a large investment package is already being brought here to provide jobs and livelihoods for the whole of Finland: important transport projects that can create vitality, business conditions, direct jobs and the faith of the future in the regions. And then this investment in vocational education and training. After all, it is a great thing to say that we now need to have additional inputs there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u10	Mr President! Mr Rantakangas has already raised some very good points of view here. — First of all, it is not an empty expansion of the Kela administration, but Kela has pointed out that the time spent in applying for basic income support has increased due to the previous government's social security cuts and other deteriorations and under-utilisation. So we have more and more people who need income support because their other social security is not enough, and therefore they are applying for income support from Kela, and Kela strives to guarantee and safeguard their fundamental rights. It's hard to find anything wrong with this. We need to ensure that no one in Finland is subjected to poverty because of administrative shortcomings and that sufficient time for processing can be ensured. That's all this is about, nothing else. As far as the implementation of the Government Programme is concerned, it is more than just the implementation of the pension promise, and of course, once the programme has been made, Kela's job is to ensure that it can be implemented. So, here again, it is not a pointless escalation of government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u11	Madam President! After the present government had been in power for one day, the network news headlines of the convention after the day “where the acts of government. ” And now, after three weeks, the assembly is criticising the fact that, where there are large, effective employment measures. When you look at the policy of the coalition during the last period, where education was cut off, there was also a clear cut in the group from the training which provided training on how to make a credible and coherent opposition policy. I do not see it as credible that after a day action is required and then all the proposals that have been made are criticised. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u12	Irade the Talman! We must thank the government for a good amending budget. In a short period of time, many problems have been identified and corrected. Special thanks to the ministers Lintilä and Marin. EUR 40 million for basic infrastructure management, improvements to several sections of the line. It is good to get these moving now. They have already been planned, but this government will also carry out these improvements. Western Uusimaa is particularly pleased that, for example, the beach track now has the necessary resources to be able to repair it. Many of these directly improve the competitiveness of our export industry. One target that is not yet here is the renovation of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track. I would like to ask Minister Marin: what is the timetable for bringing it forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u13	Madam President! I would like to thank the Government specifically for these transport and rail projects in this amending budget, and I regret to say that the previous government did not even get this planning money to develop the Helsinki-Tampere main line despite several requests, and in that sense I was particularly pleased that this planning money is now coming. All in all, ensuring the functioning of this Helsinki-Tampere main line is very important for the entire national network and for the business community, and I hope that the government is now taking this project forward with great determination, including this part of the planning process. But then I wonder how these costs of hiring vocational training are one-off investments. I mean, those needs are permanent in there, right?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u17	Madam President! As such, these transport projects are to be welcomed and, in addition to this amending budget, the basis has been laid in the previous government's good economic policy line, which is good, i.e. the framework is not broken and tax revenue can also be slightly increased. But the problem that the government has — or there are two: the first is that you have built up this great extra expenditure, which will then come in the next stages, the employment rate of 75% and the high level of economic growth. The VM's final forecast for last week indicates that the goal will run away: the goal will run away at 75% of the employment rate, and it will run away with the objective of balance. I hope that Minister Lintilä will stand up to the fact that these additional expenses will not be made if there is no permanent additional revenue, as Mr Rinne has said. The second problem is that the employment measures are not visible and do not belong. Representative Arhinmäki, we were expecting them from the government negotiations. Now this has been outsourced to the labour market organisations, and we have heard how there are quite different views on what is being done there. In other words, there are no employment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u19	Madam President! In reality, this government is making a major competition and employment package.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u22	Mr President! However, it is good that the opposition and the government are now on the same line as the starting point that in order to achieve that target of 75% employment rate, significant additional efforts are needed for employment. I believe that this opposition can be supported when such good measures and proposals are received and support the fact that these issues are being negotiated in the trio. But the government must not remain at the mercy of this trio, remember that. We need to be prepared and have our own programme and our own proposals in order to increase employment. Now, unfortunately, this still looks like we're adrift and the spike is open. Could Minister Lintilä tell us what caused this sudden change of direction in the city centre, when, last season, you kept an accurate record of how much this staff is wasting, how many ministers there are and how many secretaries and special assistants there are? Now that we have a record number of these and you are still raising party support, can you at least answer this question, where is this change of direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u23	Mr President! Additional budgets are characterised by the fact that they tend to address only very acute budgetary needs. In this respect, the first additional budget of Prime Minister Antti Rinte's Government is a very positive surprise and, as promised in its Government Programme, significant funds will be directed towards basic infrastructure management and the development of a network of routes, as well as training. After all, these are key issues in society, to which money should always be directed. The development resources of the fairway network are being channelled across the country and, of course, will also have an impact on employment. Overall, this additional budget is highly promising in economic terms, as the increase in tax revenues is estimated at around EUR 230 million and net borrowing is reduced by EUR 136 million. Economic development therefore seems to have remained good.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u24	Madam President! I think we all know that there is a need for more teachers in vocational schools, but this government policy in this respect raises a great deal of questions. You propose that more teachers be employed for three years on a temporary basis in vocational schools, and then you suggest that, after 22 years, these additional teachers will no longer continue their work. I have to admit, I don't understand this logic. In an earlier debate, I asked Minister Lintilä that, when these many temporary increases appear to be permanent expenditure, is it really intended that they should be temporary, and Minister Lintilä then said that yes, this is what is meant to be done. Well, in the media, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education have said otherwise. Now we have to ask Minister Lintilä again: is it really the intention that these additional teachers in vocational schools should be temporary and stop working before 23?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u25	Reply, three minutes, Minister Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u26	Mr President! Yes, one thing that clearly distinguishes this government from its predecessor, for example, is the understanding that investing in transport infrastructure, taking care of it, is extremely important for a country such as Finland in terms of competitiveness and employment, and that investing in education, especially vocational training, is the most important employment and equality policy that a country like Finland can do. Why are additional resources allocated to vocational training already in this amending budget? Since 2013 to 2018, EUR 400 million has been cut from vocational education and training. When it comes to education, it is known that a large part of the expenditure of the providers of education is linked to the staff schools of teachers, and savings and cuts have meant that teaching staff in Finnish vocational schools have had to be drastically reduced at the same time as the number of pupils has not decreased in the same proportion and, at the same time, we also have an increasing number of students on the professional side who need special support. This cycle of surgery ends now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u32	Prime Minister Rinne, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u33	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Orpo that we now want to prepare these employment measures in cooperation with the three sides, but also within the government, in a way which I hope will lead to them being considered, well thought out, when they come to the House for decision, insofar as they are matters for decision in Parliament. Then I would like to say that, as Minister Marin said, this package will have 7400 additional man-years of employment on the domestic market in a situation where construction seems to be falling slightly. This will lead to more employment being strengthened and of great importance. I was also pleased to note, of course, that the social partners were able to agree on the issue of additional days, and the content of the solution is about 9,000 permanent additional employees. That, quite quickly, this has now moved forward over these few weeks in moving things forward on those issues that are absolutely central to this government. As far as the salaries of assistants and the number of ministers are concerned, I would just like to say that this government is supposed to survive, including every minister, from now on this parliamentary term, and that is why there will be enough assistants, a sufficient number of state secretaries and ministers, so that this burden of work, which this involves through the presidency, can be met.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u34	Minister Lintilä, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u35	Mr President! A few answers already at this stage. First of all, Mr Savio spoke of this figure of 5.5 million Kela, an increase in the administration. It's not for administration. It's for ict. So the current Kela system will not yield to what is required of it in terms of raising these pensions, and this 1.5 million will be transferred to it. Then this is $211 million. This is because we are going to have to release it in a certain way, to make a change of sentence. In other words, if and when this government wants to use it for this reform, it will have to do so, could you say, with a technical change of sentence, and that is why we are doing this? It's not going anywhere from the inside. Mr Heinonen, investment is employment-intensive, as the Prime Minister's speech has pointed out, and we have a clear decline in growth in the economy. Yes, we must now have a budget for this growth, employment, productivity. All of these must now be sought by the means available to the government. And this was definitely the quickest way to verify the fastest impact on employment. Just as Mr Orpo said, yes, this employment rate of 75% is challenging — it is realistic, it is challenging — but it is a purely national matter for us to get there. If we do not get there, then the next government will be under considerably greater pressure to get there, because there is nothing else to pay for these budgetary costs except through higher employment and higher productivity, and that is certainly the key issue for us. Secondly, of course, we are talking about an additional budget, and I believe that in the autumn we will return to it in the form of an actual budget. Mr Zyskowicz, I remember the debate on these vocational schools, and I think I found that there are some there with a longer increase for five years, including this professional side. And this is precisely what we are experiencing at the moment, which is why I think it is very justified that it should be put on a very forward-looking footing now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u36	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u37	Mr President! If Mr Lintilä, the Minister of Finance, has been familiar with the financial review published by his own ministry a few weeks ago, it is clear from this that the rise in employment is not at present dependent on the number of job vacancies, let alone on the number of investment projects, but on the regret that we have difficulties in getting unemployed people to work. More services are needed, to which you will not invest more than 3% of the total increase in permanent expenditure. There is a need for structural reforms that make pay easier, enabling local reconciliation. This is not done by investment projects. A triangulation could be made, but unfortunately the main economist of the SAK himself described his proposals in such a way that they do not have a short-term impact on employment, can even have a negative impact on public finances. So you've chosen a very difficult path. That is something we would be happy to support. It is a good thing that today, apparently, teachers of vocational education and training will not be laid off until five years from now, but this did not show up and next. Lintilä will have to answer for the amount of approximately EUR 50 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u38	Mr President! This government now has a flying start: three weeks in power, and now investments of 600 million are being launched immediately, with a total investment of 600 million in both basic infrastructure management and development. If that makes sense not only in terms of competitiveness but also in terms of employment. These employment effects, for example, if the investments launched by the Joensuu railway yard are taken into account, are ten thousand, not to mention the competitiveness effects, and now the opposition here says not enough. Heinonen said that more projects should have been started, even though, for example, the main track waited four years — four years, and the assembly did not give it the planning money.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u43	Madam President! If your aim is to achieve that 75% employment rate with state-funded transport projects, then it will be very expensive, Mr Lindtman. We call for employment measures to help people who have been unemployed for a long time or who are unemployed for young people, as was done during Juha Sipilä's government when unemployment in this country was significantly reduced. The last time the Social Democrats were in the government, there were no more jobs, but they were significantly lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u46	Mr President! This has been an interesting discussion and consultation. This is where the government has done good with regard to basic bus maintenance and with regard to increasing the funding for this vocational education, although this debate does not make sense, until when the money will be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u49	Madam President! Last season we had key projects, now we have future investments — something old, something new. I think that this first amending budget for the new red mud government is very hopeful, and it responds to many of the needs and expectations that the Finnish society and Finns currently have. In particular, I think this strong investment in the fairways and especially the tracks, such as the rail package, is a regional policy solution. It aims to create jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country and to mobilise the whole country. Very fine, long-awaited projects, to mention a few: Joensuu railway yard, Iisalmi-Ylivieska railway project, development of the main track on both sides of Tampere towards the Wall River as well as towards Helsinki, Hämeenkyrö bypass. We all know the situation in vocational education and training. And, Mr President, I would also like to point out that I think it is valuable that we can now continue to prepare for the social work that has taken place in the provinces and in the medical districts. There is also such a text change. The work of hundreds of people who have used their skills does not go into the trash can,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u50	Madam Speaker! There has been talk here of flying off and of the government wrapping up sleeves and getting to work. But then it is good to remember that we are distributing taxpayers' money, we are not distributing our own money. It's part of the flying takeoff, though. It was heard that an increase of EUR 40 million was allocated to the level of funding for basic infrastructure management, and this is a good thing. In addition, we have also heard a list of transport projects in which the government invests. They must also be important and good projects. But there is one thing that surprises me. The unemployment rate in Ostrobothnia is the second lowest in Mainland Finland and the employment rate is the same. The lifeblood of a successful province is functional transport connections, but the roads of Ostrobothnia were forgotten again. Last season, the province of Ostrobothnia suffered many losses, and this government promised to change direction. The efficiency of transport and connections contributes to the cost-effectiveness and competitiveness of the business life of an export-winning region. — — — — Where the hell are they?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u51	Mr President! This amending budget has been made quickly. The government is leaving immediately to put the tracks and training in order. As a whole, the additional budget will also reduce government debt. In particular, I would like to thank you for the additional resources for hiring teachers in vocational education and training. I really need it. Mr President! Transport projects across the country are welcome and, in particular, rail projects are particularly commendable in terms of climate, transport, employment, competitiveness. For example, the design money for the Helsinki-Tampere main track and the electrification of the Ylivieska-Iisalmi track are important and necessary projects. I would ask Minister Marin: will there be planning appropriations for the entire section of the main track, including the section north of Tampere? We need comprehensive planning in order to improve the functioning of the main line as a whole and to have the opportunity to apply for EU TEN-T funds in the meantime.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u52	Mr President! However, I am very concerned about this progress on the Tampere-Helsinki railway project, and I would like to ask what this timetable is. Now we're gonna figure it out. When are we gonna get started? I myself travel from Hyvinkää every day and hear people’s puzzles about the fact that trains are often late or they do not come and there are problems and we stay there and wait, and of course it affects where people can and want to live. In particular, then, I would like to ask Minister Marin: when is it to be expected that we will see trains moving there and not just plans? This is very important. The second question is: where are the improvements on the Hanko-hyvinkää road? For years it has been expected that at least one bypass could be reached in Uusimaa, and there is still no money in sight. You said there was a lot of money here for the road. There is a huge amount of traffic in Uusimaa, and Hanko is also a port city. I wonder that there are no investments on the Hanko- Hyvinkää road, and I would ask: what are you thinking about these, and what is coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u53	Mr President! This criticism of the opposition now sounds quite familiar a few weeks ago. Firstly, it is criticised that far too much money is being spent now, far too much money, and then a number of speeches are being made on how, in fact, even more money should be spent, so it is a little unclear what this problem really is. On my own behalf, I must thank the government and the ministers for this very phenomenally fast-introduced amending budget, which clearly shows the change of direction that this government wants to be making. The road to education cuts, which have been going on for far too long, is now over, and now we are going to build a carbon-neutral Finland. For what this government is committed to doing is to halve transport emissions by 2030, and that is the route we are going to build. And at the same time, hundreds of teachers who have been laid off from vocational training are now being offered a job. The message is clear: Finland is changing direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u54	Madam President! As a representative of the northern province, you can humm satisfaction with the way transport projects have been taken into account in your region, as well as in the rest of Finland. This government seems to have restored to regional policy the credit it deserves. Improvements in basic routes and the implementation of transport projects will certainly promote the operating conditions of the business community fairly across Finland. In Northern Ostrobothnia, we are pleased that there is an improvement in the repair and safety equipment of the Oulu railway yard. In addition, it is proposed to increase the authority for the construction of the Oulu Maritime Passage. In this respect, I believe that thanks will also be given to the good government proposal from representatives of the opposition in the region. To Minister Marin, I would like to repeat the question raised by Mr Sarkkinen: is there planning money coming to the Ostrobothnian track?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u55	Madam President! As has already been said many times in this Chamber, this additional economic assessment will trigger a number of regionally important transport projects which will facilitate the growth of regions and the promotion of vitality. They also create work during the construction phase and thus help to achieve the employment objective. The government has been together for less than three weeks, and the EUR 600 million infra-funds mentioned here are now being mobilised, and the opposition is critical of the lack of employment measures. I'd like to say "how you're doing," but you're doing it. It is necessary for the government to immediately intervene in this situation of vocational training. While Mr Heinonen is always very skilful in speaking here, I would also remind you that during the last parliamentary term your minister made such drastic cuts in vocational education and training, taking away, among other things, the hours spent in local education from many children, that this situation simply needs to be tackled at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u56	Mr President! First of all, it would be worth following the debate and not repeating the mantra that has been drawn up in advance to say that ‘the co-operative populist’ or ‘that’s what you are doing’. Our proposals are self-financing. We are not proposing any net increases in expenditure. It seems to me to be the first feature of populism in the debate on the budget that more is being proposed in the framework without telling where it comes from. What we are wondering about in this proposal, which contains a lot of good small projects, which are being promoted in Northern Finland, including bigger ones, which are important for industry, is what surprised us, is that this is where the bottleneck links between the big cities were left waiting for it to be put on the ground. We would have had the assumption that, in particular, Espoo's urban track, which is ready to start, which is also a prerequisite for Tampere's flight path, would have started, while, at the same time, you commit EUR 600 million to projects, as described by the Minister for Transport, and when you present EUR 15 million to Kela and EUR 3 million to double the assistant resources. By making these more reasonable, we propose an allocation of EUR 6.5 million, starting in the autumn with the construction of an urban track and the rapid connections of large cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u57	Now I give the ministers the speeches, Prime Minister Rinne first and then Minister Marin. — Prime Minister Rinne, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u58	Mr President! First of all, small pensions. The first step is now to be taken in 2020. It is recorded in the minutes of the Government's negotiations on the amending budget, which provided Kela with this EUR 5.5 million to build up its technical capability for the first step from the beginning of 2020, EUR 50 for quite a few and slightly smaller sums for an even larger number, to mobilise. Therefore, a change in Kela's ict system is needed in order to achieve this. That's what the money's going for. We have also decided to remove the active model as quickly as possible. Change is in preparation. When asked about bus projects, the preparation of major infrastructure development projects and project companies will continue as outlined in the Government Programme. We want to prepare this matter in such a way that it can be brought to Parliament so that then we really have to decide what to do to take it forward. They come, Mr Mykkänen, those projects, you can be left alone. Then I will say that the Hanko- Hyvinkää track is also recorded in the same way, i.e. when it is designed so far, it is put on the move. The likely year of construction is 2020 at the turn of the year. It can be taken forward. Then, in the north, it has been decided to prepare the port projects of Ajos and increase the vitality of the Savonlinna area. Savonlinna was faced with considerable difficulties during the last parliamentary term as a result of the decisions taken at the time, and now we want to help Savonlinna again on her feet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u60	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and the regions for their extensive contacts with the fairway projects. They are everywhere in Finland, they are important. We need to invest considerably more in the development of our infrastructure in order to maintain and develop the competitiveness and vitality of the country as a whole. This is absolutely necessary. More than EUR 600 million will now be invested: EUR 260 million in basic infrastructure management — EUR 40 million for this year — and around EUR 350 million for development projects, EUR 71 million for this year. But we do recognise that there are many of these needs, and that is why, of course, the funding of these needs must also be considered very carefully. As far as these major rail transport projects are concerned, in the direction of the West, in the direction of the North and in the direction of the East, there is talk of billions of projects of a size, and that is why these projects are being prepared so that it is possible to set up project companies that would go ahead with them. As far as Espoo's urban track is concerned, the cost is approximately EUR 275 million. It would be ready to start, but it will also be considered as part of the Western rail line, the whole of this company, i.e. this will be carefully prepared and carefully evaluated. Just as much could be done between Pasila and Riihimäki, and this project could be launched. Its cost estimate is approximately EUR 273 million. At this stage, however, we were not so bold in the amending budget that we would have launched more than a billion transport projects. More than 600 million will start them up, but the urban track in Espoo and increasing Pasila-Riihimäki’s mediation capacity will still be waiting for the future. With regard to the electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track, the Government decision contains a protocol indicating that this will start in 2020. It is currently in the process of planning. It is estimated that it will be completed at the end of 2019-2020, and this would therefore be possible to start next year. This is what the government is committed to. This is estimated at EUR 62 million. So we carefully assess, identify regional needs. There are many projects that need to be put in motion, but unfortunately there is not quite enough money to ensure that all the potential needs and projects can still be mobilised during this term of government. I do not dare to believe that, but as much as possible of the projects that improve our vitality, both for the basic route management and for the development projects, we are trying to mobilise the whole country's competitiveness, vitality and employment in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u61	And apparently, the debate continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u62	Honorable Speaker! If we go into this big picture of the economy, economic growth will slow down. This is because our demand, both international and domestic, is gradually deteriorating. This is because household debt has grown too much, and there will no longer be the demand that has come before. From the previous recession, households pulled Finland out of the pit, but stayed there themselves. Now, if you look at this international situation, then the trade war may well last surprisingly long. When the United States starts to become weaker financial data, it is then reflected here in Finland. We need to make a plan to prepare ourselves for a possible future recession. We would have to get our own competitiveness up, cost competitiveness up, unit labour costs down and, above all, productivity up. As such, these fairway projects are quite good, but some new productivity investment
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u63	Madam President! I would also like, for my part, to thank the Rinte Government for this additional budget. This presentation, prepared in a few weeks, shows that Finland is changing direction. These additional resources are expected, particularly on the vocational training side, which are very important. I would also like to thank the Minister for Transport, Mr Marin, for these important rail and transport projects, which, for their part, will strengthen the vitality and bring these positive employment effects, without forgetting safety issues and sustainable development policies. From the perspective of Pirkanmaa, I would also like to thank you in particular for this design of the Helsinki-Tampere main track. Last season, we tried to get a budget even for design that we didn't get. In our province, the biggest bottleneck on the Hämeenkyrö bypass to Ostrobothnia was now receiving additional money, and it was very much to be expected and hoped for. So thank you for this fairer direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u64	Madam President! I am very grateful for this additional budget. It must be remembered that the need for net government borrowing will be reduced by EUR 136 million, despite the fact that we are able to increase the vitality of the regions, share well-being throughout Finland, for example, to mobilise wood. My question to Minister Marin and even Prime Minister Rinte would be as follows: there is some concern in Central Finland when planning did not yet reach the main track plus, but I think that this Helsinki-Tampere gap was started quite wisely. There is a clear record in the Government Programme that planning will begin with the extension of the main track, will it not? And another smaller issue: the Government will put into practice the commitments of the Broadband for All project. Did they talk about this in the context of the amending budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u65	Madam President! Many of the government's transport projects are in themselves worthwhile and many of them have long been in common plans. You can thank the government for taking them forward. However, the main weakness of the government package is that cities were forgotten. They were left waiting, just as the Minister said just now, to wait. There will be money to plan the development of the current Helsinki-Tampere main line, but it is still unclear how the big interurban rail projects will actually be implemented when the government did not capitalise the project companies. So why was not even EUR 3 billion in the sale of assets found to provide capital to the project companies? Can you now clarify whether, during this reign, there will be a rapid movement of large-scale urban connections?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u66	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the government for this rapid action and a good government programme anyway. It really feels like you can breathe more freely in this country. I would also like to thank the capital region for promising support and funding for railway projects in the actual budget. I'd like to ask the government: It may be understandable that, at this stage, so quickly, perhaps the gender perspective has not been very much evaluated in terms of employment and economic investment, but can the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance — now the Minister for Gender Equality have already left — promise that we will have some assessment of the way in which these investments are directed from the point of view of gender equality in the actual budget? If you remember, the previous government has made an excellent assessment of how economic policy has been targeted at the end of the day, and we have learned a good lesson from it that unless it is given special attention,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u67	Mr President! Mr Kalmarin and With regard to Vikman’s concerns regarding the implementation of these rail projects, what was reported here in the Government negotiations: ‘The preparation of the major network development project company will be carried out in a way that is consistent with the Government’s programme’. “In order to ensure Project applications andenhancedin the knowledge that some projects have made more rapid progress in terms of Finally,the ‘Militarymobility-EU guidelines’ funding opportunities for major infrastructure As I have said several times now, Mr Vikman, these big projects, the interurban projects are moving forward and they are being carried out peacefully in such a way that they have been carefully prepared so that they can then be carried out when the time comes. In other words, there is no need to worry that these projects will not start. They're moving.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u68	Madam President! We have talked about this EUR 600 million transport package in the long run, and that is certainly a good thing. I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber is opposed to the maintenance of the transport network. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u69	Madam President! It is good that the transport network is being set up and invested in, but I would now take this debate to the level of a normal person. In what way do you support the purchase of a car by an ordinary worker, a mother or a nurse? You tell me here that the car tax has been reduced, the car dealership has been frozen. You're raising the gas tax, but how do you ensure that we can buy low-emission cars? Finns drive old cars. This would be very important. As far as vocational training is concerned, I would like to ask whether the entrance exams will finally come back. While the SDP was on the board last season, you dropped the entrance exams. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u70	Responses Ministers Lintilä and Marin. - Lintila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u71	Madam President! A few comments. First of all, Mr Mykkänen: I agree exactly with you that we need to take measures to improve employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u74	Mr President! One more of these project companies. The real government has been sitting for three weeks. Of course, in this three weeks we have not yet completed the world, but we have made significant efforts, particularly in the field of transport infrastructure. As regards this north-facing rail connection, the faster rail connection Helsinki-Tampere, still Tampere-Jyväskylä-Seinäjoki, Pori-northern from that Seinäjoki, this whole will be looked at carefully. Work has already been started to bring these project companies together as quickly as possible and then we can move forward from there, but this too will take more time than a few weeks. We want to look carefully at this whole package, because it is a question of billions of euros and it makes more sense for everyone to carry out a thorough assessment, a thorough planning exercise. I myself will at least stick to this principle. As regards Mr Kopra's question on the national transport system plan: Although three weeks have passed, in fact, work has already been started here. We already had a day-to-day seminar in the Ministry of Transport and Communications on this subject. We've started this job now. There were regional representation, state administration, a wide range of stakeholders. In other words, this development of the national transport system has now been initiated, and when the time comes, of course the parliamentary working group will also be here to prepare it just as well as the civil service cooperation group, which also includes the representation of the regions, to prepare it. And that is precisely the idea that it would probably be possible to move forward in the middle of this parliamentary term in the framework of this national transport system plan. As Minister, I am also trying to maintain the balance that, until this work has been completed, not all these development funds, for example, for projects, should be fed into the balance between the fact that two years will probably go by this old system and then, in the middle of the period, more or less could be passed on to this longer 12-year planning of the transport system, which we have all been broadly behind. We need more long-term planning for our entire transport system, long-term planning for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u75	Mr President! If there is any consensus in this Chamber, it will certainly be this increase in employment rates to 75%, but I am somewhat concerned about that, when these measures are not included in the government programme but are placed at a tripartite table and the economicist of the SAK states that their presentations cannot calculate the clear-cut employment effects. I could ask the Prime Minister: do you yourselves believe that the tripartite table will now become the employment proposals because the credibility and economic policy of this whole government are based on the success of these employment measures? And although these infrastructure projects are good in themselves, which are now being implemented, we all know that this will not solve those issues. New employment figures have been obtained there today, and the old bases are good enough to show a slight increase, but unemployment among people under 25 has already started to rise in Pirkanmaa, for example. In other words, these measures would now be needed. Do you think you can do that?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u76	Prime Minister Rinne, one minute, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u77	Thank you, Mr President. The Central Chamber of Commerce has identified Finland as the most difficult bottleneck from the point of view of growth bus networks, and now EUR 600 million is being put into the development of bus networks in order to make Finland’s economy grow and grow in a sustainable way. But with regard to this increase in employment rates: The government does not expect the social partners to tell us how many new jobs and jobs can be created, but it is the government's responsibility. In the context of the 2020 budget debate, the Government will assess the situation, with the aim of providing 30,000 new jobs as the basis for decision-making and 60,000 new jobs by 2023. In this career, the government hopes to be able to continue the entire parliamentary term. That is our objective. There is no need to involve the social partners, which I hope will help in this debate, but that is all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u78	Madam President! Now we are only talking about secondary students and teachers, but I would like to remind you that there is also a need for additional funding for primary schools, because they are laying the foundations for these secondary students. So you could say, “If you don’t get good student material from primary schools, it doesn’t matter how many teachers there are in secondary school. ” - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u79	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. It has become clear here how this draft amending budget is already a change of direction for more sustainable mobility across Finland, and indeed the focus is now on rail projects. The promotion of these rail projects must continue and their effectiveness must be compared with each other and the evaluation must be carefully carried out, as Mr Marin has said here. I am glad that education has also been raised, and also strongly on the part of the opposition. Education is our most important infrastructure that will strengthen employment both in the short term and in the long term. Youth unemployment, for example, has been criticised here. Well, that is what, for example, the continuation of compulsory education is a direct approach and a solution to it. Furthermore, as has been pointed out here, this draft amending budget reduces net borrowing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u80	Madam President! I too would like to thank the government for these contributions to the transport and infrastructure network and for the contributions that have been made to the future in this regard. However, here I believe that there is a very strong rail weight: about 80% of the funding is allocated to the railways and only 20% to the roads. I am concerned about you, my good government, whether you understand how the Finnish taxpayer moves. When looking at transport operations, 90 percent of both kilometres, tons, and passenger transport travel along the road and only 10 percent along the tracks. And then you have to look at what the Finnish taxpayer wants, how the roads and infrastructure are also being developed, and also at the regional policy. The good thing about the car is that it has rotating front wheels, as you can get all the way home with those shopping bags. So are you going to refine this distribution of transport money so that it is fair in terms of road transport and not just rail-loaded, as it now seems?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u81	Madam President! Mr Jokinen intervened in a very important matter, but, as was heard today in the state funds, the emphasis is in euros in such a way that EUR 500 million is spent on roads and EUR 400 million on rail projects, which means that the emphasis has been estimated at this level throughout this period. So it's not a big breakup. When rail investments are made, i.e. improved, new ones will be built, there will always be work for rubber wheels, just like for other machinery. This will also help to create jobs. And we must remember, as has been very much mentioned here in several speeches, that Finland is living from exports and is currently poking very strongly about rail transport — related to safety devices and this type of problem — so that it is improved, and it is very important to strengthen its vitality. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u82	Madam President! I have to join this group of thank-yous, too. Yes, the first amending budget of Antti Rinne's government tells us that in Finland we finally have a government that understands the interests of Finland as a whole, emphasises regionalism and the vitality of the regions, i.e. projects exist in the whole country, not just in the south. The competitiveness of Finland as a whole has now been taken into account and investments are being made in rails and roads and bottlenecks are being opened. In other words, we are on the right track now, and this will improve employment and Finland's competitiveness if anything. I must also point out that when the previous government cut 200 million in vocational education and training, now this government, under the leadership of Minister Andersson, is investing in vocational education and training, and there is now also money in the amending budget. And when you were concerned about this centurion of May Day, is it not good that this government wants to eliminate poverty and invest in pensioners who are particularly low incomes and low incomes and do not cut, as you did?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u83	Madam President! I think now is the time for Prime Minister Rinne to tell us what kind of increase in small pensions is coming. It looks like the Mayan centenary is shrinking to midsummer 10. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u84	Mr President! I'm a little interested in this disquieting position of the Coalition Party as well. It is, of course, good that the Coalition Party is now also concerned about pensions. For the past four years, you've been cutting low-income pensions, reducing purchasing power
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u89	Madam President! Congressman Viitanen, it would be good to stick to the truth. During the last parliamentary term, your current government partner, the centre, and under the leadership of the Coalition Party, the guarantee pension was increased several times, totalling EUR 40. It did not remain to be discussed; it was a concrete act that we wanted with the centre, the coalition and the centre, specifically targeted at the most low-income pensioners. However, as Mr Sarkomaa rightly pointed out, the principal mathematician of Kela, Tapio Isolankila, has said that you must break the pension system, Minister Rinne, if you are to stick to what you have promised. And you are not even going to hold on to it, because you promised EUR 100 in a clean hand to everyone who receives a pension of less than EUR 1,400, and now you have forgotten about the more than 400,000 pensioners who receive between EUR 1000 and EUR 1,400. Why did you betray the promise you made them?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u90	Mr President! Perhaps it is not a good idea to get too stuck in old memories, but it is now necessary to correct Mr Heinonen's view that, first of all, with regard to this increase in guaranteed pensions, it was barely enough to compensate for the index cuts you have made. And as for the most low-income pensioners, the lowest-income pensioners, four years in a row, you cut national pension from national pensioners. Four years in a row, in the last year more than 300 euros a year. Every year you cut pensions, representatives of Heinonen and Orpo, when you were in the government, from those who have built this country for us. This trend is being reversed, and now the government has decided that the income of the most low-income pensioners will be improved,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u91	Madam President! Yes, Mr Lindtman, it is a question of one of the secrets of your election victory being precisely this centurion, a promise for pensioners on low incomes, and it is a question of what Mr Heinonen is calling for to be kept here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u95	Madam President! When the SDP grows up as if it were in the opposition, to praise itself as a defender of pensioners, I am obliged to ask where is the promised correction of the Lipponen index, the correction of the folded index. [Laughter — intermediate calls]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u96	Prime Minister Rinne, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u97	Mr President! What I have promised as President of the SDP before coming to the Prime Minister's office: I have promised that the level of small pensions will be increased by EUR 100 within a year, when the state of public finances allows it. So this is the promise that has been made. Raise EUR 100 over a period of one year and if the public finances allow it. What we are about to do now: at the beginning of 2020 we will be raising up to around EUR 1 000 net with no money, EUR 50 per month net income for these pensioners, and from then on some tens up to EUR 1,400. This is what is currently being calculated and what model is being taken forward. I cannot say this more precisely because we also want this matter to be carefully prepared so that it comes here to be decided so that everyone understands what is about to be decided. But for everyone, the first step is coming. It comes to those who earn less than EUR 1000 as a pension, 50 euros net, in a clean hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u98	Madam Speaker! Somehow I feel awfully easy being the chairman of the central parliamentary group here, and do you know why? Because we've had the same speeches before and after the election. But now, if you listen to this criticism of the opposition from both the Finns and the assembly, it comes to mind the old free fire drill, that it was misfired, that you turned off these problems and so on, but the wrong one has been extinguished.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u101	Madam President! Yes, it is the case that those low-income people there have been waiting for it in the polls for the May Day or whatever it is called. There are many women on low incomes, there are elderly people, and there are those who wonder whether they buy drugs or buy food. I would have asked about the social reform, but now that this resource is being allocated to it, how things are going. After all, there will certainly be increases in service charges and various costs for the elderly, so is there now any information on these: will you pardon the many people who are sick and elderly who use the services, or how are you going to proceed with this social welfare reform now? It's very important. Those promises must be kept, and it is, of course, the case that when you have advertised here that this government has taken off, then suddenly it will also become a submarine.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u102	Mr President! It's not hard to share money, and it's not a flying start. The income side is that concern, and that is why, apart from you, Prime Minister Rinne, you owe me an explanation for this crop of butter, which is so much to be expected, so 12.6. At the A-Studio you said that the government is making significant investments in employment-friendly measures in the amending budget. Now I do not see the measures to promote employment here, so I would like to ask when the government is going to hold the genuine negotiations in which these employment measures are agreed. The role of the social partners in this was also very unclear. You said earlier that they are responsible and that these employment measures are being prepared with them. Now you have said that this is not the case. It further underscores the question of when the government is going to meet to decide on employment measures, because it is also an essential issue in securing these election promises.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u103	Mr President! There is a great deal of demand here for measures affecting employment, and it is, of course, a good thing that people are interested in them. Now there are these future investments in the government's amending budget, in which both investment in transport projects and in vocational training are the means proposed by the social partners in the trio you are asking for. So have you read the news at all, Mr opposition? It has been said specifically that you should invest in education. Employers complain about the shortage of skilled workers. Is it not, then, that investment in vocational education and training is a means of improving employment? As far as these transport projects are concerned, I thought I heard that, thanks to these efforts, more than 7,000 person-years are coming. The construction of transport projects does, of course, work. Are these not good enough for the opposition at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u104	Mr President! Real life is based on facts. Representative Orpo, for the last four years we waited in North Savo and Upper Savo in the Iisalme region for you to loosen the purse strings in the Ministry of Finance and also give money for railway projects there. I felt that the purse strings just tightened, and when you came to the edge of Ring 3, it seemed that you closed your eyes as you looked northward. We were totally out of it. [ Arja Juvonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u105	Mr President! I, at least, appreciate the respect of the decisions of the previous Parliament by the sitting parliament, and the previous Parliament considered it particularly important that the electrification of the Ylivieska-Iisalmi track be carried out,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u108	Now, gradually, let's get to the end of this debut. I give the floor to Mr Salonen, Mr Peltokangas, Mr Kiuru, Mr Östman and Mr Adlercreutz. Then let's go to the ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u109	Mr President! As a member of the opposition himself until a moment ago, I believe that the opposition has a very important role to play in challenging the government. However, credibility in politics is not enhanced by the artificial way in which it is done. Mr Kopra started his speech here earlier in a very constructive way, but after thanking him, he began to downplay and raise credit for the previous government, as Mr Estilä said just now. Everyone in Parliament last season knew how hard it was to get funding for infrastructure in any region — absolutely impossible. My impression has also been that now that the new government has started, for example, planning is on the way back, and that is why we have not been able to start projects in the regions at the pace that would have been hoped for. I would have asked Minister Marin: Is that right? Is there even a lack of planning and funding in particular during the last period?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u111	Madam President! Government infra-projects are certainly to be welcomed, and I am very pleased that they have been taken up. Of course, the Ostrobothnia has been forgotten once again, and I wonder very much about it because we have Kasitie and road 63, on which we are now working very hard from the lithium mine. I'm surprised the finance minister is sitting on his wallet and not handing out his helping hand to that country in Ostrobothnia. I hope that this kind of action will be taken. I thank the Prime Minister for what he has now told the Finnish people. It is a place where the people have been stirred up by this ministerial aid fund. There is a huge number, an unprecedented number of assistants and secretaries of state. I thank the Prime Minister for telling me that this is a question of the EU Presidency and others. Now, I think we will be happy to say that once the EU presidency is over, then we will be able to rawle the useless. Or is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u112	Madam President! Equality is an important issue and it must also be taken into account in these transport projects. Firstly, I would like to thank the Government — rail projects are climate projects, they are transport policy projects and they are also housing projects. The inequality that we have had, a clear distortion, is between the provinces. For example, Pirkanmaa, as my colleague, Mr Viitanen knows well, has only received 2% of the state's transport money, even though our GDP is 8%. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u113	Madam President! This draft amending budget is indeed a major amending budget for the transport routes, and it is certainly to be expected and hoped for. When the fields were circling, there was a great deal of people’s hopes for the traffic routes, and they felt that there were major problems. The transport projects that are now being launched not only provide employment for people — the opposition has criticised the fact that these transport projects do not provide sufficient employment, but nevertheless they are job-creating projects — but also support regional vitality and strengthen the conditions for businesses to operate and promote export opportunities for business. These are important projects. After listening to the opposition's speeches, you first praise these transport projects, that is a good thing, but then you criticise the fact that they do not provide sufficient employment. However, I myself have been working in the construction sector in the past, and I know that the construction sector and road projects also employ a large number of people and businesses, small businesses, particularly in those regions and regions. We hope that there will be more of these projects, and I hope that there will also be more of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u114	Madam President! As a first point, I would like to be so boring as to return to this amending budget, as I have just said, and forget about the May Day. I would like to ask Mr Andersson, now that there is money for vocational education and training: it is the case that this money is aimed at where there is a shortage of labour, at those sectors, at their vocational training. Business is screaming for new professionals. And has the wise government now really made such a wise decision that we are directing it toward the bottlenecks for which the money is needed? Is it possible that this money could enable conversion training to be carried out precisely in those sectors where we have labour shortages so that we can respond to the shortage of labour in life by this government and by these decisions?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u115	Mr President! The focus of this amending budget is indeed on the tracks, as Mr Jokinen said earlier, among other things. But unlike Mr Jokinen, apparently, I think it is an important choice of values for the climate and for the smooth movement of people. In the speeches of the Coalition Party, this unfortunate climate perspective is often forgotten. Ready-to-start projects will be launched and, of course, this will have to be continued in the autumn. It is a pleasure to hear that, for example, the rapid start-up of the Espoo urban railway will also receive support from the opposition. It and the other major rail projects mentioned here are absolutely central to Finland's future, climate objectives and competitiveness. It is great that Mr Marin has opened up precisely these categories of scale and the process of progress in this area. The government is committed to promoting these projects in its programme. Of course, less than 300 million in total government finances do not yet go to the moon, but it is very good that the government is so quickly addressing many of the painful needs, including those that have been made during the long period of the coalition government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u116	Irade the Talman! I think this is a pretty good draft amending budget, when it receives most of the praise. The criticism is that not all the world's projects are involved. [From left: Finland is enough!] But we have to prioritize, we have to prioritize the projects. It would also create negative effects that would lead to an increase in price levels, i.e. they simply need to be amortised. The urban track is an important project. It is an important project for traffic in Turku, the airport, and I think it will come in due course, but we must not set the urban track against the good level of lawmaking.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u119	President! I agree with Adlercreutz's analysis that it's pretty good. It's not good, but it's pretty good. And Mrs Torniainen, who criticised the opposition for simply barking at us: I did not ask for this speech to be barked at, but I have not received an answer. The government talks about investments in 600 million traffic, and the province of Ostrobothnia has never been mentioned. I do not know whether it has been deliberately omitted to answer this question, but I will say again: the highway. 8, Vaasa-Kokkola, 8 million. That is 1.3% of the total financial package and the amount you are talking about. Do you think that Ostrobothnia would be entitled to such an investment, if not now in this context, even in the near future?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u120	Mr Mäenpää and then the ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u121	Madam President! There have been good speeches here and thanks have come from both teaching and road projects. There has been an increase in the number of government assistants. I think that brings about EUR 6 million per year, and this will mean EUR 24 million in taxpayers' money during your reign. Minister Rinne, you said in some words that there will be more assistants being hired to ensure that they survive, I do not remember exactly. In the eyes of the public, this doubling of the number of assistants appears to be hiring people who have fallen out of Parliament. In short, Prime Minister, it seems that the number of assistants is the glue that holds your government together. When you talked about staying alive and standing together, did you mean keeping the government alive?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u122	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank you for this active debate on this amending budget. And actually the atmosphere I have sensed here is that we are quite satisfied that we have been able to invest more than EUR 600 million in the transport infrastructure, of which EUR 260 million in total additional money for basic infrastructure management, once all these projects have been carried out, will add EUR 40 million this year. It must be remembered that during the time of Minister Orpo, during the previous government, during the time of Orpo, who served as Minister of Finance, it seems that this year was much less than the EUR 300 million that had been agreed in parliamentary terms, and now it has been increased. Since next year there will be 300 million frames of money for this basic infrastructure every year, so that additional resources have been mobilised in the transport routes, including the roads. As far as these assistants are concerned, I would like to reiterate once again that we have EUR 2.9 million to add the necessary funding to this team of assistants-secretaries of state, the recruitment of ministers. I think we have one more minister in relation to the previous government. We have five parties compared to the three parties in the previous government. We have an EU Presidency that is about to begin; it will require considerable additional resources so that we can manage this next six months anyway. We now need additional resources that can handle this job properly, so that no one kills themselves by working, not by assistants or ministers, and safety at work is maintained for this group. This is the reason why these people have been hired here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u123	Madam President! Mr Kurvinen asked about transport taxation. At the moment, it is intended that during the period a study will be carried out on how long transport taxation will be developed. Before this study is completed, there will be no significant changes. And when there is always a question of car taxation, I can say that nothing about it is being prepared at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u124	Mr President! Firstly, the answer to this question is whether Ostrobothnia has been forgotten. Well, I wouldn't say that, in fact, there is a significant amount of investment in basic bus maintenance as well as in these new development projects: EUR 70 million for the renewal of the safety equipment at the end of the life cycle of the Seinäjoki section, for the renewal of safety equipment and for the installation of the missing safety equipment Kokkola-Pietarsaari EUR 12 million for the railway section. Similarly, this EUR 11 million appropriation for further planning of the Helsinki-Tampere main railway will continue to benefit transport connections to the north, including Ostrobothnia. The electrification of the rail section of Iisalmi-Ylivieska and the triangular line of Iisalme — an authorisation of EUR 55 million — also have a connection and importance for business transport to Ostrobothnia. And just as much on Highway 3 improvement, this Hämeenkyrö bypass — we are talking about Vaasantie, this is a significant bottleneck at the moment on Vaasantie — has an impact on Ostrobothnia. In other words, with regard to these investments, it cannot be concluded that the country of the North has somehow been forgotten; on the contrary, many of these projects are very positive to the country of the North. [Peter Östman's interlude] With regard to the Jokis question, the question that has already been raised here, in favour of basic bus maintenance, in particular the maintenance of the roads, this government is investing EUR 300 million more in basic bus maintenance per year. This will be seen in the 2020 budget itself, i.e. a significant additional investment in basic infrastructure management. As far as these employment effects are concerned, the direct impact on employment of these projects alone is 7,400 person-years and, of course, the impact on employment generated by maintaining the vitality, strengthening the competitiveness of the regions. Of course, these too are important for employment, but the direct impact on employment is 7,400 person-years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u125	Mr President! Once again, it has been great to listen to speeches that thank you for your contributions to education. I know that, in particular, the concern about the situation in vocational education and training is one that has been divided across party boundaries, and now we are actually starting to correct this through the amending budget this year by investing these future investment funds in the recruitment of teachers and instructors in vocational education and training. I also think it is important to make an important choice from the government to bring forward these future investments in order to mobilise these training efforts as quickly as possible. Just as Mrs Myllykoski said in her own speech, so education and training efforts are both a means of ensuring the employment rate and equality of this society in the long term, but they also provide fast-term solutions for those sectors that are particularly in need of skills. Then, briefly, when Mr Juvone asked about aptitude tests at an earlier stage. I am in the impression that OKM has already amended this regulation and that it will come into force so that it will apply to training which begins on 1.8. this year. In other words, in these so-called SORA sectors, it will be possible for the organiser of education to do this, if he so wishes, to carry out such a pruning aptitude and entrance test.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u126	Madam President! There were a few questions here. First, for municipalities to finance education: It comes in the normal budget when municipal index freezes and kiky cuts are cancelled. They also facilitate the organisation of normal education in municipalities. The second question here is how the social security system is going to proceed: It will be seen when the social security system starts to move forward, its impact on customer fees and so on. They do not yet exist in this additional budget. This is the 211 million which is, therefore, the three-year transfer allocation in order to continue the social welfare reform in the regions. The point is that this amending budget limits it to the further development of social welfare and health care and rescue services and can therefore be applied for by municipalities, joint municipal authorities, mainly hospital districts and other communities. In addition to this, there are 4 million specific funding for research into integration and then there is the important part to which it is hoped that the regions can continue, the coordination of the ict and the national development of this whole ict system, and that is what is being directed at. So no separate organisation is being built in the regions, but now the municipalities and joint municipal authorities are the applicants. I also hope that the municipalities together, even without a separate joint municipal authority, will go for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u127	Did Secretary Haraka have any questions? I don't think so. — Let us now go to the list of speakers, and first of all, Mr Aittakumpu, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u128	Mr President! We have heard good statements from both sides of the Chamber on education, which I am happy to support myself. It is important that we work together on how to develop our education. In three or five years' time, both my own children and many children sitting in this room and outside the hall will not be in vocational school, and it is important that vocational training is a longer-term target for our development and that we make long-term improvements to it. But this EUR 20 million increase in the recruitment of teachers in this amending budget is a good and important step towards this acute, painful situation in vocational training at the moment. Mr President! The Government already has many good measures in support of employment and entrepreneurship in its programme, and hardly anyone in my home town, Oulu, or Northern Finland, for example, is denying that the completion of the city’s deep port would have a significant impact on employment and vitality in the region. Of course, it will affect us when we get bigger ships into the port that can hold more stuff. It must also be acknowledged that these good decisions in the amending budget are not just the result of this government, but of long-term work. For example, the just mentioned Port of Oulu was already launched during the reign of the historic Sipilä, and now it will be completed when the need for additional money has arisen. Madam President! In particular, projects to improve the condition of rail transport will now be launched in the additional budget. For the city centre, it is absolutely essential that the roads in the whole country are also in good condition. If it wasn't for the highways, I wouldn't be here myself. Kiimingin Ylikylä can't reach the airport or railway station except on rubber wheels, and the expansion of Kuusamantie will soon start. I hope that's what we'll come back to a little later. Madam President! It should also be borne in mind that the Government Programme has agreed that an annual increase of EUR 300 million will be made in basic infrastructure management from 2020 onwards. The Centre also requires that money be spent during the current parliamentary term on the rehabilitation of the lower-level road network and on private roads, to which we also agreed on expenditure increases in the Government Programme. The Government's draft amending budget is good, important and, overall, very well supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u129	Mr President! With regard to this draft amending budget, I would like to raise two points which, in my view, show a significant change of direction compared to the policy of the previous government. There has been a lot of talk here in the debate about election promises and, speaking of which, the previous government completely forgot the promise of education. To compensate for the previous government's promise of training already in this amending budget, this investment of EUR 20 million in vocational training will be more than necessary. I myself follow vocational training closely, and in many places the situation has been quite impossible, even chaotic. Concerned messages about the decrease in teaching hours have come from teachers, students and also from representatives of working life. I have discussed the number of teachers who have lost their jobs and the number of students who have been wondering about independent studies. Employers have also come to the message that they cannot take students who do not even have the basic skills to work at the workplace, especially when the teacher has no chance of guiding students at the workplace. During the last government term, 1,600 teachers were deducted from vocational education and the number of teachers fell by 20 per cent, although at the same time the number of students increased. This earmarked money in the draft amending budget is an important contribution to the recruitment of teachers, the first proof of the restoration of the honour of vocational education and training. In vocational education, it is important that students have five days of education a week. Of course, education can take place in educational institutions and workplaces, but it is essential that there is a daily teacher alongside the student who ensures that the skills increase and that the studies are not interrupted. Indeed, many 16-year-olds do not yet have the capacity to study independently on their own, as has now been the case for many students because of these savings. Close interaction between teacher and student helps students best in their studies and also reduces interruptions. It is important for teachers to feel that they can do their job properly, and I have received a lot of positive feedback from teachers on this budget increase. They feel that this is a great appreciation for the work they are doing, that their message has finally been heard. Another important future investment in the amending budget is investment in the development of basic bus maintenance and the transport network across Finland. As a representative of Parliament in Savokarja, I particularly welcome the allocation for electrification of the Iisalmi-Ylivieska railway section and the Iisalme triangular track and the improvement of the Joensuu railway yard. Improvements in the Joensuu railway yard will strengthen traffic flow and safety both in passenger transport and in industrial transport. There has also been a lot of talk here in the debate about the management of employment. The estimated employment impact of this project in Joensuu and the region as a whole is over 2,000 person-years. This is a huge and significant issue for Joensuu and the whole of North Karelia. And at the same time, I would like to send special thanks to all those involved in the project in my province: there is indeed strength in doing it together. Mr President! In addition to these two important investments in the future, it is also worth thanking this amending budget for making it possible to use the funds earmarked for the preparation of the derelict regional and social welfare reform for the restructuring of social and health services and for measures to promote productivity. In many areas of Finland, very good reforms have been carried out in recent years, and it is important that the regions now send out a message that reforms aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of their activities can, can and should continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u130	Mr President! It was called for and asked for real government negotiations here today. Here I began to wonder when the real opposition policy of the coalition will begin. It was rather bizarre to listen to those speeches which, on the one hand, immediately demanded, for example, the Espoo track, which is part of the Turku project, and, on the other hand, criticised the employment impact of these projects now being carried out and the projects planned. After all, during the last term of the government, we made good preparations with the Coalition Party for these project companies, and then they were very much moving forward. I still remember in March when Mr Grahn-Laasonen declared in the paper that preparation should be slowed down and not taken to decision-making, inter alia because small towns were not included in these project companies. But time will come and time will change and the government will change, and it is great to see how quickly this government brought about this draft amending budget. Above all, thank you to the whole government and ministers Lintilä and Marin. All in all, it can be said that economic policy will continue to be responsible and, above all, it is important that the need for debt is reduced. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight a few details, above all that this amending budget will provide Pirkanmaa with the funding needed in other tastes for the development of the main track and for Third Street. After all, the level of funding has been inadequate for a long time and, above all, on Highway 3 it has had an impact on safety and traffic flow. As Mr Kiuru has said today, Pirkanmaa has remained in the back of the lane in relation to the population base. After all, the government’s amending budget now contains many good news for Pirkanmaa. Funding will be provided for the Hämeenkyrö bypass, the development of the Helsinki-Tampere main line, the Tampere-Säinäjoki section and the Akaa raw wood terminal. The third route is part of the national main body network, and the Tampere–Vasa connection has not met the service level requirements of the highway. Traffic safety in many respects is weak and there are many dangerous interfaces, slow road sections and roundabouts that are difficult for heavy traffic. This is perhaps the main reason why we have been pursuing this project for a long time, because when this Hämeenkyrö bypass is launched, it primarily serves business and businesses. Of course, on behalf of its own region, it is happy that for decades, since the 1950s, the planned and spoken project will finally be implemented and that this government is now ready for it, because road and rail projects, and above all road projects, are not only linked to the fact that we are now making a path, but that planning for the region and land use is, above all, one of the key elements. It concerns both housing construction and the supply of business plots, which has also been planned and acquired for a long time in that area, and now we are finally getting there. As far as railway projects are concerned, it is important to note that it is the funding promised to plan the development of the Helsinki-Tampere main railway line that we have seen, especially in the last year, the delays of trains and the problems that have occurred between them. This too is something that has been talked about a great deal but has not been achieved. Now these measures are being taken by this government, and I thank you for that. The representative, Esko Kiviranta, also said that this is somewhat different from the supplementary budgets that have often been, and that is how it is. This speed is very positive and the fact that these measures to improve employment now begin immediately and also have far-reaching effects throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u131	Mr President! First of all, when we here, both from the opposition and from the government parties, praise this amending budget, it must of course be said that it has been quite easy to produce this when you look at what the previous government has done. It is only by correcting those mistakes that we are already receiving such fresh praise in the Chamber. It is true that, in transport projects in particular, this government has already reached the conclusion in the amending budget that we jointly decided on the money for transport together. Modeling things, responsible policies. It must be said that right now we need these investments in transport, not only in the business sector, but also in the employment sector. If you look at the final stages of the last parliamentary term, you can say that the infrastructure was a round zero, which was a cold turn for the joint decisions of the parliamentary working party. Now we're going to fix it. It is important that rail projects are at the forefront here, not to mention you. But, of course, as about 100 people and living on Kasittie — although the Satakunta received money in this amending budget and it is taken into account — it must also be noted that the interconnection is the only motorway without a rail network, and it must also be taken into account that either it is developed for rubber wheels or it must be re-examined when we want to build the main line and its investment plans in case we are, as it were, ready for the TEN-T network, so it should be borne in mind that there is also a great deal of opportunities for cross-border transport to liberalise the main line more to passenger traffic if we are able to assess the investments that are taking freight traffic away from the main tracks. Knowing, for example, that an investment of 900 million is planned in Pirkanmaa to transfer the railway station, its entire railway system, from the city centre, as an alternative to saving money from it, would at least be to investigate the reduction of traffic on the Pori-Haapamäki rail link and the allocation of other investment needs to the main railway line, to see if, instead of building exclusively double tracks, we can make reasonable investments on the main line. It was a pleasure to see that the safety devices and their meaning have now been noted. Many times here we are barking at the State Railways, forgetting how much tardiness is due to the lack of safety equipment and traffic control mechanisms. We need to put them in order so that we can dream of fast and scheduled rail connections. As far as vocational education and training is concerned, it is great that Mr Andersson can now present here the solutions that have been introduced into this amending budget. This shows the government's common will to identify the problem of the EUR 400 million cut in the long term, between 13 and 18. If we want fewer drop-outs in this country, we need to invest specifically in these supporting activities. Such different learners, as Mrs Myllykoski once had, need support today. Our local education numbers are so inadequate that, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said here, students and those who have completed school do not even have the capacity to enter the labour market. Now that this amending budget has clearly identified these needs, it is up to this government to take their hats off. Let us hope for success in the future in those projects that will enable us to create a skilled, professional workforce in those sectors that are currently lacking in skills even more quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u132	Mr President! Economic policy will continue to be responsible in the new government. For the first time, Minister for Finance The additional budget proposal prepared under the leadership of Lintilä reduces debt by more than EUR 130 million compared to the amending budget adopted during the last parliamentary term. Strengthening employment and economic growth will require further action, and this is what the government will do. According to the Government Programme, no means of improving employment is excluded. Meeting the government's employment objective and balancing public finances require reforms to increase labour supply and demand. There is still a threshold for central government finances to be balanced in 2023 and the employment rate to rise to 75%. They're holding on to these. Transport projects launched through the amending budget will support employment, regional vitality, strengthen the conditions for businesses to operate and promote export opportunities for business. Under the leadership of the Centre Party, the rehabilitation of indecent roads will continue during the last parliamentary term, and resources will also be allocated to the rehabilitation of the lower-level road network and private roads during the current parliamentary term. This is a very wise regional policy. In addition to the amending budget, it should be borne in mind that the Government Programme records that, as proposed by the Parliamentary Working Group, an annual increase of EUR 300 million will be made in basic infrastructure management from 2020 onwards. Strong measures will therefore be taken to develop the fairway network and maintain the basic route. The additional appropriations for 2019 set out in the second amending budget amount to EUR 40 million for basic bus maintenance and EUR 71 million for the development of the network, i.e. a total of EUR 111 million. For example, the network is being developed through investments on the highway 3 Hämeenkyrö bypass. The project aims to improve the flow and safety of transport and transport. It also means smoother traffic towards the North and towards the North. For example, the additional money for basic bus maintenance enables the renewal and isolation of safety equipment on the Tampere-Säinäjoki railway section and a number of other projects that prepare and strengthen the future. In concrete terms, therefore, the government shows that regional policy has made a strong return. Mr President! However, it is quite clear that the additional budgeting measures for the rail network and for road transport are just the beginning. We are at the beginning of a good path where there is plenty of unworked work to be done. The country-wide artery of rail traffic, the main railway line, also targets the strong planning and implementation needs north of Tampere. The Government Programme itself will take note of this. The main track is therefore a whole that continues comprehensively throughout the country. For example, double track between Tampere and the Seinäjoki River is an extremely important issue of vitality policy, as is the whole track map, the main track plus towards the north. In addition to budget funding, we need separate financing solutions, such as the Government Programme Book, on a project-by-project basis, in order to plan and implement vital and significant actions. Similarly, road transport continues to face challenges, including those that are not impossible to finance, more of serving road users and ensuring the safety and smooth running of business. For example, Highway 19, which is part of the national main bus network, does not meet the criteria for the main bus network. For a long time, road safety and smoothness have been beyond doubt in terms of pass-by needs and uplifts. I hope that in the future the government will also look at these areas that await the measures. Mr President! As part of the ‘Knowledge,civilisation andinnovations’,the totalfutureinvestments are presented as an increase of EUR20million in the Through this example, the government is also showing that the difficulties of vocational education and training, on the one hand, and the whole field of education, education, training and research, on the other hand, are being addressed. This is exactly the way to go. Education as a whole is largely a measure of the civilised state, and all the measures targeted at it are future measures. Mr President! I thank the government for these proposed measures. Although there is a lot of unfinished business, I know that these proposals are steps towards a better Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u133	Mr President! In the opinion of the Finns Party, we need to be better able to prioritise what we spend public money on. In this respect too, the Finns of Peru are strongly different from both the traditional left and the right. The difference between them is not so much whether to waste it or not. Both sides are very willing to spend public money on secondary expenditure, such as European integration or, above all, immigration. The difference is mainly whether they want to produce secondary activities directly through state money or whether they want to intervene in the private sector to withdraw their own profits. The Finns of Peru want to prioritize. We want resources for the care of the elderly and the care measure, investments in young people and their studies and the survival of pensioners and elderly people. On the other hand, we want to push into the operating list items such as immigration, EU transfers and social assistance abroad. The fool is not the one who pays, but the one who pays the others, not his own. As the outlook deteriorates, the maintenance of domestic demand and investment is becoming increasingly important that negative future expectations do not begin to feed themselves. For ideological reasons, energy and climate policy must not take national decisions that are severely penalising, as the government is now doing. Similarly, the link between development aid and humanitarian immigration to the improvement of the world is unclear to say the least, but it is certain that they contribute to increasing statutory expenditure, which no subsequent government can easily correct. Mr President! In working life, Finns also want to maintain a needs test. The present government no longer seems to appreciate that. Will our own citizens and their well-being be abandoned to the altars of immigration and foreign countries? If we don't do what's best for us, who's gonna do it? Nobody. Mr President! There was a very good debate here just now on this amending budget, and a few points I would like to comment on. This Parliament asked how the government would increase the number of assistants in this economic situation, and Minister Rinne replied that it would increase the number in order to stay alive and nobody in the government would kill themselves with work. These comments are understandable, of course. It is good that people do not work too much, however. But I'd like to ask you: How do you see the coming summer? How do you see the care of the elderly and the lack of nurses and the lack of hands to help? There is no elderly person who can ask for help if there are no nurses there. It is very important that when a hot summer comes, we remember that in a hot summer there will be elderly people, there will be elderly people in nursing homes, and they may die in good luck because they do not have enough helpers. The people will have to pull the belt tighter but, at the same time, state money is ready to be wasted recklessly on administration and job descriptions, for which there may not even be clarity. This increase in the number of assistants is somewhat at odds, among other things, with the fact that in 2014 we had a KEHU committee here in Parliament, a parliamentary committee assessing the structure of the single government, of which I was also a member. Among other things, it stated: ‘If the system of secretaries of State wishes to be maintained,it is important to consider whether the Ministers of State should be appointed a Secretary of State for Policy. At the same time, this change could require a reduction in the number of other political assistants. When the system of political secretaries was established, it was found that it was possible to reduce the number of other special assistants. In any case, permanent rules should be established for the appointment of state secretaries and political assistants. “ Mr President! A few more withdrawals from this amending budget. The Government invests in vocational education and training. I think it is very important that aptitude tests should be returned immediately to, among other things, nursing schools. It would have been possible to introduce them in the spring, but this has not been the case. The suitability tests were removed the last time the SDP was in the government by your Minister for Education at the time, Krista Kiuru, and this has proved to be a completely wrong policy. I hope that these wrong political movements will not take place during this regime. [Quick Five] We've been talking about the traffic infrastructure. It is a great thing to invest in transport, but I also think it is important to encourage people to buy low-emission cars. I see that when the gas tax rises, this too can become a challenge. I would also like the government to listen to the budget initiatives that, among other things, are always made on an annual basis. I myself made nearly 40 budget initiatives in relation to the roads. Among other things, the Kelliber Mine is rising in the municipality of Kaustinen in Central Ostrobothnia, and I have considered it very important that the roads are also being repaired so that small schoolchildren and travelers can move very safely there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u137	Mr President! There was such a good speech by Mr Juvonen that I hope he will remember to hold it at the party meeting for which it was certainly planned. That's the way the word flew. But let us return to this draft amending budget, which is the first in the order of the Rinte government. In this regard, the Government is proposing a range of investments, both smaller and larger, worth over EUR 160 million. The lion's share of these is in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications: various bus and rail projects and the reduction of the road network repair debt. This can therefore be regarded as a desirable development in itself. Railways, fairways and maritime routes are a kind of vascular system for the Finnish economy. Without a logistics network, we would not be able to export Finnish products to the export market, obtain raw materials or fill the shelves with goods. For this reason, I would like to thank the government for making a small amount of money available to improve the routes. However, it is noteworthy that the debt of correction remains high. For regional projects, I would particularly like to thank the Government's proposal that the Oulu railway yard be renovated and that security equipment be provided in this area. I am equally grateful to the Government for the fact that the project initiated by the Sipilä Government: The transport depth of the Oulu fairway, i.e. practically increasing the capacity of the port of export, is now being completed. Mr President! Apart from the projects already agreed on, it is appropriate to ask a question about what the government has actually forgotten about in Northern Finland. The Rinte Board of Directors proposes an additional EUR 11 million in planning the Helsinki-Tampere main track, but why is it that the planning work is not started in a comprehensive way to the northern parts of the main railway line, even up to Oulu and Tornio, when there is life on the north side of Tampere? The Government's approach to limiting the planning project to the south of Tampere is not a comprehensive European rail transport development policy. The EU Commission has proposed the integration of the main line into the TEN-T core network corridor, which would allow the use of CEF funding as part of the project. When this funding starts to be distributed in 2021, by which time the plans should be ready, why is this kind of opportunity not taken in this connection? Mr President! I am also surprised that in the amending budget, the government will not carry out the construction of the Poikkimatie road leading to the port of Oulu and the third track of Oritkari, which would support rapidly growing northern exports, despite the fact that the majority of our constituents are members of the government parties. It is completely silly that the port route of Oulu is first reeded in the primary condition, but the traffic infrastructure that leads to the port itself is then left on the wreckage. This makes as much sense as buying a printer and not even planning on getting ink on it at all. I can't believe it. We should all understand that export-driven growth is in the interests of small Finland. For example, the forest industry will grow dramatically in our northern region in the future. It would therefore be extraordinary not to invest in the road and rail infrastructure of port transport, thus creating a bottleneck for our export companies. Against this background, starting the design of the main line only in the Helsinki-Tampere area is short-sighted part-optimization. The whole main line needs to be developed. For example, the critical Liminka-Oulu dual track is missing from the project list. Mr President! The list of projects to be supported in this amending budget as such reflects the Rinte Government programme quite well: small investments are made there and here and without a clear strategic overall line. However, the genuine promotion of the large railway blocks that have been widely displayed before the elections shines with their absence. I would ask the government whether it is actually going to bring down the practical implementation of these challenging major projects and the search for funding for the next governments, even though it itself, in the run-up to the elections, collected political points by speaking for them. Contrary to promises, major rail projects have not started at a rapid pace, as can be seen, among other things, from this draft amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u138	Mr President! Thanks to the hard-working and entrepreneurial tax revenues of the Finnish State, this draft amending budget is forecast to exceed the originally budgeted amount of EUR 300 million. Finns once again showed that sustainable well-being does not result from taking an even greater share of people’s money, but from people’s own desire to improve their own and their loved ones’ lives, to work, to take risks and to try. Dear government, the power of reason be with you. Forget your planned tax increases, congestion charges, and other irrational cuts in people's freedom. Instead, active, conscientious, working, trying are rewarded. Give the measures you have promised to improve employment, cherish Finland of the hardworking. Only then will the money be enough for welfare after you. Serious concerns about the government’s finances arise when you consider, for example, the government’s intention to increase the administration of Kela with this amending budget. Is this your idea of a responsible way of spending people's money, millions of euros on new governance? Moreover, should the increase in employment that you want not reduce the need to deal with income support? One of the big promises made by the Red Green Government parties was to promote major rail transport projects that are important for Finland both north, east and west. Well, it was a big surprise when it became clear that these big rail projects, fast connections and capitalization of the project companies were not actually earmarked as a real future investment in the Government Programme. Instead, the government intends to spend money from the sale of state assets on current expenditure. Mr President! Of course, the Government's current contributions to the transport infrastructure in the amending budget are to be welcomed. They are intended to improve the smooth running of rail and road transport. That is a very sensible objective. On the other hand, I reject the call made in public by Minister Marin for transport to reduce the need for people to move. This would be contrary to reason, wouldn't it? The hardworking Finland does not sit on the couch, but is moving — even in its own car. The anti-motorisation of the government is now reflected in the fact that the road network will eventually receive a rather modest share of these transport infrastructure funds. Even if the roads are being repaired, there is a legitimate question: why do you want to make driving so expensive that everyone can no longer afford to drive on these renovated roads?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u142	Mr President! It is good that the government has made a responsible start in this amending budget insofar as the increase in tax revenues above the forecast is used to curb debt, the framework is not broken and the undivided reserve is not exceeded. However, the state is still in debt despite the upturn, and, bearing in mind the basic message of the Ministry of Finance's latest forecast of the deterioration of the global outlook, structural reforms and employment measures are becoming urgent. In mid-June, Prime Minister Rinne said in A-Studio that in his first draft amending budget, the government made significant investments in measures to promote employment. However, on the basis of this debate, it remains unclear what these additional employment measures are as promised in the budget. So are they these infrastructure projects? Is there something else? The good thing about the amending budget is that many transport projects are implementing a parliamentaryly agreed line and promoting the competitiveness of the industry. Unfortunately, from Pirkanmaa’s point of view, highways 9 and 12 were still waiting, but it is particularly good to have the money for bypassing and designing the main track of highway 3 Hämeenkyrö — it also serves as a good start on this road. We have also spoken for these in the region together. However, I am still concerned about what has been strongly highlighted in this Chamber, even in the debate, that these rapid urban connections are being carried forward with the necessary vigour. These were promised to be promoted in a number of speeches, including the Prime Minister's statement, but no clear answer was given as to whether, for example, the main railway line would be able to apply for EU funding and whether the objective would continue to be to increase capacity and speed, or whether it would be less patching. Espoo's urban track would also be ready for faster steps. When's it going to go? Dear government, remember these central needs of cities and make a more accurate road map for this progress. In connection with this debate, it was also argued that the previous government would not have carried forward fast-track projects. This argument is not correct. - Yes, he did. The planning of the Turku hour train was carried forward, and a small seed money was added to the budget for this year’s main line. That is what Mr Marin referred to in his own speech, and if he had still been here, I would have directed my words to him that even such a small amount of money was of great importance as a head opener in the fact that the design of the main line has been mobilised. It should not be underestimated, and I hope that the Minister will not treat this EUR 1 million still in his budget as a joke, as he said here. It has meaning, and it must also be used for this purpose. Above all, during the previous government, a project company model was prepared, which would provide a rapid instrument for progressing on all three of these fast connections that have been mentioned here, starting with different directions, and I hope that the previous preparatory work will be utilised here. There has also been criticism here during the debate of a fair increase in the number of ministers' assistants. I cannot fail to comment on this in that I myself have been Secretary of State in two governments and in the last government I myself served five ministers in five different ministries. I can tell you it was a very demanding task, but it worked out. With this experience, which I myself have of these tasks, I can understand a small addition to these tasks, it will allow me to take a deeper look at things, but now almost every minister is about to receive his own Secretary of State and a number of special assistants. The number of assistants almost doubles, and it is therefore necessary to ask whether it is reasonable or what is a reasonable number. It's a good idea to evaluate. The Prime Minister justified this increase during the EU Presidency. So I ask whether the number of assistants will be reduced at the end of the Finnish Presidency or how has this been thought about? Finally, in the case of secondary teachers, it is necessary to ask why only a fixed-term increase is being made. However, I believe that this need is of a permanent nature. What happens to these teachers after that? There was no clear response to this here during the debate. My question is, why is there no lasting solution here? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u143	Mr President! I have to say that the government has taken on a strong starting point here, and I believe that the pace is accelerating. This is a very good start, however, that an amending budget has been established within three weeks, with significant investment in, among other things, investment in employment. These investments are not only important for employment but also for the competitiveness of Finland as a whole, and it is good that now, in three weeks' time, the government will immediately move these things around Finland. I was a little confused in that debate when I listened very carefully to the fact that it seemed like a lot of anger — apparently too much or too little of this money is coming, but in any case they were not happy with it, as we heard. In spite of the fact that we dug up the corresponding first amending budget, which the previous government did — almost four years ago it was dealt with here in the Chamber — guess how many transport projects it put in motion. Yeah, that's right. Zero songs. That in that sense, of course, the government has done a very swift work with regard to its predecessor. Similarly, I would like to stress that it is these projects which are creating employment in the order of 10,000 jobs directly already, and it is quite significant here in three weeks' time to make such investments. That a good start, and for that to the government, thank you and congratulations. Of course, as a Pirkanman, the vital things we have long hoped for and tried to promote are, of course, this Third Road. It is a very important and happy thing that it is now coming. Thank you, Social Democratic Minister Sanna Marin from Pirkanmaa, and thank you to the government for the swift start. Of course, long-term lobbying has also been carried out in the region. Similarly, the main track is important, and I cannot fail to say that during the last period, when we received this million dollars in planning money, we tried very hard to ensure that the supplementary budget would have included the 10 million more needed when we knew that it was needed. But then it didn't come. Now it is, and that too is important. In other words, as a representative of Pirkanmaa, for these reasons and for a number of other reasons, I am also very pleased with this move. Then I could say that, after all, this is another change of direction. In other words, an important first step is given to the plight of vocational education and training, which has been there. There will now be an increase in the budget of some 300 to 400 teachers. Of course, it is a big change of direction when last season the government made such a policy that 1,600 teachers were deducted from it. The Minister for the Coalition Party was very much involved at the time. Then this is also a change of direction in that overall policy is now turning cutting policy into a future policy. In view of this, it was interesting to follow this discussion in the debut, when the National Coalition Party and the Finns Party were very concerned that Kela’s expenses would be increased. But here is why, in this additional budget, they are growing. One of the reasons is that the previous government operated and thus needed to increase basic income support; the active model raised the need for this funding, as well as cuts to people with low income incomes, index freezes to various social benefits. In other words, as a result of the cuts, social aid expenditure is now increasing, which is the work of its own hands in this area. Fortunately, why, on the other hand, now slightly increase these expenditures is the opposite, i.e. improvements. And the Coalition Party is very angry now that these funds are being increased to Kela in order to increase the income of the most low-income pensioners. It's very important. We will stick to that goal. We will now take the first step, and I hope that even the assembly will not have the nerve and heart to resist us now increasing the livelihood of the lowest-income earners, EUR 1 000 and those who earn less, by EUR 50.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u146	Now let us stick to this list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u147	Mr President! For my part, I would like to warmly thank the government for the speed with which, in fact, only a few weeks after the start of the work, its first amending budget has been completed. Above all, I am delighted that the amending budget is a strong and convincing start by investing in the competitiveness of our country, in export and employment-friendly and supportive measures. Substantial transport investment will increase short-term growth and employment, but will certainly also strengthen longer-term objectives. Many respected business representatives have pointed out that bottlenecks in transport are one of the main obstacles to growth in addition to the availability of skilled labour. I therefore also welcome the immediate investment in vocational education and training. These measures are exactly what our export-driven country needs. At the same time, the government shows that we are serious about achieving the employment objective. At the same time, it is true that these items will also require considerable additional resources, and we will certainly return to them in later, actual, economic and budgetary proposals. I am a little confused, as Mr Viitanen has just said, about the debate that has taken place in this Chamber today and, above all, about the speeches that have been made by the delegation, as Mr Heinonen had already anticipated. One of these arguments has been the fact that the government still does not have any measures to promote employment. This was claimed earlier by Mr Orpo, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u152	Mr President! First of all, I will start with the positive aspects of the additional budget. In particular, investments in infrastructure development are important and welcome also in my province, Satakunta. For us, the condition of Highway 8 has been a cause of concern for a long time, especially because of the lack of a replacement rail link on the west coast, which in many other regions complements road infrastructure. This lack underscores the need for a proper road connection. In Satakunta, traffic volumes, especially in heavy traffic, have been growing strongly and have grown faster than in the rest of the country. When the condition of Highway 8 is very poor and many working people wait in the mornings and at the end of the day for their ride home, it is clear that the grounds for rapid road improvement are very heavy. As a Member of Parliament and member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I am very pleased to see that a long-running project to speed up Highway 8 has taken a step forward in the additional budget, and for this I would like to thank in particular the Minister for Finance, Mika Lintilä. An investment of EUR 30 million is an important step forward in putting Kasittie in order. Construction of a pair of bypass lanes on the Eura River and The measures taken between Luvia and the south of Laitila are in the right direction and the development measures now being taken at Mynämäki. The car driver, the working person, thanks for these contributions. A well-functioning transport infrastructure is a basic prerequisite for the success of our country. Without these smooth transport connections, it is not attractive to invest or to travel on a daily basis after work, possibly very far from home, as we do a lot on the west coast. Hundreds of them are geographical bags, so smoother connections are vital for the survival of our region. The government's action in this amending budget is therefore in the right direction, but there is still a great deal of work to be done. The next step should be the implementation of the Eura River Passage. As a result of the joint lobbying last season, the project was planned and the plans for the project are now in the process of being completed. I therefore hope that the government will now continue its good work to develop the infrastructure and take account of the financing of the Eura River bypass in the preparation of next year's budget. After this, the whole Pori-Turku interface should be converted into a four-band road and its planning work should be started. Mr President! Then, very briefly, these weaknesses in the government's economic policy, which are also linked to the additional budget, since this has come to a very high degree of praise. Today, we have raised the issue of the lack of government employment measures in this Chamber, including the additional budget, and, given what Mr Rinne said at Ylen A-Studio on 12 June, it can be said that, unfortunately, these employment measures are shining by their absence. Although many representatives here have said that infrastructure projects are also employment-intensive measures, that is true, but if you calculate per head, which is the cost of the job, it will rise to a very high level. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u153	And now, Congressman Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u154	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, it is a bit of a trifling point from a representative as experienced as Mr Viitanen to say that there was no transport project in the first amending budget of the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u163	This was a moment ago when Mr Viitanen spoke, Mr Heinonen asked for the debate. When I did not reply to Mr Heinos, for the sake of fairness, I did not respond to Mr Viitane either.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u164	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinne said that the government will increase its helping hands in order to keep the ministers of this government alive — to survive. How dare the Prime Minister talk like that? In this country, nurses burn out when they try to keep people alive, so I wonder how much it is possible for us politicians to be alienated from everyday life when we talk in this way in this Chamber. The previous government had 46 assistants, and in the additional budget you will grant the money to 84 high-paid assistants and, through this, you will raise to Parliament those MPs that the people decided to drop from the parliament. You will double the aid and you will build on it more than there are even parliamentarians in the opposition here in Parliament. In addition, the evening paper revealed that you are increasing party support by 25%. This is an outrageous use of money. Is it not enough for you, the Democrats, the Greens and the Left, that your party support will rise with your election results? By the way, the people gave the centre the smallest mandate in a hundred years, and 18 representatives dropped out of parliament, and thus the party support in the centre collapses. The will of the people will come true — no, but hey, unexpectedly right now a 25% increase in party support is being envisaged. This carving is tailored to the center, and I wonder how you, the Green Left, can agree to this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u165	Mr President! There have now been some rather sharp speeches from the opposition, and I think there is also cause for them. But before I go into this critical section, I would like to say that the proposals in the amending budget for transport and rail projects are very welcome, especially the long-awaited planning of the development of the Helsinki-Tampere main line. It was very important that we get it moving at this stage. I hope that the government will now promote the development of the entire main line as quickly as possible. Of course, it is also important that it also makes use of the EU funding available to it. But then, Mr President, it has to be said that the debate on the consumer protection of the electorate, particularly in relation to this pension policy and the increase in pensions, is sad. It was quite clear in the election speeches that if the Social Democrats get into the government and become the Prime Minister's Party, then, indeed, pensioners, all those who receive a pension below its EUR 1400 will receive an increase of EUR 100 in their pension. And now we see that this increase has already fallen to that half, or EUR 50, and in addition, some 400,000 Finns have fallen completely out of the circle of these increases. It is understandable, of course, that in the multi-party government the parties will not get all their electoral ambitions through, but I personally at least understood this pension promise as a top-notch promise, one which the present Prime Minister Rinne promised quite clearly to the citizens. In that sense, I fear that this decision will contribute to undermining public confidence in politics in the wider sense. The second issue that arises from this is the recruitment of teachers in vocational education and training and the increase in the number of teachers. It is indeed necessary, but I think it is entirely wrong to do so only in the form of a fixed-term decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u166	Mr President! Today, the same employment debate that has been going on for weeks has been resumed in this Chamber, and for all these weeks I have thought that if we were to return to the information we have been studying, to the information we have on employment, to the information we have on what we have in place to promote employment. And, as has been said very well in this Chamber both at the mouth of the opposition and at the mouth of the government, in order to promote the employment of groups that face particular challenges in it, there is no evidence that young people who are excluded, adults who do not have secondary education, namely we in Finland have thousands of adults who do not have secondary education, in a situation where it is very difficult to work in such a country if there is no post-primary education, there is no evidence that, if they are unemployed, they are able to carry out certain tasks in accordance with market demand, it is precisely these difficult groups of people that this government wants to tackle, because now, in a relatively high period of employment, they are the groups of people we have left. They are the groups of people who really need education, support for employment. It is pointless to go to that person who is dependent on comprehensive school and say that when his social security is cut, he will find a job. He first needs the training required for employment, and that is what the government is really investing in for both young people and adults. Compulsory education ensures that every young person will have secondary education in the future. This also includes apprenticeships and other flexible ways of promoting the recognition of young people’s skills. So it is not a question of keeping people on the school bench — at the moment there is very little contact teaching in vocational education — but of giving a degree as a sign that the employer dares to employ such a young person. And a good Parliament, when we have discussed it with employers, is indeed what employers need. This is what large cities in particular suffer from when it comes to labour shortages. Of course, there are unemployed people, but there are no unemployed people who have the skills and ability to find employment in the jobs that open up. These are not only high-skilled jobs, but also jobs for which vocational training is sufficient. We are talking about jobs that have been faced with particular challenges as a result of the historic cuts in vocational education and training in the last government. These cuts have reduced the level of competence of graduates of vocational education, even to such a level that it is becoming difficult to organise traineeships alone, because those students are not dared to practice because they cannot be trusted in their skills. All of this reflects the fact that education is, in fact, the key to increasing employment. I would therefore particularly like to highlight these training efforts when it comes to employment. Of course, there are also researched employment measures. For example, we in Tampere have had an excellent employment model built around the municipalities, which has been able to effectively reduce long-term unemployment, i.e. tackle a problem where we do not have good solutions for thousands of people. After all, this model was threatened during the last term of government by the social and regional reform of that time, but now this government is taking up this and promoting this model, which has been proven to work. In other words, when you look at the government programme, there are a large number of effective employment measures that have been studied. And that is how the effectiveness of the employment measure must be measured, on the basis of the data examined, not on whether or not something is going to happen. The only effective employment measures are not cuts for low incomes. In fact, we have researched data in the direction that cutting social security in the worst case scenario will rather slow down employment: raising walls, raising the threshold, reducing the profitability of working life. This is precisely where these cuts reduce incentives and opportunities for employment and also reduce the mental resources and the time available for people to look for a job, as time goes by, for example, to fill in their income support application and then at the end of Kela to process its application. This is what this government has to tackle in its amending budget, because the social security cuts in the previous government have indeed increased the use of income support so that now we have to put time into it and then the normal Finns put more and more time into it. And that is the worst form of social benefits for those who are incentivised: income support is certainly not easy or profitable to take on small pieces of work, it is not built as a benefit. This too is now being put in place, and social security is being put in place in such a way that it is always worthwhile to accept work. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not an effective employment policy, if we are not even prepared to recognise that this is an employment policy at all, then I would say that the problem lies more in the eye of the viewer than in this government programme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u167	Ladies and gentlemen! In some of my life situations and in some of the tables I have also chaired, but the person who sits on this chair is called President regardless of gender. Mr Laukkanen gives an example of this — not when he is gone. Congressman Pelkonen is gone, too. — Mr Sankelo is present.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u168	Mr President! A few comments on the supplementary budget of the Rinte Government. Firstly, it was quite interesting that, at the beginning of the recent debate, the opposition was accused of populism, especially since no intervention had actually been made. Perhaps there was a trigger finger too sensitive for the representatives of the government parties, namely, in fact, praise for this amending budget came from the opposition's side too, particularly in relation to these transport projects. The highway, for example. 3, the Hämeenkyrö bypass, which has already been mentioned a few times in this connection, is a long-standing project and important from the perspective of Western Finland. It solves many transport problems, and in that respect we must give honest thanks for making progress on this long-standing project. According to the Ministry of Finance, Finland's economic growth is still getting weaker than expected. GDP growth is now projected to rise by 1.6 per cent for this year. This was the case today in the expert consultation of the Committee on Finance. Mr President! On many occasions, the Rinte government has signalled that there is money. The economic figures, however, tell us nothing about the future. In order to promote major transport projects, in order to increase and raise pensions and ensure good care for all Finns, we need to ensure the competitiveness of the export industry through government and parliamentary action. There is no alternative, if we want to achieve economic growth, to achieve the employment objective. It is also necessary to draw a conclusion on these transport projects, and when these proposals have been applauded here, it is worth remembering in the future when the government is considering transport projects, and also the Parliament, that they need to be supplemented precisely from the point of view where the light of the export industry returns. In today's debate, the fact that this list is currently showing a round zero for Ostrobothnia has already been made quite clear. And when we talk about an area which is an important Finnish export area, here I send my greetings — ministers do not seem to be there, but I am sure that the greetings will be made — that, first of all, this item, Hämeenkyro, is definitely a project supporting the export industry and will be seen in many ways also in moving the Finnish economy forward. A couple of other projects that need to be specifically mentioned here: West Finland, Ostrobothnia, highway 19, Seinäjoki-Kahava, traffic volumes over10000 cars per day. Substantial food producing area, metal industry area. Another road north of 8 Vaasa, centrally important, plans ready, must be made forward, as well as the main road 63, Kauhava-Kaustinen, which has already been mentioned here. The situation here is that there is not enough plan in place on this path. It will require a new plan from there in the direction of Ina Kaustinen to reorient this road. But here are a few suggestions for action for the government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u169	Mr President! In the first additional budget of Prime Minister Rinte's Government, significant resources will be allocated to basic infrastructure management and the development of the network, a total of EUR 111 million in appropriations and additional powers. Development funds for road, track and other bus infrastructure are being allocated to different parts of the country. This will contribute to the achievement of the employment objective throughout the country. Mr President! For Varsinais-Suomi and the wider western coast, improving the Turku ring road between Kausela and Kirismäki is important. Resources will be provided for this from the allocation for basic infrastructure management. This is a continuation of the project already under way. The beach line between Helsinki and Turku is also important, with significant bottlenecks. This year, EUR 10 million will be spent on it, and next and next year, EUR 25 million will be spent on it, i.e. a total of EUR 60 million. The aim is to remove local speed limits on the shoreline, which will make passenger traffic more efficient. The project renews the superstructure of the track, repairs bridges and tunnels and improves drying. The completion of the bypass lanes on Highway 8 is very important. It is important for the whole of the West Coast that these projects are carried out at all times. And now the bypasses are completed north of Mynämäki, south of Laitila and on the Satakunta side between Eura River and Luvia. The projects represent a significant improvement in road safety on Kasitie. They allow for a smoother travel speed than is currently the case. This year the allocation and allocation for the 8 highways amount to EUR 30 million. The additional budget shows that the economic direction is still the right one. The increase in tax revenues is estimated at EUR 234 million and net borrowing is reduced by EUR 136 million. Economic development seems to have remained quite good. Mr President! It is very important that the study by the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of the Environment on the business viable operating model of Paimio sanantola has been completed. The state directs EUR 3 million to organise the management and care of the Paimio sanatorium, which is part of Alvar Aalto's breakthrough work. It is planned that the state, the Hospital District of Varsinais-Suomi, the City of Paimio and the Alvar Aalto Foundation will jointly set up a new foundation to manage the sanatorium. There may be a wide variety of uses for these facilities. It can be an activity in the field of health and well-being, but also cultural and well-being tourism. For new business, it is important and very possible to establish international cooperation networks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u170	Mr President! The Government takes a strong hold right from the start, when three weeks have been in place, with its policy to support Finnish business life. Significant investments will be made in basic infrastructure management, repair projects and new development projects. Investments will also be made in the training of the workforce. Additional resources for vocational schools will provide assistance. In particular, it helps students to receive local education, which has become a major problem as a result of previous cuts in education. We need more teachers. Tax revenues higher than estimated by the State will reduce the estimate of the need to raise debt this year. However, it is a fact that we are still in debt with an increase of EUR 1.7 billion this year and that the total amount of debt exceeds EUR 107 billion. Prime Minister Rinte's Government's programme aims to ensure that public finances are balanced by the end of the parliamentary term. That's a tough target, so there's been a reason to put on a new gear. The cutting-edge policy of the previous government contributes to economic balancing by cutting the right targets, but by reducing the small purchasing power of low incomes, they are despoiling their position and creating nausea and, in fact, reducing the incomes of the business community. The earnings of low-income people when they usually go to local shops, grocery stores, pharmacy, doctor and so on. This government aims to restore well-being and increase the conditions for business by means of, among other things, these fairway repairs and projects. It has a job-creating effect and thus a welfare-enhancing effect. Mr President! It is therefore good that the government has decided, in the second amending budget of the year, to make a bold move to improve the transport routes. I am particularly pleased to repair the bottleneck of the Hämeenkyro in Act 3. With a mandate of EUR 64 million, it will finally be possible, after decades of twists, to build an appropriate transport system, an arrangement that operates safely and serves, among other things, the economy. The new road section will better serve the industry's thirty-metre truck transport. Now the traffic circles in the middle of the highway, 20 meters in diameter, have been a big problem. I have wondered how it has been so difficult to obtain support for the construction of this point in previous periods or even decades. I would therefore like to thank Minister Sanna Marin for finally bringing this project to light and getting the road right. The Government also improves many sections of the track, renews safety equipment and improves important targets for business, as the resource allocated to Akaan roundwood terminal shows. There are many of these important bigger and smaller objects in our country and it is good to put them in order during the so-called good weather if they are to be maintained. As the development of commuter trains between Tampere and Nokia progresses, efforts must also be made to build stations and the needs there. One such example is the construction of the second quay of Nokia Railway Station. This should be taken into account already in the next amending budget, if any. Access to commuter trains would be a good thing for people's mobility, and it would be useful to work against climate change when people move on to the track. A lot of people are already moving from Nokia to Tampere. Improving station stops in the centre of Nokia, Nokian Harjunity and Siuro would increase the use of the train fairly. It's worth taking into account in the future. Mr President! To the end: Employment will be at the heart of the future financing of these projects and services. The active cutter that disciplined the unemployed will be removed, but it must be replaced by a motivating and inclusive and employable means of training the unemployed. The employment services of the City Region of Tampere have achieved good results during the two-year trial period thanks to their own coaching system. It has individually been able to support and search for unemployed people suitable for the labour market, to motivate and train, where necessary, according to the needs of the business community, but it has not been possible to continue the employment experiment with good results, because the trial period has run out and the legislation prevents its practical continuation. It would be a good idea to look at it next for the Minister for Labour. The cities have the resources to do that. They should be allowed to do so in a useful way. We now need all the means to promote employment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u171	Mr President! I would like to thank the Government for a very timely and well-balanced draft amending budget to implement the objectives of the Government Programme, i.e. to promote vitality and competence throughout Finland. Substantial efforts to improve transport connections and investments in improving the quality of vocational education and training are very concrete ways of promoting the growth and employment that has been called for many times in this Chamber today. This amending budget can therefore be called a more integrated investment programme in Finland. Mr President! As a representative of 100 municipalities, I welcome the contributions made in the amending budget to the development of Highway 8. The development of Kasittie promotes road safety and the smoother movement of people and improves the operating conditions of companies. After the Mynämäki and Luvia bypass pairs, it is important to continue to develop the highway 8 by completing the different level interface of the Eurajoki crossing area. Nor can the increase in the funding of vocational education and training be underestimated from the point of view of Satakunta. One hundred municipalities and, more generally, the whole of south-west Finland suffer from the availability of highly skilled labour. It has become a clear bottleneck for growth. The additional euro allocated to vocational education and training will therefore become necessary to ensure quality vocational education and training. However, it is quite clear that a number of additional measures are still needed for the availability of labour and for the development of skills, as the Government Programme rightly identifies. I therefore expect the Government to continue to address the competence challenge with determination from now on. Mr President! I would also like to thank the government for the fact that, while the amending budget is making significant investments in new growth areas, it will continue at the same time: Like the Sipilä Government, responsible economic policies are reduced by more than EUR 130 million in debt. As has just been said in the debate, many important projects will still be waiting for their turn after this amending budget. Yes, the world will not be finished during the first month of the reign, and certainly not in all respects even during the entire reign, I venture to guess at this point. Fortunately, however, we have a good government programme which has only just been implemented when taking the first steps with this additional budget. In the future, I will also call on the government to take clear measures to increase vitality and well-being throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u172	Mr President! To begin with, I would say that last season, when we sat there with the SDP in the opposition for the rest of the season, it often came from the ranks of the opposition and the SDP, that listen, good government, to our good ideas about this opposition and that the opposition can be influenced. Today, we in the opposition have started this work, and we have a lot of great ideas, and we hope, of course, that they will be listened to, and that is why I would like you not to start now by knocking your ears out and yelling that populists are out there. That we really do have things and ideas. And if you wonder, for example, what kind of support the opposition parties have received, then we have quite a lot of support, and if I am thinking of the Finns, then the expectations of more than half a million people are behind us and you can listen to them — unless you want to not hear them. This is the first thought of this. Those pensions have been discussed today, and I myself also wondered that Mr Kiljunen, in particular the Social Democrats, has spoken very much about a folded index, but I have not noticed any openings from you. However, that is certainly one of the reasons why he, for example, has been strongly trusted, and he has also made this citizens' initiatives. In particular, I am in contact with a number of pension beneficiaries and they are waiting for a solution to make the earnings-related pension adequate. It is good that the low incomes are affected, it is very important, but we should note that there are a lot of women, especially women, who have worked a long career, for example, in the state administration, as nurses, in the cashier of the store, and they have such a pension of between EUR 1,300 and EUR 1500, and now no one is there to help them, and they were left with nothing at all. Similarly, the Social Democrats in the Prime Minister's Party brought up a great deal of nursery. This is what we brought up together before the parliamentary elections, and I was really glad that now we will probably get it, and it really has happened that there is nothing to hear about it either. I think one very strong election message from the Prime Minister's Party, the Social Democrats, was that things are finally being put right for the elderly, but we really heard a very cold idea today when Prime Minister Rinne said that he has almost doubled the assistants because the government is still alive. Well, of course, I wish everyone could do their job, that's all right, but if we doubled the size of a nurse, let's see how happy people would be in the field when we could even get a few more people there. When it comes to the fact that there are ghost nurses and people at the very limit and are fighting with how they can help, I would like a little more understanding of the Prime Minister's attitude. That sounded really bad. And this 25% increase in party support is a cold ride to listen to. Think about it one more time. The Finns do not need it. We are not after interest groups and money, but we are working in the electoral fields, and if you think, for example, of our party chairman and his election budget, money is not about politics but about heart. Just think about it for a second. However, I personally would like to thank you very much for starting the planning of the Helsinki-Tampere main railway. That's where the passengers are waiting. I often sit on a train, and the trains stand and are late or the locomotive is broken, and there are many commuters who want to live near the capital region, and this is a matter of urgency. Today, I asked Minister Marin when it would be expected that the train would push — as it is now being planned — but I did not see that there was an answer. I would like to have answers to these questions, because they are also genuinely asked and not answered. It usually means that there will be no answer, and the question will then be very embarrassing. On the other hand, one thing I noticed was that although the Hanko- Hyvinkää road, which goes to Mäntsälä and is a very crowded road with a lot of heavy traffic, nothing has been done for years, today the Prime Minister said that the electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track would be there for 2020, and hopefully this means that it will start at that time. I didn't get a full answer to that either. Finally, when there was a representative of the Assembly who said that there was a round zero for employment: it is not quite a round zero. There is one employment-promoting objective which Prime Minister Rinne has already highlighted in the electoral debates, which means that those who have received a negative asylum decision will be able to work here. Good — I sarcasmly say this — that it is indeed your job creation, but I would like to hear how to get ordinary Finns to work first. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u173	Mr President! This first amending budget for Antti Rinte's government, which will be adopted very quickly after the formation of the government and after the work started, must have surprised many representatives that it is possible to act quickly in the government and make an additional budget. The doubters were now in a somewhat questionable light when this happened, and I heard a few comments here that even the fur hat embassies could not move when the money came for the road project. My apologies to the one who was disappointed in this. But to the extent that when we look at the net borrowing of the state, this amending budget will reduce government debt by EUR 136 million, so that is the right direction. For this year's economic growth, different research institutes predict different figures, but the official figure is probably 1.6%. The growth forecast for next year is 1.2%, i.e. a downward trend. That is something we must take into account, of course, and take the measures that the government has to take, so well enough to keep that economic growth as high as possible and to achieve the employment target set. Its 75% employment rate target must be clear in mind all the time, because if people do not work, then a situation arises when the government is forced to invest money in various activities because of its unemployment. These things are so big, you should always be serious about them. In accordance with the Government Programme, the whole of Finland will be taken into account. That is the big line of this first draft budget by the government, and with this amending budget by the government it will also be implemented. Transport projects across Finland are well under way. Of course, I particularly welcome all the road projects and railway projects that come with the supplementary budget in the Finnish peninsula, but I particularly welcome the Iisalmi-Ylivieska railway project, which has been in the pipeline for a long time, for investment money. It is now coming and happening and will create more economic activity for the locality, for that region, which precisely serves employment. My second great joy is, of course, the repair of the railway yard in Joensuu. It must be remembered that this repairing of the Joensuu railway yard is not just the amount of EUR 77 million, it is not just the amount, it is the question that a huge investment pipeline is being developed around it, and these EUR 74 million, which are now being earmarked for it in the amending budget, will trigger an investment avalanche, which is then much larger in financial terms. Work has been going on there all the time by the city, but this railway yard project is not just a project of the City of Joensuu; it is a project of the whole province of North Karelia and it has long been expected. When the government makes decisions, you always have to remember the whole thing. Only one point is used, but it can have a significant employment impact for the region. That is why this long list of road projects, which I am not even going to list, and of railway projects too, is one of those projects that mobilise other investments. This is the right way to do things, not to stare at one figure, but to look at the whole, and when these investments are located across the country, it serves the entire Finnish economy. As a forestry engineer who has made my living on the forestry side, I am delighted that these projects are largely concerned with the lines along which the wood travels. I would almost say that this amending budget has a strong scent of amber, as these lines are used to move Finnish wood to different processing sites and add value to Finnish society and Finnish people. That is why this amending budget is really good that the lines have finally genuinely been able to get to work on the repairs. There's a lot more going on on that side, too. We must remember that during this parliamentary term, we spend some EUR 300 million every year to increase basic track maintenance and basic maintenance money so that the road and track condition is substantially improved. It is worth remembering that this much-speaked climate change has treated both the road network and the rail network quite harshly. After all, the same winter season can be three, four times a good spring, and then there will be another hard frost and heavy snowfall. It consumes both road surfaces and tracks enormously. That is why the renovation of the railways and roads is one big thing for this parliamentary term, and that is how new employment will be created in this country. Then, when we manage forests and move wood to different places, we also manage this climate policy sensibly as we try to transport heavy goods vehicles as much as possible on railway tracks, i.e. iron wheels. The more heavy traffic we carry, the heavy goods on the tracks, the more the road network will be saved. Mr President! I welcome the content of this first amending budget by the government and, above all, I welcome the lives of those people whose lives this rapid amending budget has a very positive impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u174	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Much has been said about employment. The employment rate is indeed about 72.4%, and we have the objective of raising it to 75. This government programme, such as these appropriations for the amending budget, is a step in the right direction in this respect too. In particular, I would like to highlight the investment in education and training that is now being made in vocational schools. This is aptly stated in the Government Programme — and this is certainly good to remember that it is not forgotten in the infra-debate, which is also important in itself — that ‘the knowledge and technological development of the most important factor in improving productivity in economies such as Finland’. This is also the case for direct lending:‘Climate change has an impact Improving competitiveness for Finnish companies and their employees is essential, taking into account the training and skills of employees, product development and investment, as well as employment-oriented services and encouraging entrepreneurship.” There has often been reference to business life, the economy, perhaps referred to industry, but it is good to remember that in developed countries such as Finland, the structure of the economy relies particularly on services and the growth of exports of business services. On the other hand, the natural resource economy is easy to replace, and simple industry, if costs go down somewhere else, moves easily, and it happens that local people often have to settle for crumbs. That is why it is good to bear in mind that we really need investment in education and in raising its educational level. Here, on page 161 of the Government Programme, it says: ‘According to international comparisons, Finland mentions countries leading to primary education in the world,but differences, differences in learning and exclusion as phenomena threaten the success of Finnish education. Those born in the 1970s are becoming the highest-educated age group in Finland. Our education has not been kept sufficiently involved in the internationalisation of a globalised world.” And indeed, not all the economy travels by road or even by rail. We export ict services and it is a very fast growing part of our economic structure. Not all sectors of industry are lobbying us politicians, because they do not exist yet, and if we are talking about the future and future investment, it is very important to enable the knowledge and training we can use to create the future industries. Nor is it that a developed economy such as Finland is dependent on a particular sector of activity. The structure of the economy is constantly changing, and we need to be on the edge of time so that we can enable the knowledge base from which these new innovations emerge. Although the word innovation is a worn-out term in itself, it has been rather little present in these discussions. I think Minister Lintila mentioned it anyway. I am glad that we are moving people more and more on the tracks. These are very good investments in this respect. Investments in education and training are welcome. But it is borne in mind that any investment involving state money should have adequate impact assessments. We still need more information between these projects and in the middle of how they benefit our society. Of course, we must also be fair and consider that if there has been more investment in some areas in the past and there are, for example, no rail projects in another area, then this too must be taken into account. The preparation of some projects may have already taken place during the last term of government on the basis of the fact that some companies have been working hard on them. At that time, we will have to keep a very close eye on normal caution and impact assessments, because we in this Parliament must also have a certain critical and knowledge-based decision-making process in which each project is assessed separately. It is therefore good to hear that Mr Marin called for this in his own speech. Of course, although everyone must have such favorite projects, somehow we must also compare them with each other. It is a good idea to start from this, but better impact assessments will be carried out, and it will be remembered that the knowledge of the future will also come from areas of activity that we do not even know exist and that Finland will once again be the leading country in education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u175	Mr President! Although we are only dealing with an amending budget after a three-week period of government, I am extremely pleased that the government has taken it upon itself to shift transport priorities towards a sustainable, low-emission transport system. The stakes in the tracks are the right direction to combat climate change and ensure the vitality of long distances in Finland. The opposition reported that the majority of people and industrial products travel on rubber wheels and concern was expressed about supporting motor vehicles. However, this is precisely the point for which change is needed. Support must be transferred to environmentally friendly modes of transport and the potential already exists on our network, and this has been seized by the government. Finland has the second largest number of passenger cars in Europe compared to the population, and the passenger transport system in Finland is based on passenger cars. When we know the cost of driving for the user, we should be very concerned about how the low-income, unemployed and elderly, let alone the incapacitated, can travel and live a high-quality life. Transport accounts for about one fifth of Finland’s emissions, of which 90 per cent consists of road transport. Finland’s goal is to be carbon neutral in 2035, so investments in the tracks have for good reason been seen as urgent investments. Transferring transport from private car to rail also reduces noise pollution, improves air quality and encourages everyday activity. So it also has health effects. Government investment in public transport and rail makes it possible for more and more people to travel by public transport. The current network already has a huge potential that should be exploited by speeding up, improving and increasing capacity. By the main track alone, from Helsinki to Tornio, 60 per cent of Finland's population and jobs already exist. Train travel also has a high growth potential for longer journeys. This was seen especially in the northern parts of the main track a couple of years ago, when, thanks to basic improvements and VR ticket pricing reform, these combined increased passenger volumes by almost 50 per cent over one year between Oulu and Helsinki. In a country with long distances, it is critical to understand the importance of tracks for the economy, employment and vitality. In addition to goods, knowledge runs along the tracks, as access to skilled workers is one of the greatest challenges for employment growth. Tracks and investments in vocational education and training are therefore a good stimulus for increasing employment. In addition to railways, the shift in traffic takes place by investing in walking and cycling and other public transport, and significant investments in these have already been planned in the Government Programme. Indeed, it is good to continue towards sustainable Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u176	Mr President! As an Eastern Finn, I thank the government for that improvement of the Joensuu railway yard, although more money is still needed for this. The additional contributions to the road are good. The basic route is in terrible shape, especially for us in Eastern Finland, so more investments will be needed in the future. Mr President! If the government had invested less in its own assistant guard and in the jobs of good brothers and sisters, i.e. many fallen MPs, there would have been more money on the basic road route I mentioned, for example. Mr President! I would have liked you, Mr Government, to have given the municipalities more money so that they could hire more nurses to help those in need. You already have an assistantship — it is 4.3 — but for the elderly who need help it is not even 0.7. The nurses are drowning under the burden of work, but you did not pay any attention to that in this amending budget, even though their need is very great. Mr President! The government plans to increase party support by 25%, i.e. by EUR 7 million. Then what is behind this? The centre lost 2.6 million in party support and now, with this increase in party support, it gets roughly half of it back. It is clear that with this withdrawal the government wants to support the biggest loser in the election, the centre. The centre that the people voted out of power, in which they now hang with their claws and milk for themselves more money. Fortunately, such greedy taking home has not been overlooked by the people and will not be missed. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u177	Mr President! As a representative of the main opposition party, it is necessary to praise this amending budget through transport. I'm glad we're making money. The only thing that lost this feeling after several speeches was the fact that Mr Lindtman made his speeches with a flying departure here. You can't ride a moped up here so much, because the situation is that any one of us parties can give money, state money, to these projects, and then boast of how to get employment and other things out of the way. So I'm really glad this money's coming, but maybe a little lower profile could be drawn here. But I don't know if it's even worse for the assembly to start calling for a crash right away. However, since the gentlemen and the ladies have been in the government in previous years and these same projects could have been put in motion several times, somehow it seems quite incredible now that after three weeks we are in the process of exorcising that the crash should already be in the country. Of course, this will bring more work to Finland, but of course the problem in many of Finland is that there is a great shortage of employees and especially of skilled workers, because hiring the unskilled is a low risk. I now have little doubt that there will be a hunch that these projects will now cost a little more than they would have paid in previous years, for example, and it is precisely because they will have to pay for the work that is now being done on the roads and trains, more than before. And, of course, the investment in vocational school does not come very quickly because it takes two or three years. That drug would only be in the future. You know, investing in professional school is a really big deal. I really like it. I myself talked about it on my own electoral grounds, that money must be found for it and that is something that needs to be put right. The only unfortunate thing, of course, was that it was made compulsory, which does not help companies much in terms of employment. I would also like to see a change in the Siltar drum policy, i.e. not to continue this bridge drum policy in the same way, because one of the worst roads in Finland, Highway 15, can be found there between Kouvola and the Eagle, which beats all the roads in the speeches here, when you look at the problem on the road as a whole. I can tell you that we are in quite different problems on Highway 15, among other things, driving on the eight road in a combination of vehicles. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u178	Madam Speaker! This amending budget shows a very responsible centre handprint. The investments proposed are well-founded and, above all, long-needed. Above all, they are defending a balanced regional policy throughout the country, which is too often forgotten in this Chamber. The strengthening of the funding of vocational education and training in particular deserves a great deal of praise. However, it must be recognised that funding is still not sufficient, and it is precisely secondary vocational education and training resources that should be further strengthened. Madam President! It is important that the Government implements the development of the main line with its expansions, as recorded in the Government Programme. This means that the planning of the double track between Tampere and Jyväskylä is also possible through adequate funding. The main track with its expansions is not just the development of the Helsinki-Tampere gap. Currently, the development of rail transport in central Finland has been left out of the rest of the country. It is also justified to develop cross-border traffic for the benefit of the whole country. As the seventh largest city in Finland, Jyväskylä cannot remain an eternal plan for the future for rail connections. The need for a double track is supported both by the disruption of passenger traffic, which is already a handicap to growth, and by the increased transportation of goods from Central Finland to our ports. If we want to take care of the whole country, we must enable growth everywhere. It is clear that there is no room for growth if we do not support the conditions for creating a new one. We have also proved through many speeches that there is a great need for transport investment in this country. It is honest to admit that not everything will be found with government money. For this reason, it is important that new forms of financing are made possible so that every province in this country can be part of good transport connections and thus part of growth. Madam President! The international economic cycle can also cause gray clouds over Finland. This means that the government must be proactive in its economic policy, but also reactive. We are not an island, we are part of the international economy. Investments that create growth throughout the country are extremely important. At the same time, we must ensure that our country remains in better shape for our children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u179	Madam President! It was quite gratifying to hear from the opposition during the debatation of dinner about the government's transport projects. It is precisely that constructive cooperation. However, a few suspicious comments were related to the employment impact of the projects. To this I can answer that transport projects, if they are likely to create a basis for new jobs. The creation of jobs depends largely on small and medium-sized enterprises. A large number of SMEs are also linked to transport projects: there are construction companies, there are suppliers, there are many types of companies, which will enable us to complete these magnificent projects. We had a joint meeting yesterday in the province of North Karelia between entrepreneurs and representatives of the region. There were representatives of both the opposition and the government. We talked a lot about the situation of entrepreneurs, the challenges faced by entrepreneurs and also the opportunities offered by entrepreneurs. We also discussed a lot about the Government Programme and how it will affect the future of entrepreneurs. We received praise from the business association for both the government programme and the amending budget. Above all, the county was pleased with the railway yard project that came to Joensuu. The railway projects of Iisalme have also brought joy, and the entire constituency of Savo-Karjala has welcomed this amending budget with joy. I myself know, 25 years as an entrepreneur, that entrepreneurship is also a matter of faith. As an entrepreneur, you must have faith that the future holds and that business can be built on a sustainable basis. One of the key factors in that belief is the belief in the future of the whole region and its decision-makers, that investment in the province is worthwhile and that it is good to work from there on the world market. Exports can't be pulled without routes. At least as important as the region's belief in its own success is the belief of decision-makers at national level in the whole of Finland. I am happy to say that this government programme believes in both regions and regions. There were even confusing comments in this Chamber that cities have been forgotten in this program. I can say that they are not: this is only an amending budget. These transport projects from all over Finland have an incredibly large leverage effect. During construction, they employ companies, they give faith to investors, they give faith to financiers, and they also improve the accessibility of the area. It is good for this government to continue with this amending budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u180	Madam President! With this first amending budget, the Government is already determined to reduce the climate emissions of transport by investing in rail transport. This package will build more smoothly rail connections, reduce rail traffic disruptions, accelerate travel and reduce transport costs. The fight against climate change requires major changes in transport and the way we move. This will not happen in the moment, but this amending budget will take important steps in the right direction. There are many railway projects on the list that have been long awaited. It is important that they be put on the move now. It has also been a good thing to hear that the opposition has also praised them widely. I would like to highlight two projects concerning the Western Uusimaa: upgrading the Helsinki-Turku railway line and electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää railway section. It is essential that we improve the condition of existing lines and thus ensure that trains run on time and people’s business and business trips are smooth. Only efficient and sufficiently dense rail transport is a genuine alternative for your own car. It is also worth taking full advantage of the potential of the current railway tracks and station regions, as Mr Piko explained well earlier in his speech. EUR 60 million will be allocated in the amending budget to improve the railway section between Helsinki and Turku. The Hanko- Hyvinkää railway section is the only un electrified section of Southern Finland, and freight traffic from the port of Hanko is mainly carried out by trucks through the city. The electrification of the track will also serve passenger traffic between Hanko and Karjaa. The price tag for the project will be EUR 62 million and will be launched next year. Madam President! Nine railway projects included in the amending budget are a good start. High-speed rail projects to the west, east and north will also be launched, as recorded in the Government Programme. There has been a lot of talk about the Espoo city track today, and that is a good thing. It is a key project for the development of railway traffic in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and Uusimaa and a prerequisite for the development of both the Turku hour train and the shoreline. It is important that there is also broad support for the opposition to speed up all these major railway projects. I would like to remind you that significant records were made in the Government Programme to promote the sustainable urban structure of urban areas through the MAL plans. The MAL agreements are an instrument for building carbon-neutral urban areas, increasing housing production and increasing the share of sustainable mobility. MAL negotiations are currently under way and it is important to include key rail investments in urban areas in good cooperation with cities. Madam President! Finally, it is extremely important that the Government Programme has allocated an increase of EUR 20 million in teacher resources for vocational education and training. Education is an investment in the future, and vocational education and training is the most acute need after the last government cuts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u181	Madam President! The Rinte government has changed the line from cutting to the path of growth, and it is a fine leap overall. These employment effects of transport investments have been strongly criticised on the opposition side, but when you take on indirect and derivative effects, if 7,000 to 8,000 are the impact of construction, then it can be explained without concern by two, which is a positive thing and a good start in this economic situation too. Clearly, there is also a change in regional policy. Mr Vestman, who is not here at the moment, was concerned about how Uusimaa manages these investments. When I was digging through the statistics from 2004 to 2019, there has been 2.4 billion in traffic infrastructure money for New Zealand. Now I understand what Ostrobothnia has said, which means that 30 million have come to North Karelia at the same time — 35 million in North Karelia and 40 million in Kainuu.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u184	Madam President! As far as the additional budget is concerned, I will return to its estimated revenue and will draw attention there to the EUR 57 million reduction in the amount of car tax, which is due to the fact that the registration rate for new cars is going to be lower than expected. One reason for this is the increase in imports of second-hand cars in Finland, which has already been at a very high level, at the level of more than 40,000 vehicles. In fact, Mr Juvonen has made a worthy speech on this point, and it is good to continue to do so. This year, the estimate is somewhere between 55,000 and 60,000 vehicles. This is essential in the sense that there will be a lot of debate in this Chamber about transport emissions and the fact that our car fleet is very old on a European scale. It is an intolerable situation if we are permanently draining so much tax revenue out of the country's borders, because in practice VAT revenue is not received at all in these situations. A lot of large-engined vehicles are being imported to Finland and, at the same time, we are collecting a car tax, which has then slowed down the fact that our car fleet has not been renewed in the way it should have been renewed. I hope that the government will also give serious consideration to this issue when it goes through the whole package of transport taxation. After all, it is now a report in the Government Programme on how it makes sense to move on from this, because if this development continues, we will see that there will be less tax revenue in the common fund. Our car fleet does not regenerate, but rather Finland becomes this kind of used car cemetery in Europe, and it can then consider how sensible this tax system of ours has been overall. In other words, I would like to take a look at the sensible tax policy of the last government, which was also done with regard to car tax, and we should start to think seriously again about how to support the renewal of the car fleet in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u185	Madam President! This whole amending budget is a good and balanced one. However, I would like to raise a few points here separately and mainly focus on this transport network. It is good that the amending budget is now quickly giving a boost to the transport investments needed in the whole country, but especially in areas where Finnish growth is also being made. Transport investment must not, can we say now, be splattered here with regional policy objectives alone, but, as has been proven here on both the government and the opposition side, it should be given to those regions where those investments are the best for growth. In the same context, I welcome this introduction of the MAL agreement system for urban areas. Now there is a more effective way to agree between the state and the municipalities on the measures that municipalities can take for their part, the state can do its part and, above all, the municipalities and the state together. The desirable part of the amending budget, which has also been praised here by the government and the opposition, relates to this recruitment of vocational training teachers. We need more pairs of hands in vocational education and training there, of course, for many other tasks, but I, too, see the increase in the level of competence as an extremely important target and also as an important target for Finnish growth, and it is precisely on the vocational education and training side that we have been suffering from a shortage of teachers for years. Then I would also like to say to this good part of Mrs Meren's speech in relation to the role of the opposition in Parliament that the role of the opposition is important. The opposition may raise the gaps in the government's proposal and, on the one hand, support – as here today – the proposals on which the opposition feels the same way as the government. With the experience of last season, I can at least say for myself that the country can also be served by the opposition, and with the experience of the previous period that it is not always easy as a representative of the government party.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u186	Madam President! Mr Huttunen said in that regard about the employment of these bus projects that the opposition is in the vantage point trying to downplay them in terms of employment. Well, I have to tell you now that we're not beinglittled here, but if we're going to go out with society's money to employ the people, then it shouldn't be so much the government's going to have to brag about it, because if we can afford to give it an aphrodisiac, then why don't we just double that money? If it's such a great deal that we're building an infra for 600 million, then why don't we just take 1.2 billion? In other words, there has been quite a lot of talk about how much money is being put into that job because of its employment. Representative Sarkomaa threw that more money has come to us in the direction of Uusimaa and Helsinki for these all-looking bus projects. Well, I have to tell Mr Sarkomaa that, of course, more money will be coming in here because you've been all over this place and there are so many people here that you need to build them. To be honest, it must be said that we now see, fortunately, the situation that even the provinces are getting theirs, not just the inside of Ring 3. Of course, I would like to talk a lot about the car tax business — unfortunately, the previous speaker just left. Indeed, in the car tax business, it is quite easy to go to the mine to get rid of that car tax, saying that nothing has changed. The only thing is that our rich people will then drive their Rolls-Royces half-free compared to what they are driving now, because even now the share of the basic car car tax is so nonexistent that buying any new car is no longer dependent on the amount of Finnish car tax. But the amount of car tax, which comes from car taxes, is in any case taken from traffic in some way, which means that the 500-euro Mondeo driver will have to pay for that money-rich Rolls-Royce purchase, because that money will in any case be taken from traffic. I hope that the government actually realises that it is not worth going to these particular investments. For example, the previous government carried out two pieces of scrapping premium campaigns, which were completely absurd for society: to give car dealers direct money.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u187	Madam President! The debate on this amending budget has focused mainly on transport infrastructure projects, and that is a good thing. After all, this amending budget is precisely a transport route-oriented one, and these improvements are needed, but I would also like to raise this additional allocation of EUR 20 million for the recruitment of teachers in vocational education and training. It is really necessary and it has been hoped for. But as far as these transport corridor projects are concerned, it is good that the government is now making an extraordinary proposal for an amending budget. We couldn't do this last season. It was also widely hoped in this Parliament's big House that these big investments could have been made last season, but the Ministry of Finance was not ready for this big investment. However, I have to say that, last season, there was an exceptional amount of EUR 1 billion invested in basic infrastructure management, and that was a good thing. Now this government continues to do so. In addition to this amending budget, it is worth noting that there is an additional EUR 300 million per year for the whole period, for the whole of this government term, for the parliamentary term, and that appropriation is really needed. This amending budget will now also be able to start new, relatively large projects all over Finland, and they are very important and serve the industry and the export industry in particular. In addition to railway and road projects, there are also ports: the port of Oulu, which is a big, important project, can now be moved forward. I personally hope that in future, in the course of the actual budget readings, then in the autumn, we will be able to bring big projects to other parts of Finland, the whole of Finland, which are known to have many needs. I myself come from a region in South-East Finland where there are also hopes that export-related projects and road safety-related projects will be made available. That's what we need. This is the representative. The valley brought up Highway 15, which is a very important project. There is the site of the Savitaipaleen Myttiönmäki on Highway 13, which has been wanted for years and years and years all along, and I hope that this project will also be carried forward and implemented. There's way too many big accidents going on there. But in this amending budget, I think it is exceptionally good that so many transport infrastructure projects are being mobilised. They serve all of us, road safety above all,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u188	Madam President! Projects: Thank you to the Government for your promptness, but in all respects the Government has not assured the Government in its Government Programme and in today's second amending budget for 2019 as to whether the funding is reliable, sound. Finland is at least still living in a time of economic growth, and organisations are on average doing much better than they did some years ago. Would this not be the last time to pay attention to growth and optimism? One of Finland’s most famous leaders, Pauli Juuti, came across the phenomenon of ‘bad management as a troubled problem for working communities’ when collecting material for his last work. He was surprised to notice the material he received, 31 leadership stories collected from different organisations, how rather than good leadership the material contained mainly poor leadership. The extent of the phenomenon in the material was surprising. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy asks in its publication ‘The future of Finnish management ‘for 2018:‘Finnish leadership,is there any further?’. Answer: at least not in the national sense. ‘Yes, the Finnish leadership is ‘spoon boy management’. Let's do the things we're supposed to do, and let's do it with a good attitude. — That is what Thomas Syrjänen is doing in this survey. From the Nordic countries, Sweden spends more time building trust. Swedish leadership includes the bigness and internationality of thinking, the intra-work community dialogue is better than in Finland, and dialogue creates a feeling of shared socialism, i.e. ‘medarbetarskap’. Mr President! Unfortunately, Finland is at the forefront of public expenditure in relation to GDP in the EU. The budgetary balance is also still negative in our country: it is 0.8% less than GDP. More than half of the operating costs of municipalities are social welfare and health care. This means a bill of more than EUR 20 billion that taxpayers pay each year at a billion level. On the private side, it is not possible simply to cut costs, transfer the problem to someone else and hide the problem under the table. It's going to be bad. Unfortunately, this is often the case with the state and the municipalities. The right to tax has created an opportunity to do so. Lack of responsibility has allowed bad decisions to be taken. We've always found money, and taxpayers pay. From the point of view of financial adequacy, our main problem is not the ageing population, it is not the marginalised young people, it is not the poor employment situation or wage developments. Our main problem is that service production is not managed in a sufficiently competent way and is not managed in an efficient way either. Leadership is a skill: you have to know how to lead. If your activity is ineffective and the toolbox is only about saving, it is unfortunately often leading to a reduction in the number of employees. This is not how genuine leadership and genuine leadership work. We need to know how to operate in the network and see the nodes of the network and dismantle the completely unnecessary costs they entail. This, on the other hand, will lead to a better service for customers and, at the same time, a more rational use of taxpayers' money. Developments in central government debt, especially in municipalities, need to be reversed. The road to increasing taxes and charges is now almost complete. As far as demographics are concerned, there is already a situation in Finland that we are one of the oldest peoples in the world, and there is no prospect of a change in the statistics on population renewal. In Finland, fewer than 60,000 children are born each year, which is not sufficient for population renewal. It must be possible to organise care for the elderly in a high-quality and cost-effective way. Urbanisation is accelerating and few growth centres are struggling with the increase in the demand for services. With regard to the emptying regions, we will consider how to provide services to the declining population of the region, even in some way in a sustainable way. The question is: how will the public sector continue to be a driver of society's success and a driver of future growth in its role — or is it still possible? The public sector is currently facing a major management challenge in our country. Public sector leaders and managers are directing major reforms, where perhaps tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of employees are changing employers in social change, and this change must be made quickly. The importance of leadership and supervisory work is thus emphasised at an accelerating pace. All of this requires the readiness to increase the ability and personal competence of management and supervisory work. These can be developed by means of new-time management and training. Mr President! These are issues that the new government must now intervene with a hard grip and invest in. More effort is now needed to develop leadership and managerial skills. I know that if we are able to solve this problem in a controlled way, we will be making billions of savings in some time period. At the same time, skilled labour will be released for new tasks in this rapidly changing world. We will get Finland back, and Finland will also rise again. From the Government Programme you have forgotten this important part of the Finnish future and well-being. You have not taken that into account in the amending budget either, but I hope that, in the autumn, when you start building the budget for the coming year, you will be investing in this problem, which concerns us all and, above all, is shaking our economy. The efficiency of our economy and the efficiency of services — here you have economic and employment policy. Our national competitiveness is now up to you, Mr Government, and the good leaders in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u189	Mr President! Today we are discussing an amending budget here, and that is the end of the debate. These are the good things that were brought up there. I think there are a lot of good things in this amending budget, and as the former Minister for Transport, I am talking about the fact that transport projects are precisely those that bring about employment quite quickly. There will, of course, be limits to this too, but I definitely believe that, if we have to get jobs quickly, it will be transport projects. Now, however, I would like to remind you that during the last period we agreed that we would make such a plan of transport and that all the parties and all the groups in this House agreed in the parliamentary group that such a plan of organisation would be made. That is why I would say that it should be looked at, because yes, we must keep the whole country's transport routes in order, if we are also thinking of basics. Of course, we always have to look at the cost-benefit index, and it has its own formula. It takes into account safety, travel time, business needs, people's well-being and mobility. In other words, these are also things that we must look at in the transport organisation plan, which was otherwise decided in the working group which I myself myself myself was the minister at the time. Then I have to say to Mr Laakso, who here criticises the scrapping premium, that I could give you all a one-on-one exercise about what the meaning of the scrapping premium has been in Finland. In fact, it has made the car fleet safer, it has caused climate effects and it has brought about the exchange of older cars. It has been considered to be a very good solution at the time, even in the light of the studies. It's just too bad it hasn't been able to go on. I recommend that its benefits be assessed. But then, at the end of the day, the only thing I really strongly criticise in this amending budget is these matters of pay for teachers. As a former teacher, I would say that, unfortunately, teachers cannot be hired on a one-off basis with one-off money in a situation like this when we have a huge shortage of teachers in secondary education. Unfortunately, there was a lot of cutting last season. It was agreed that this would be done. It was not the invention of any individual party, but the economic situation in Finland was weak. It was then necessary to reduce the number of teachers in vocational education and training. Now it has to be raised, it is quite the right principle, but unfortunately it cannot be lifted in any one-off way when we need those teachers there for a longer time. But thanks to the government for these investments in transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u190	Madam President! As Mr Risikko mentioned well above, the transport network and the basic routes are very important for employment. I totally agree, and I'm sure we all do. They provide jobs and thus give our companies opportunities. However, according to a study carried out in January, we have a neighbouring country, Sweden, where some 9.6 billion of the traffic collected in the form of taxes and charges is returned to basic bus maintenance and transport investment, compared with around 53% of the 8 billion in Finland. I would see that it would have been good for the government and, of course, for the whole Parliament to go together decades ago to look at the means of achieving a little of that western neighbour, because this is one of the bogeymen in the opinion of the public, that where the money goes, because the state collects 8 billion dollars from the various car charges and earmarks 19% of it to where it is collected, i.e. about 80% from somewhere else. I would leave the idea of whether it might make sense to think that if we still raise these funds with the title that they are for road maintenance, it would be used in full or at least half of it for that purpose. I believe that if something were to be such a good place to look at it, so that we could together — the whole Parliament — consider the priorities to which taxes will be applied in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u191	Madam President! For that tax job, I have just given a hint, and it is true what Mr Risikko said about those statistics, as has been put forward by the central bodies of the car industry. They come to me in an e-mail with an all-time pass. I can see well — if you just stare at them and read them, they look just like that — that money has come and the car fleet has been renewed. I'm in the business myself, 2,000 scrap trucks every year are accepted or collected by our company. Our company has benefited financially from this scrapping premium, but despite the fact that we see it there in the field, who brings it and how it works, I have only looked with horror at how the car lobbyers have talked around the then minister to go along with this nonsense. I will be available a lot in this area in the future, and I would like to have my own incompetence prep, if that is necessary, that is to say, bilateral or triangular, or whatever I am prepared to go. I would like to bring out my own views and show you the gäps that are found in the statistics made by the Central Automobile Association. — That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u192	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 1/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u193	Madam President! The Government's proposal concerns the amendment of the entry into force of the new Firearms Act and is of a rather technical nature. The amendment to the Firearms Act was approved by the previous Parliament at the end of the 2018 parliament. The amendment concerns the national implementation of the EU Directive. The report before us is the first of the new Administrative Committee. This provision was due to enter into force on 15 May. 1 July, but it is proposed to amend the entry into force rule so that it will enter into force seven and a half months later, i.e. 1 March 2020 — this is because the electronic system is not on schedule, as has already been known. The entry into force of these provisions is necessarily tied to the completion and implementation of the reform of the police weapons information system. The Government's proposal proposes that, when the information system enabling the application of electronic services is not available, identification data should be provided at the police station by physically dealing and presenting the firearm, the effective aircraft or part of the weapon to which the notification relates, i.e. in this case 29. Until 1 February 2020. The Administrative Committee considers that the technical amendments to the entry into force provision proposed by the Government proposal are necessary. However, on the basis of the expert opinions received by the committee, there is no certainty that the system will be completed on this date either. The committee would also like to draw attention to the fact that the resources of the licensing administration of the police are limited in relation to the tasks required for the reform of the arms regime. The committee's report also highlights the illogical nature of the provision expressed in the expert consultation on the demonstration of the continuation of a hobby. The obligation referred to in the Act does not apply to a licence for arms which is extended pursuant to paragraph 11 of the entry into force provision, and therefore the obligation to demonstrate the continuation of a hobby would in practice be waived for all authorisations of self-loading pistols if the permits were granted by 12 June 2017 at the latest. According to the committee, this was not the intention of the law. The Administrative Committee proposes to amend paragraph 11 of the transitional provision, which is not included in the government proposal, so that the obligation to demonstrate the continuation of the hobby remains with regard to pistols. Madam President! The Administrative Committee therefore considers that a proposal from the Government is necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of a legislative proposal as amended.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u194	Madam President! I think that the government's proposal to correct the Firearms Act and this particular technical pattern is all right, but I cannot fail to say a few words about the firearms law created by the previous government, which imposes additional restrictions on sportsmen, gun enthusiasts and gun collectors — law-abiding citizens. It increases bureaucracy and costs and has no effect on terrorists or criminals who use illegal weapons. I must remind you that this is what we are getting from the European Union. This is the harmful policy. The reform of the Firearms Act is based on a directive which, in my opinion, certainly does not make any sense to much of the enthusiasts. The reform will punish decent citizens for the actions of jihadist terrorists. Well, it has been positive to hear that the centre, I do not remember the representative now, has mentioned on a few occasions that the firearms law is no longer being blackmailed. That is a great thing to hear, and I hope not, because the centre was blackmailing it last season when it approved the European distortions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-25-ps-21.u195	Madam President! The government's proposal to amend the entry into force of the Firearms Act is in itself justified, as has been pointed out. But here too, like Mr Peltokangas, I would like to highlight the errors and rather delusional nature of the underlying reform of the firearms law. The legal reform is indeed directed at law - abiding sports shooters and gun collectors. It increases both costs and bureaucracy and undermines the protection of property. The role of semi-automatic weapons used in sports shooting in crime or terrorism is non-existent, so the reform of the law does not contribute to the objectives that justify it. The legislative reform is based on a revision of the Directive adopted in 2016, characterised by ideological anti- armaments, lack of impact assessments and disregard of expert opinions. The reform of the directive was justified by numerous Islamic terrorist attacks, which, however, used illegal military weapons. The real causes of Islamic terrorism are not wanted or dared to be tackled, but are targeted at legal weapons owners who are not a security problem.
