ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u1	Matias Mäkynen, an analyst from Vaasa, who, as a deputy in the constituency of Vaasa, has been replaced by Jutta Urpinen, who has been deputized, has today presented the President with his mandate and has taken office. — — — — I would ask Mr Matias Mäky to take his place in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u2	It is indicated that the President of the Republic has received the resignation request of Prime Minister Antti Rinteen on 3 December 2019 and has asked the Government to continue as Minister of Delivery until the new Government has been appointed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u3	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u4	Mr President! This is a Government proposal to Parliament on security of supply between the governments of Finland, Norway and Sweden. A State Treaty between Finland, Sweden and Norway on security of defence supply between countries has been sent for ratification by the Parliament. The contract is a security of supply sub-assembly in one part [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The attached contract on security of supply was signed between the three Nordic countries in Visby in April 2019. For the three Nordic countries, the agreement renews previous security of supply clauses from the previous State Treaty of 2001. Denmark has previously withdrawn from the preparation, but has expressed its desire to join in later.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u9	Mr President! Mr Kaikkonen, Minister of Defence, who presented the matter! This is something that has, in fact, been in preparation between the Nordic countries for a very long time. This started in 2011 by Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. It was then that the reform of the 2001 agreement began, as mentioned above. The aim is therefore to make the most of the possibilities for cooperation in the field of armaments and to avoid unnecessary duplication of activities. The contractual arrangement is therefore the framework for cooperation, as Mr Kaikkonen said earlier. The Nordic proposal on security of supply in the field of defence is now coming before Parliament, and this is something that I am sure Parliament will have to deal with quickly even after today's events. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the comments made by the PIA, the Finnish Federation of Defence and Aviation Industries, in the preparation of this matter. They have drawn attention to the fact that industrial implementation arrangements would be prepared in cooperation with the Nordic industrial associations, as well as to the need to harmonise export licensing policy if production is concentrated. This is, of course, an issue which has now been raised in the debate, namely that we have a somewhat different export authorisation policy between the Nordic countries, but more broadly within the EU. It would be extremely important in future for us to pursue a common, as uniform a European export authorisation policy as possible. In fact, the recording of the government programme of Prime Minister Rinte, who has left today’s resignation, has caused some confusion and is therefore under the heading ‘Finlandconstructs peace’, which has been written in some new way about the more recent activities and operating environment and operating practices that we have had in the export of arms. ♪ Now that the Prime Minister ♪ Rinne has lost the majority of Parliament's trust and today has asked for a divorce for herself, but also for the government as a whole, it is important that the new government clarify its export licensing policy and make it predictable. I would like to ask Mr Kaikkonen: have you noticed such a change in the export licensing policy and its reading, and in particular in the entries concerning this long period of time that has been in the export permits of the Finnish defence industry? Mr President! I hope that these entities will also be examined when a new government is formed in Finland after the loss of parliamentary trust in Rinte.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u10	Mr President! It is important for the centre that our foreign and security policy is constructive, long-term and that it is carried out in international cooperation. It must be seen over the electoral and governmental periods. Long-term international work is at stake in this government proposal to reform the 2001 treaty. The proposal states that the agreement contributes to security of supply in the defence sector between Finland, Sweden and Norway and is well suited to promoting Nordic defence cooperation. The aim is to make the most of the possibilities for cooperation in the field of armaments and to avoid unnecessary duplication of activities. Mr President! Another important aspect of this agreement is that it is, according to the proposal, positive for our industry, because clear security of supply arrangements enable more efficient industrial activities and Nordic companies to operate. Such Nordic cooperation is important and valuable. The Government's proposal is based on the Government's 2012 Security and Defence Policy Report, according to which Nordic foreign, security and defence policy cooperation will be intensified. Mr President! It is therefore a pleasure to say a few words on the basis of our foreign and security policy and the defence of our country. It has been and will always be a matter of attitude, values and will to safeguard our country's independence. It is important that we cherish the will to defend the country and teach and raise our children, our young people — including those in that gallery today — to value the defence and to act constructively for the independence of our country. As a small nation, we cannot survive unless we unitedly and collectively want to hold on to credible national defence and try to manage matters in such a way that we respect and value every person, including someone who thinks differently. This includes constructive, long-term and factual cooperation with foreign powers. Mr President! Our credible national defence is based on general military duty and a well-trained reserve. That is why it is particularly valuable and wonderful that our country has long-term desire to provide for the training and refresher exercises of the reserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u11	Mr President! Confident national defence is the surest guarantee that we will have good years of peace in the future. Security of supply is an essential part of the defence capability and of ensuring that, in the event of a crisis, we are able to prevent any danger to the nation. It is very important that the supply of ammunition has been ensured by this good joint Nordic activity and also by ensuring that the production of gunpowder in Finland is secured in such a way that sufficient ammunition is provided for both infantry and artillery weapons, if necessary. And when this is well established, then it is more likely that the need will not come. In this above, representatives of Heinonen and Aittakumpu spoke well and in such a broad manner that I would not go back and repeat these important points of view which they raised. When the Minister of Defence is here to answer questions, I would like to ask whether, indeed, in this agreement, when another party to the defence equipment production in the hands of another Nordic country receives such a privilege, a privilege, in a situation in which the country is in crisis, this agreement also applies, for example, to anti-aircraft missiles, such as those used in fighter planes, which the Nordic countries would not produce themselves but which the Nordic countries may have in stock and which could then be available to the fighters in the other Nordic countries in the event of the crisis being escalated? In other words, Mr President, I would like to hear more from the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u12	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation and the honourable Members for their excellent contributions. Indeed, a long-term security and defence policy is in Finland's interest, and if we look at how the world has developed recently, it can be said that the fact that we have had such a long-term security and defence policy has meant that we are perhaps in a better position than some other countries. It should therefore be continued and a policy that also enjoys broad acceptance in this country. As far as this presentation is concerned, it will improve the basis for security of supply in today's networked world and maintain and develop close cooperation with our very important and natural partners. It is a good thing that this is being promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u13	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes that Parliament approve the attached agreement between the Governments of Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden on security of supply between the Governments of Finland, Norway and Sweden on cooperation in the field of armaments. The state contract-level Nordic security of supply annex was signed at a ministerial meeting in Visby in April 2019. The Annex lays down security of supply arrangements and how and under what conditions the parties may request and receive security of supply support from each other. The agreement is part of the promotion of Nordic defence cooperation. So now this agreement is properly coming to the House. Mr President! This has not been the case in previous and much larger defence cooperation agreements. It is therefore appropriate to draw attention to the so-called NATO host agreement, which was concluded in autumn 2014 in connection with the NATO summit in Wales. It was signed at the time by the Defence Forces Commander Jarmo Lindberg, but the agreement was never signed for approval by Parliament. [Markus Black Lake interlude] In fact, the host country agreement is a state treaty. It is revealed by the content of the agreement, which is now much more binding on Finland in terms of defence and affecting its international position than the Nordic treaty under discussion. I would say that the host country agreement can even in practice limit Finland's independence and sovereignty. In foreign and security policy, it is in any case contrary to Finland's interests. Under the agreement, NATO’s military activities in the host country may include military activities, ‘the implementation of the necessary countermeasures to achieve the objectives of the military action, including the attack, the transfer, maintenance and combat exercises’. NATO or its Member State, which is obviously the United States in this case...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u22	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here and it is easy to join Mr Heinonen. Later, someone mentioned that export permit policy. It is very important that it is united. It should be coherent in a wider area, so that we do not get left behind or our industry does not. Now that Mr Kaikkonen raised the issue of security of supply, if you will allow me, I would like to ask him a small question about security of supply: In other words, the defence industry, in which bullets are manufactured, is also at risk in its own way. Most of the ammunition plants in the Union are private factories producing both civil and public products on the same production lines. Civil production accounts for around 70 to 90 % of production, which means that factories would no longer be commercially viable after the ban on lead firing. In turn, the suppression of civil production would rapidly close a significant proportion of production lines, which would no longer be able to absorb government production in the event of a crisis. Nor would a skilled labour force be available anymore. Finnish defence is based on a skilled, trained reserve. Are you also taking into account the possible effects of this ban on lead, in cooperation with the other Nordic countries, and will you safeguard the continued shooting activity of the reserve?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u23	Mr President! Mr Kaikkonen! Mr Yrttiaho attached a debate on NATO and the host country agreement with NATO. I must say that I understand that in the old days, when our neighbour to the east was the Soviet Union, with a communist system with all its ideals — the persecution of barbed wire, those thinking otherwise, the trampling of human rights — the extreme left of Finland, which divided the same ideology, was fiercely against NATO — NATO, which was the defence organization of Western democratic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u24	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about NATO, the host country agreement or the Soviet Union, but about security of supply and matters of defence, and that is an example of Mrs Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u25	Mr President! I was also thinking a little bit about my own ideas to say that I noticed a moment ago that the Left Alliance, at its own party assembly, was aligning its position on the host country agreement in the way that Mr Yrttiaho has pointed out here. This must have been a very awkward question for the government, which I know the Prime Minister is very specific about the foreign policy line, and yet one government party is working against the government's foreign policy agenda and is also here against this line, which I find strange and strange, in particular by justifying it in a way that does not agree with the truth about the way the host country agreement is intended to operate in Finland, and which also gives a mistaken picture of how Parliament has dealt with this issue. Both the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have dealt with these issues in their own right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u28	We're not going to the debut now. There is one more speech on the list, but there is room for further action if you speak briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u29	Mr President! I too would like to say my own thoughts on this same subject. It is certainly a question of security of supply, but ultimately, if Finland is considering these international cooperation patterns, it must always be based on the fact that Finland's own security interest here determines it. It is the only sustainable approach, and we will consider these cooperation arrangements in any way. That is the problem that if cooperation goes too far with sections which may give an interpretation of what it might be a view of a third party, what is being done here. Of course, that's our risk. But as long as we talk about international cooperation, including military cooperation, it must be based only on the assessment of the situation which is most reasonable and best for Finland's security. This is the starting point for all these agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u31	And Mr. Yrttiaho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u32	Mr President! Yes, this host country agreement has not been mentioned in the government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u35	Now, Minister Kaikkonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u36	Mr President! Congressman Heinonen asked about the arms export line. Well, if you are looking for a major change of direction, then I do not think there is one, but surely every government has its own differences of emphasis, and it is clear that this government has respected human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u42	There is one last request to speak on the list. Is it gonna be less than three minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u43	Mr President! In fact, I would like to say to that statement by Minister Kaikkonen that this government, or has already gone, wanted to emphasise human rights. It actually occurred to me that did not the previous government, that is, the central government of Juha Sipilä, stress human rights. This is precisely what is confusing the players in the PIA, which is our defence industry, when these human rights have, however, been explicitly enshrined in the EU's position, which has already been followed by Finland during the Sipilä regime and even before. Now the question is whether a change of line has taken place because this has been highlighted and, for example, there has been an appeal for room to intervene beyond this official EU position, for example, which has been followed in the past. That was my question, which was worrying. Now that there is no such thing as the Rinte government and there is no more supply ministers and there will be new government negotiations, let us hope that this issue will arise and be clarified, because these defence industry companies may be negotiating big deals for three to six years, and if we do not know the rules of the game by which these export permits are granted, then it will be a very lot of lottery, whether there is the courage to be of this type. And I am sure that, if the left-wing coalition is invited to a new government conference, it will now wonder many times whether there will be a government that will not be there to sign up for the termination of the host country agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u44	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u45	Mr President! This relates to the so-called secondary law, which is a very important law. It is a law that was enacted to ensure that, when patient and personal data are collected in the actual customer work of social welfare and health care, it is necessary to specify precisely what other purposes this information can be used for — statistics, monitoring, government activities, but also, possibly, scientific activities and new innovative business. Last week we were talking here about something which is also on the agenda at second reading today about the importance of health technology. It currently amounts to more than EUR 2 billion in exports. For medical activities, secondary activities have played a very important role. It allows for a whole new type of large data groups to be processed and then important scientific findings to be obtained. In time, when this law was being prepared, there was talk of whether the whole of this health technology would even become a new Nokia Finland. Now, in this draft law, the question is that the processing and further processing of this information will of course require resources and, accordingly, it must be possible to charge fees to future users of the information, and this is provided for in this article. It is estimated that a few hundred thousand euros will come from the information licensing authority and, in that respect, from a very important point of view. I consider this proposal to be well thought out and prepared. After all, this topic itself has recently been accompanied by a necessary ethical debate on, among other things, the widespread use of genetic data. There was also a topical debate on television, last week, as I recall, in connection with the FinnGen project. That is what this is all about, and the secondary law itself is important, and health technology and related scientific research and business are very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u46	Mr President! This bill is merely a technical amendment to the draft law adopted last season, and this is certainly a good and necessary amendment, and I have no comment on this. But as Mr Lindén pointed out in his own speech, we had a debate here in Parliament last week on the Data Protection Ombudsman's report, and then I took the floor to highlight the preparation of this law as an example of poor drafting of legislation, namely how careless data protection issues can be dealt with even in the Ministry. So this simply means that we have not yet understood how serious and big the issue of data protection is. The purpose of this Act is to create up-to-date and harmonised conditions for the use of personal data generated in social and health care services, as well as other personal data related to health and well-being, for statistical purposes, studies, development and innovation activities, education, information management, regulatory guidance and supervision, planning and clearing up tasks. So these are all really important objectives, and in itself there is nothing to be said about this either. But if we recall the original bill presented last season, i.e. in Sipilä's government, then it was completely forgotten, or almost completely forgotten, these data protection issues, and it was even contrary to the EU Data Protection Regulation. Because of these major shortcomings and errors, the bill was patched up and corrected so much that, at the end of the day, it was quite different from what it was originally about. Without the intervention of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health last season, people's data protection would have been in serious danger. I would just like to point this out in this context, because I hope that this kind of action will not be repeated and that data protection issues will be taken into account with sufficient seriousness in the legislative work even before the law comes before the committee, because it will then be very difficult to move on with these big changes. Mr President! Obviously, and hopefully in this case, the corrections made by the committee were sufficient and people's data protection has not been put at risk. If the Minister had been there to present this bill, I would have asked him. I understand that in a draft law of this technical nature, the Minister does not necessarily think it appropriate to be here on the ground, but fortunately Mr Lindén is here now. So I'm hoping that maybe you could take these greetings and the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u47	Mr President! This is a technical correction to the significant legislation adopted during the last parliamentary term, which we call secondarys. Indeed, the objective of this law is to enable the efficient and secure processing of personal data stored for the purposes of social and health care activities as a whole, and for the purposes of social and health guidance, supervision, research and statistics. The purpose of the Act is to safeguard the protection of individual trust and the rights and freedoms of the processing of personal data. The law also introduced the provisions of the EU Data Protection Regulation into Finnish social welfare and health care. President! I am truly amazed that this is only a technical correction. Last season, when we were discussing this draft law, we were able to work hard because the opposition in every way held the bill back. You lodged this objection and found this bill to be questionable in many ways — in very harsh terms you were assessing this bill. But when the bill was passed, I don't remember many bill proposals from the social field, I would have received so much commendation from the social welfare organizations. President! I note that without this legislation, for example, we could not build quality health records in Finland. Unlike the rest of the Nordic countries, Finland does not systematically monitor the quality of public health care. In Sweden, for example, there are many registers following the state of the people’s disease, such as the diabetes register, which has been used to identify the type of diabetes treatment and to increase the equality of treatment, for example, to improve the control of diabetes. That is why I really wonder how the speeches are so different. Quite irresponsibly, the present government parties blocked and opposed this bill, but now that you are responsible, you obviously support it. I support this technical change, which is here, and I very much welcome the fact that, during the last parliamentary term, we were able to obtain this amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u48	Mr President! Indeed, the aim of the Seiola Group is to create up-to-date and harmonised conditions for the use of personal data generated in social and health care services and other personal data related to health and well-being for statistical purposes, research, development and innovation activities, education, information management, regulatory guidance and supervision, and the planning and clearing up of public authorities. The law allows the wider use of customer and patient information in social welfare and health care for purposes other than the original use of this information in the social welfare and health care service system. In other words, it is very good that these processes and responsibilities in the disclosure of information have now been clearly described. The quality record work raised by Mr Sarkomaa is very important and we should promote this if we want to improve the cost-effectiveness of our social welfare and health care, the quality of care, monitoring, comparison, transparency, so that we can also compare treatment results in general terms. We need secondary legislation to allow this information to be processed and combined with different registers. What this law is now dealing with is a technical amendment to the previous law on the substitution of requests for information. Of course, the processing of requests for information also generates costs, and it is reasonable and justified that operators should receive appropriate compensation. Then, when determining the level of these compensations, account must also be taken of the working time allocated to it. At the same time, however, it is important to note that, for example, young researchers carrying out research work do not make the research work too expensive, as all researchers and the motivation for research must be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u49	Mr President! This is indeed a technical change and a good one, but I would just like to make this brief. Good examples have emerged here of why this law is needed. Indeed, during the last period, the government did a great deal of work by bringing the secondary law forward. It helps with the processing of this information. The fact that it was filed with the data protection issue is perfectly understandable, since this is a completely new type of information in Finland that is now needed. This is important, for example, for the development of treatments, it is very important to promote the effectiveness of services in general, it is also important for quality registers and quality and its development, but also for the promotion of health technology and its exports. Many countries really do, you can say, envy how much such legislative work has been done in Finland in recent years to ensure that we can take health technology and its exports forward and have a legal basis. I followed last season, although I was not in committee, how important it was that this law should specifically take account of the person whose information is at stake. I warmly support the fact that this will also be used in practice there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u50	Mr President! To Mr Sarkomaa, I would just like to say, as I said quite clearly in my opinion, that this law is necessary, and I do not in any way question this law, which was adopted last season. I am also in favour of this technical change, and I am not against it. But without the major corrections made in committee during the previous period, there would have been serious errors and shortcomings in the law. That is why I think it is important that we also discuss it, because I do not think that the committee is the right place to make such huge corrections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u51	Mr President! We have actually talked a great deal about such structural reforms of the social fabric over the last decade, and I think that this law is particularly welcome in the sense that it is at least as important that we move ahead with the management of the knowledge of the social sciences, and we are looking for greater use of knowledge. In this respect, this secondary law is a very central piece of legislation, although only a technical issue is being discussed today. I think it must be put at the heart of the future. It is important to make use of social data to promote both research and development, innovation. I see that secondary law, in conjunction with the promotion of precision medicine and centres of expertise — such as the National Cancer Centre, the National Medical Development Centre, the Genome Centre, biobanking — is a large entity in which such a health strategy can be taken forward in Finland and applied for a leading role internationally. In that sense, I hope that this issue will be taken forward with courage. Here, representatives of Sarkomaa and Laiho have also wanted to see quality registers moved forward, and I think it would be a very welcome step forward. As far as this technical change is concerned, which we now have in this debate, it will help to clarify the rules on the distribution of these compensations. There is nothing more to be said about this, but I hope that further efforts will be made and courageously taken forward in the development of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u52	Mr President! High-quality legislative drafting is everything a and o, and therefore The Sipilä Board of Directors set up a Legislative Evaluation Council. If anyone has had a job, they have also had a look at the legislative proposals of this government. I myself was a member of the committee, and I must now say to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, who is not a member of the committee: I'm sure you heard the strong opposition from the Greens, Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, even the RKP. This bill, which is important to all Finns, was fundamentally opposed. Without this, for example, a growth strategy in the health sector could not be taken forward. It is a strategy for improving public health on the one hand and the national economy on the other. Perhaps the most important change to this bill was the addition of a working group of experts to support the licensing authority to draw up policy guidelines on data protection, information security and anonymisation. There were no other major changes in principle. That is the role of Parliament: to consult experts and make the changes that Parliament and the Committee of Experts see as necessary. The bigger question is that, and I could ask the government parties: What do you have against making public health care transparent? What do you object to, for example, national comparisons of diabetes treatment so as to ensure equal treatment for all? The previous government, or shall we say: The Sipilä government, early MPs in Parliament added money to pilot quality registers. They've been piloting them for two years now. All public health organisations have appealed to the government and hoped that the quality registers would be extended, but next year's budget will be missing money for this. I now hope that the representatives here will be able to promise, whatever the government will be, that if we are in the government, we will certainly take care of this. There is a government base, no matter what happens after the Rinte government, not this valuable work that THL has done, involving patient organisations, the entire health system, the social welfare sector and all public health organisations... Finally, we could compare information about our health care — what do you have against it? Can you promise me that next year's budget will be increased? Quality registers could be extended by around EUR 2 million next year. When you spend billions of dollars sharing money, why didn't you have enough money for this? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u53	Mr President! I was certainly not in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health last season, that is, I cannot talk about that process there, but I am always concerned about data protection and I think that data protection should always be too cautious than too lax. When I read the bill that came to Parliament after its committee reading, there were so many corrections that there was a great risk of some mistakes or something important being overlooked. And when the law is being corrected in committee, there is always a great risk that it will not be possible to make those major corrections as well as it should be. But obviously this has happened now, and we are pleased to note that the amendments made by the committee were sufficient and that people's data protection has not been put at risk by this bill. The only reason I took the floor is because data protection issues must be as strict as they can ever be, so that no irreparable and irreparable mistakes are made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u54	Mr President! Let me briefly say what this bill is all about. Of course we can remember the past and have a very polarized debate about who did what and what you are going to do. Billions — a great deal of fine words of this kind have just come up, which have nothing to do with the matter we are dealing with here at all, as Mr President pointed out in connection with another matter a little earlier. This government presentation text makes it very clear that ‘the payment or non-payment of requests for information affects the economy of the enterprises which need information. The estimated average cost of providing the information request to the customer would be EUR 10675. If processing costs are not charged, the customer shall pay a fixed price of EUR 1000 for the decision on the request for information.’ Then this text goes on here. In other words, this is very important for start-ups, for example, and for many others and, of course, for this information licensing authority, which will receive revenue through which it will then be able to cover the costs of processing this material. So, in itself, this is not just a technical proposal, but it is really an important one, that it is related to the things I have just said.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u55	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u56	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes that Parliament approve the agreement between Finland, Norway and Sweden on the Northern Calotte Training Foundation for the years 2020 to 2023, which has been prepared under Swedish leadership in cooperation with the Finnish and Norwegian ministries responsible for labour and education. In line with this, Finland would undertake to finance 80 training places per year from the Northern Kalat Training Foundation, Norway would undertake to buy 60 training places per year and Sweden 145 training places per year. The number of training places funded by Finland would remain unchanged compared to the previous contract period ending at the end of this year, and the cost of the contract is estimated to be approximately EUR 1.7 million per year during the contract period. Finland is intended to finance labour market training in the construction sector, technical engineering, restaurant and catering sectors, organised by the Northern Kalot Training Foundation. Education is slightly more expensive than national education due to the nature and multilingualism of the boarding school. However, the Nordic level of education is a good prerequisite for the mobility of skilled labour in the North Calat region, which meets the needs of the labour market. Oxford Research has carried out an evaluation of the activities of the Training Foundation for the expiry of the contract period. According to this evaluation, the training provided by the Foundation is of high quality and provides added value for both participants, staff and the labour market. The pass rate of education has improved during the contract period and the employability of graduates is high. This new agreement will not bring substantial changes in substance compared to the previous agreement. Changes have been made primarily due to the change in the Finnish Ministry of Responsibility and consequently the change in the Finnish financing model. Finland decides on the funding of the Foundation’s activities as a grant instead of a procurement through a previous call for tenders. The agreement was signed in Stockholm on 25 November 2019 after the President of the Republic granted its signature and would enter into force for Finland 30 days after Finland notified the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs of its approval, but not earlier than 1 January. From 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u57	Mr President! In terms of security of supply, we discussed the importance of Nordic cooperation for Finland, and this is certainly also the case for the economy and education. In Europe, the look has turned to the north, as the Kalotti region has considerable international investments, up to a billion in Norway. Of course, Sweden and Finland's investments, when they are added together for several years, talk about investments in billions. The direction of economic activity is moving towards a common border area that is important to us in Finland, Sweden and Norway, and in this respect it is important that the workforce is able to move. We are delighted that Finland in particular: Thanks to a good policy under the Sipilä government, the economy has grown and employment has developed well, and in this respect, perhaps even in the northern regions of Finland there is more talk of labour shortages than unemployment, and it should then be facilitated by improving labour mobility. However, improving labour mobility through education always contributes to increasing economic activity and, on the other hand, to the possibility of applying for employment in the neighbouring country for possible economic downturns, so it is very much to be welcomed that the current government also wants to promote this, both through the activities of the Northern Calat Training Foundation and beyond. Of course, I am now encouraging the new government to be formed after the negotiations to continue to look at the north and Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u58	Mr President! This will come to us in the Committee on Education and Culture, and it will be welcomed with joy. In this context, I would just like to say once again that I am definitely a supporter of Nordic cooperation. We have very much the same thinking in health care, in the welfare society and then in education. We, all countries, believe that high knowledge is what it is worth investing in. It is very important from the point of view of man and society's survival. Once again, as we continue this good cooperation, I warmly support this. I'm sure this is going to go through quite as a sock then in our committee. I am also taking the floor today because today we have just received the results of the Pisa study for 2018. At the same time, I would just like to say that, while we are in this Nordic cooperation, we are not only a recipient party, but we are also giving if you think that Finland is once again among the best in reading. What is particularly noteworthy about that Pisa study is that only Finland combines high levels of competence and satisfaction with life. I think it is something that we should remember now and be proud of, and then we should create those partners – we are quite a sought-after partner, a good one. Thank you. This is a very good continuation of the agreement. Co-operation on content, but also methodological. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u60	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u61	Mr President! The proposal therefore proposes to amend the law on aid to clean up contaminated sites. It is proposed to transfer state aid, recovery and control to the Centre for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment of Pirkanmaa to the Centre for the Development and Administration of Business, Transport and Environment, as well as the Employment and Economic Development Offices. There are no comments to be made on the actual draft law, but a few comments on the action itself, namely the clean-up of contaminated countries: Since the end of the 1980s, the state has been systematically supporting the detection of pollution and the cleaning up of contaminated sites. At that time a state waste management work system was created, based on agreements between the state and the partners. The removal of contaminated land includes excavation, transport to the reception point, reception and treatment of contaminated land. The Ely Centre may request tenders from companies in the sector, either as an overall contract or as a split contract. The problems experienced by companies relate to cases where tenders are requested as overall contracts. Offering as an overall contract will allow large operators in the sector to price small construction companies without reception points out of the market and, in time, out of the market. In this case, there is a risk of creating a regional monopoly. In addition, the quality and reference requirements laid down have been found to be excessive. In 2016, it was agreed that ely as a rule aims to provide shared contracts, but a case-by-case reflection is always used, taking into account the specific characteristics of each project. Many factors affect the preparation of procurement, the selection of the rehabilitation method and the selection criteria. Mr President! The problems concern cases where tenders are therefore requested as overall contracts. In these cases, the total work is provided by the construction companies and by a couple of individual companies that own the reception site. The advantage is the company that owns the reception point, which has the reception point closest to the destination. This will give it the opportunity to take advantage of a dominant position. Mr President! So what's the result? Well, small construction companies are virtually excluded from the market over time. The provision of PIMA projects requires references to similar sites, for example over the last two years. In practice, when small construction companies cannot obtain works, they will also fall off the list of potential suppliers because their references have become obsolete. In practice, a couple of big players will be the only bidders. Real competition will cease, and in the future, the State will only receive offers from large operators in relation to PIMA procurements. As a result, in the case of a draft law, action should be taken to allow companies of different sizes to operate in the current market. It is the economic interest of the State and it should also be taken into account in the application of these laws and, at the same time, as a communication to the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u62	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u63	Mr President! Now, at second reading, we have a government proposal here which proposes to strengthen the funding of upper secondary school education by EUR 18 million, of which the central government accounts for approximately EUR 7.5 million. The rest is therefore the contribution of municipalities, and this is due to the fact that the funding model for upper secondary schools is such — the municipalities have a great responsibility for funding. The hearings of the Committee on Education and Training very strongly highlighted the fact that funding for upper secondary education is still challenging: it is around EUR 100 million lower every year than the cost of implementation is. That is why we would have proposed, and in the Committee on Culture and Education we proposed that Parliament would require the Government to prepare a comprehensive reform of the financing system for upper secondary school education and that it should be assessed whether the additional payment to small upper secondary schools today could be converted into an additional increase in the accessibility of upper secondary school education. This idea was supported by all the experts who commented on it in our committee. It is also proposed that the new financing model should be predictable and that funding should better reflect the real costs of upper secondary school education. The second point that was commented on in our committee hearing, although in fact the proposal does not concern it, was the extension of compulsory education. In this context, the committee stated in its report: ‘The most important reform objective of the government term is the educationrequirement age of 18 years. In this context, there is a need for a balanced assessment of the development needs of the whole of secondary education and the cost structure of education. Extending the compulsory education age will require significant additional investment in the funding of education in both upper secondary and vocational education.” With regard to these additional contributions, we also heard significant concerns about the fact that the additional contributions currently earmarked for it in the Government Programme are unlikely to be sufficient, and this may even lead to a deterioration in the quality of education, because if the additional resources are not sufficient, that means that they should be taken from the basic funding, both in upper secondary education and in vocational education, because when something is imposed by the Parliament, then it must also be managed by the municipalities, and secondary education is the responsibility of the municipalities. As we disagreed on this issue and on the implementation of compulsory education, we also proposed that the paragraph I have just read in committee should be replaced by the following: ‘The main objective of the government’s reform is the compulsory education age of 18 years. However, extending compulsory education is not the most effective way of addressing the exclusion and early school leaving of children and young people. Instead, we need timely support and investment from the early years onwards. Ensuring the quality of secondary education requires additional resources for existing activities, as the report states. The Government is investing 107 million in new obligations without correcting old funding gaps.” Our objection is therefore based on these two proposals, that is, the statement of reasons and the statement of reasons, and I now propose that Parliament approve the statement of reasons and objections in accordance with the statement of objections. The government's proposal itself is a very positive step in the right direction, that is to say, the strengthening of the funding for upper secondary school education is exactly what is needed, but, as we heard in the committee hearings, it is not enough. Since the Government Programme does not at present include other issues concerning basic funding for upper secondary school, we therefore considered it appropriate to also propose a statement on the reform of the funding as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u64	Mr President! I support both motions for amendments to the Assembly in line with Mr Multala's objections. Mr President! Indeed, strengthening the funding of upper secondary school education is a positive step in the right direction. What is essential is that this whole is not sufficient. The problem is that the government is investing 107 million in new obligations without correcting the old, fundamental financial deficits, just as Mr Multala described. Our common will is that every young person should complete a secondary degree, but when resources are scarce, we must look at what are the most effective points to invest in order to achieve this important goal. And what has been found to affect it is that basic education is strengthened, ensuring that every person who completes basic education receives the necessary knowledge and skills for further studies — literacy, arithmetic — in such a way that secondary education is possible and a secondary degree is completed. On the other hand, early intervention, as early as possible, is one of the things to be invested in.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u65	Mr President! Two different positions were taken in this protest, and I think they are both very important. All in all, this government proposal is a step in the right direction, because it increases the money for upper secondary school education. Let us take into account, however, that this addition is also based on the fact that more is being taken from the municipalities and that, at the moment, we have municipalities in a rather tight position, it is not very easy for those municipalities. That is why this second part of the objection is extremely important to note: that we do need a new financial system for upper secondary school education. We tried to push it up some time ago, but unfortunately it did not come from there, and we now hope – and I hope so as chairman of the committee – that the new government will then catch up on this reform of the financial system as soon as possible. It takes time for the financial system to be put into practice and implemented, and that is why it should be done. The second part of the objection relates to the fact that the government is planning — the previous government, which is now acting as the Editorial Minister — to increase compulsory education to 18 years of age, with a budget of EUR 107 million. Well, everyone understands that that money really doesn't get much. Of course, we lack the details, but there is little need for an understanding of the educational side when you know that 107 million will not get very much, especially if you really need to increase your compulsory education to 18 years of age. In other words, this money, which is now reserved, would be much more impressive if it were put into that earlier stage, for example, to reduce student groups or, for example, to be smaller preschool groups or, overall, smaller groups in early childhood education. When the other side of this is that when you raise your education to 18 years of age, how to ensure that you are actually there until 18 years of age, when we already have that dropout, no matter how much. And it is always said that the carried student does not stay in the class so that I will just see it, we will all see that this is not going to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u66	Mr President! This is where the previous speeches themselves took up quite the right points, but in this speech I really want to draw attention to two points, two positive points, here. Mr Risikko has already pointed out the Pisa studies published here today, and it must be pointed out that Finland is still the world's leading player in young people's skills, particularly in literacy research, still the brightest know-how and the brightest point, and the level of mathematics has remained the same — but of course this does not mean that we can start to rest in education. Education, as has been said here from many mouths, is a very important, key foundation and measure for the future of society. The second point relates to this paragraph: these comments are, in themselves, necessary and correct, but let us remember that we are also turning the boat in the right direction with regard to the funding of upper secondary school education, which is an increase of EUR 18 million. It is quite clear, and I would also say indisputably, that the increase in the budget itself is still insufficient and the needs are greater, but we are still turning the boat in the right direction, and I believe that from now on, funding for upper secondary school education will be able to make Finland a better level, and also from the point of view of the quality of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u67	Mr President! Certainly, in the financing of upper secondary school education, this 18 million, indeed 7.5 million from the state, will be needed, as we heard in committee, and this is definitely a step in the right direction. What our group would have liked, however, is that it would have been a little more ambitious to have finally arrived at a situation in which funding is cost-effective. Now that the funding is based on actual costs, it has been, as it were, a constant downward spiral, and now there is still a reduction of almost EUR 1 000 in the unit cost of upper secondary school education, which means that the costs are higher than the funding received. In practice, therefore, our proposal for a statement meant that we hoped and proposed that the Government would prepare a comprehensive reform of the financial system. As far as this objective of extending compulsory education is concerned — it is, of course, a major reform and it comes before us separately — I am very concerned about the votes which are very strongly calling for the inadequacy of the resources allocated at this stage. It would then have to be whatever it takes to extend the compulsory education age, if it is to be done, at least to ensure that the resources allocated to it do not under any circumstances undermine the quality of education, as it now appears to be happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u68	Mr President! After all, everyone here really thinks that this is a good thing to bring more money. But here's a bit of a peculiar tone in the sense that there's always talk of bringing in 18 million when there's actually only seven and a half more money. That 10 and a half comes from the county, and it's out of the county register. Municipalities want to invest in this, it is quite clear, because high school education is more important than just learning because it has a certain status for that municipality. I am proud that the municipalities understand that it is of great importance. Of course, consider the poor municipality: The poor municipality is not in a position to offer all the options. That's when the attraction isn't so good, and then you can go all the way to high school. Well, of course, we hope that through such cooperation mechanisms and cooperation between municipalities and cooperation between secondary and secondary schools we will then be able to keep the upper secondary school network as good as possible. Of course, we all understand that it is not just walls that can be maintained, but that they must have that effect and its appeal, because young people are already able to assess the quality of upper secondary school education. Of course, this high school education is so important, given that the government, which is now acting as a supply minister, has aimed at 50% of the age group completing a university degree. At the moment it is just over 40%, and in order to increase it, we need to strengthen secondary vocational education, but also upper secondary school education. That is why this high school education is so important from many points of view. But let's just say that it's a great thing we got that $7.5 million there. Of course, we too are satisfied with this in the municipalities. But hopefully the financial system can be reformed, and this is not just a matter for the municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u69	Mr President! I would like to say that in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Finns have also agreed with this amendment to the explanatory statement presented by Mr Multala, which indeed states that we do not believe that extending the compulsory education age is the most effective or cost-effective way of improving the level of education of Finnish young people, which is, of course, an important objective to be achieved, but we believe that there are other ways. The already fallen Rinte government has planned to earmark EUR 107 million for this, and we believe that this money could be used for many other good, more cost-effective measures, including a significant increase in special education, which would benefit both pupils in need of special education and all other pupils in schools. So we really agree with this objection to the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u70	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u71	Mr President! I have no objection to the adoption of this law, but I would draw attention to the fact that we had three laws in this row which had a common background. It relates to the amendment of the Administrative Law, which changed the names of appeals and certain related processes, and it had a huge spillover effect on a number of laws which then provided for these appeals. I think that good legislation would have been that, at the time of the actual amendment of the nuclear law, changes would have been made to the laws it had an impact on. That's how many times it's customary to do it. Now we're going to have so many. This was not the first time these laws came in this way. Parliament and decision-makers are often criticised for the fact that there are so many new laws in Finland each year. This could have been done by a different process, but it is a good thing that we are doing this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u72	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 29 November 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u73	The 21st item will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-03-ps-74.u74	Mr President! The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the provisions of the law on appeal, in particular with regard to the right to appeal, are also consistent with the Law on administrative proceedings, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2020. It is a matter of restricting the appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court only to matters for which there are specific grounds. The aim of the Licensing Scheme is to enable the Supreme Administrative Court to focus on more demanding legal issues and to ensure the coherence of case law. I understand the need to harmonise legislation, and the legislative amendments proposed in this respect are justified. But I also understand the views expressed in the hearings of the Finnish Nature Conservation Association and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and the concern that restricting the right to appeal may have an impact on legal protection, the right to participate or the state of the environment. Well, then, why do you find it problematic to limit your appeal permit? Well, it is particularly problematic because the Supreme Administrative Court only justifies its decision when it handles the complaint. Therefore, the Supreme Administrative Court does not justify its decision when the appeal is not granted and thus only some of the complainants will be given reasons for the decision on their case. Mr President! I am also concerned about the synergies between the changes made to the procedures for participation in environmental legislation. In addition to limiting the right of appeal, for example, legal fees have been increased. It is important for deprived citizens and small organisations. I therefore consider it important that the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection should include the need to assess the combined effects of changes in the procedures for the participation of environmental law in order to ensure that the changes in the legislation as a whole do not have a significant adverse impact on the legal security, the right to participate or the environment of the parties concerned. One of the places for examining the coverage of the rights of appeal is also in the context of the reform of the nature protection legislation included in the Government Programme. In the event of adverse effects, the system must be corrected. In addition, it is essential to ensure adequate expertise and resources for administrative rights in order to reduce the number of misinterpretations in different categories of issues. Adequate resources and smooth processes will also help to ensure that unjustified complaints are dealt with quickly without undermining the right of the parties to seek justice when they consider a decision to be unlawful. Mr President! These are the concerns I wanted to express, even though the government's proposal and the report by the Committee on the Environment are well-founded and unanimous.
