ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the transmission of the proposal to the Committee on Finance. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 10 October 2019. In this context, the debate will also be allowed in order to take place from 4 to 25 May. on the subject. Now the debate continues. We're going straight to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u2	Madam President! This week, indeed, we have been talking about the government's budget proposal for 2020 from morning to evening. A few comments on the budget proposal. Not all Finns are doing well. It is a conscious choice that the government will, for example, raise child allowances for single parents and families with many children. The same is true for the smallest pensions, including tax reductions for people with low and middle incomes. Madam President! The budget is also, to a large extent, an educational, educational and educational budget. I am well acquainted with the world and I am pleased that this government sees children, young people and workers in the industry as a factor for the future. Finland has all the prerequisites for maintaining and strengthening its cultural base. The importance of institutions and policies that maintain knowledge, creativity, social cohesion, equality and trust will be emphasised. Training measures will ensure the availability of skilled labour, the capacity to reform the economy and, in general, to raise the level of education. Increasing the level of education and improving the quality and effectiveness of the education system require new, transparent and experimental approaches, as well as active monitoring and influence of developments in the domestic and international operating environment, just as the government does in its budget proposal. The R & D environment will also be strengthened. In society... [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u5	Let's go to the list of speakers. We still have a lot of speeches to make here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u6	Madam President! This week we have been talking about that yellow book, which has been distributed to us all, about the budget proposed by the government for 2020. I am very pleased with the proper debate — there have also been some ramblings, but mainly it has been a proper debate. Above all, that budget for 2020 is a future budget. Now it's our turn. Here in the public gallery I see those who have built this country, who have contributed to this country and which it is our job to take care of today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u16	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, yes The Sipilä government is good enough to compliment, that is absolutely true.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u21	Next item on the list: Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u22	Madam President! Now a few picks from this budget and a week's debate. There are a lot of good things in the budget, but here I am listing the shortcomings that have been overlooked. First of all: Finnish motorists are heavily overtaxed. Nearly EUR 9 billion are collected from them each year
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u29	Madam President! At first, I cannot help but commenting on the speeches made by the people in the centre, in particular Mr Könttä's speech, that it proved to me the old saying that, when things get smaller, rhetoric becomes tougher. But, in fact, to go to this budget, there are, of course, many good things in this budget, as has been said before. There are many transport projects, such as highways 3, 9 and 12, which have long been driven. There are investments in education, there are foundations and many other, as such, needs, there are also these smaller pensions — I am sure they will need the money that has been allocated to them. Of course, there are some areas where there are also shortcomings. I am surprised that there has been little budgetary restraint in this government, which is why the number of police officers has not been increased to the 7850 that had been agreed between all parties before the elections. But in the big picture, those bets are mostly correctly targeted. But when it comes to how these are financed, that is the central issue, which is why the coalition is not involved in this government. It cannot be that financing is based on debt and that there are entirely unrealistic employment expectations. For example, I went through this issue of pay subsidies very carefully, which is considered to be a key instrument here. The investments that the government is now planning to make in support of wages — linked, for example, to the results of Etla’s research on the effectiveness of the wage subsidy — would at best reach a maximum of 3000 jobs during this parliamentary term, and it will amount to 5 % of the 60,000 that should be reached. In addition, in the 25 actions already published by the Minister of Labour, Haraka, only a one-year increase in the age of the pension line is the only one that can be calculated to have some kind of employment impact. So this budget is on top of nothing, and it is on top of nothing in a situation where the world has so many threats to the Finnish economy. Even this month, there may be a non-contractual Brexit. There is a threat of a trade war, and it is actually going on between the United States and China, which will inevitably affect Finland in the longer term. There is also a risk of raising customs duties between the USA and Europe, which affects Finland. Russia's economy does not grow much and so away. So our whole environment is in a challenging situation — not to mention what is happening in the Middle East and how it can affect it. In this environment — while adding the fact that the birth rate is very low and the future age groups are clearly lower than the current ones — it is indeed irresponsible to pass on debt to children and grandchildren. It is quite unreasonable in this situation, so the government should look at this now. And I hope that the government will at least be able to influence the fact that this labour market autumn will not lead to the fact that, in this difficult situation, in which we are very likely, as has been predicted, economic growth will dwindle — possibly even close to zero if this non-contractual Brexit is achieved — at least in the labour market, at least, it would not undermine our international competitiveness, because 40% of all the money spent on the welfare of Finns and included in the budget will be financed by export revenue. In other words, it is very important that Finland's competitiveness is taken care of and that it is not going to spoil the legacy of the Sipilä Government in this respect either, because all the good that is now being given to the people in this budget is based on the fact that during the last parliamentary term the government was able to lift Finland from the economic swamp. I remember that we were very close when the balance of EUR 10 billion was made, to the fact that the European Union had already intervened in the way in which the economy was managed in Finland. They came to almost zero, and now we're going to sink again. That is the wrong direction in that situation, because there are no easy years ahead. This is my key message, not that those contributions in themselves were wrong. The big picture's missing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u31	Madam President! A few days now, we have been going over a pile of paper called the state budget. The debate has sometimes become heated, especially from the centre of the Red-Green Climate Government's aid party. You are in the vanguard of telling us that the world is changing and that we need to change with it, but yet you do not accept the changing political situations and the new positions and ideas brought about by change from parties other than the government and from yourselves. Well, there are locals at the door, and the city center is brawling in full night's darkness in the light of its support. The budget drawn up by the government itself causes chills. The additional contributions you sprinkle in crumbs here and there, imagining that they will bring Finland's economy up, will be a wink and your voters will be sprayed. Your eyes are not in Finland or in the well-being of Finnish people, but in third countries and in some space — a whole billion dollars in development cooperation. After these decades, you still imagine that development aid would have something to do with it and would prevent the massive influx of migrants from third countries into Europe and Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u38	This matter will be suspended in the light of the meeting of the large committee. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 3 p.m. at the end of the large committee meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u39	We shall now resume today's session, which has been suspended earlier. Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u40	Mr President! First of all, before I go into this actual text, I would like to point out, as far as Parliament's Rules of Procedure are concerned — and I hope that the Council of Presidents will take this seriously — that we have a meeting of a large committee which is still going on there, and that these committee meetings should not be held at the same time as the plenary. Even if that meeting of the large committee had been closed just now, in any case, this representative, who is the leader of the demarcation group in the large committee, had to leave the meeting in the middle of the day so that he would not lose this pole seat again today for the speaker — just like today at 13.00 p.m. I would suggest that in the future, when the plenary session ends on 13.30, the meeting of the large committee will not start at 13.30, because it is simply not possible to fly there right away. We don't have to be late for that. So that would be a five-minute period, as it would be desirable now for me to have a five-minute period, allowing me to sit down and finish. An important Brexit theme was discussed in a large committee, and I had to leave it and come here so that I would not lose the place to speak. I hope that this will be taken into account in the future. It is also visible in this room that people are coming here because the meetings are still in progress. Mr President! And then here's the theme. — I am sorry to have to say that, but I wanted to send this message to the Council of President on how to proceed here. — We are now, in a sense, in the final phase of the budgetary referral debate, and in this respect Parliament has had a lively debate throughout the week. There have been lively speeches here and a lot of drama in the Chamber, and it says that Parliament is a living, debating body — both the opposition's criticism of this budget proposal and the positive comments made by the representatives of the government parties. In fact, it has been said in many words that, in terms of content, both the government programme and this budget proposal itself are, in the opinion of the opposition, very heavy in many respects, going in the right direction. The criticism we hear the most is whether the money, where the money is, is sufficient, whether there are grounds for making such an advanced budget. That is the content of this budget. There is a lot here, as we have heard in the speeches, big, great openings, new angles to take forward Finnish society. There has been a great deal of discussion about the care of the elderly, about bringing this quota into the law, i.e. the size of 0.7's carers being determined by law, about investing heavily in education and training, about resources for early childhood education. I myself have already pointed out in many contexts that 25 years if you take a century back, the elderly, pensioners over 65 years of age, have been the population that has been the most affected by cuts in Finnish society. All governments in the last quarter of a century have cut and, in a way, weakened the living conditions of the elderly. Moreover, the problem for older people is that because of this folded index in the earnings-related pension scheme, they are the only group of income recipients in Finland that is legally impoverished. So the older a person gets, the more low income he is in a relationship. Now, for the first time — for the first time in a quarter of a century — we have a government with a clearly positive programme for the elderly. There are concrete, big goals here, not just the old-age councilman, not just the man in charge of care, not just the investments in home care, not just the first steps in the famous centurion of May Day, which is the starting point for the support of the most low-income pensioners, there are targeted welfare checks that create a benefit for the senior health clinic. There's a lot of ways to come up against the elderly here. It's a great, great, great show. However, Mr President, perhaps the main feature of this government's budget proposal is not in these reforms, but in the spirit of what has been built up. We have a paradigm shift in public finances in Finland. With cuts and savings in the last decades, budgetary discipline, this is the first time that a government has turned its course to another. We are going to transport through resuscitation, we are going to take advantage of the public sector to improve people's well-being, and not to the point where the economy becomes crucial here. And this is the great paradigm shift that has taken place in economic policy, in which Finland is actually showing the whole of Europe a model, a model of how public finances can be exploited so that money is not the main objective. The economy is an instrument, not an end in itself, and in this respect this programme of the Rinte government is a completely new perspective and it also opens up the debate to the level of the European Union. I made too long a introduction, and I have to make a second speech. I would also have had another theme on the agenda of immigration and these phenomena, which we have talked about here today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u41	Congressman Kiljunen, there's still room at the back of the list. You can book it there. And this criticism, which you have made at the beginning, has been received, but at the same time I would like to inform you that we are here to ensure, before the plenary begins, that the meeting of the large committee has been suspended or closed. — Let us now move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u42	Mr President! Let's make a country together where everything is included. You don't have a price, you take care of others, you don't fall. Life is continuous learning and building. You can try, you can work, you can love. Mr President! We are on the right track with the budget for next year. Contrary to what has been claimed here today, government spending on education will increase equality in education. You don't get everything at once, but there's a lot going on. Education is always an investment in the future. At the same time, we are doing a small person's business here in Finland. I cannot help but say that it is also valuable to help people in need elsewhere outside Finland’s borders. I give full thanks and respect to the work of the Sipilä government. The Sipilä Government brought Finland to the surface of a sinking ship. That is why we can now sail fully towards the future. We are aware of the slowdown in global uncertainty and employment trends. The city centre wants to take responsibility and make sure we don't sink again. This government invests in families, children and young people. Child allowances for families with multiple children will increase from the fourth child. Child allowance for single-parent families will also rise, as will the increase in the number of guardians of family students. The subjective right to early childhood education is restored, and the total number of children in day care per breeder is reduced from eight to seven. Morning and afternoon activities will be strengthened by an amount of EUR 14.5 million. The student allowance will be increased by 31 million. The basic art education will receive 2 million more, as well as the workshop activities of young people. More teachers, mentors and local education are targeted at vocational education. The basic funding of higher education institutions will rise to the level it deserves. Perhaps the biggest reforms of the Government will take place in the field of education. According to the current plan, compulsory education age will rise from autumn 2021 in order to allow everyone to complete a secondary degree. The second degree is currently free of charge up to the age of 18. The extent to which the free movement of goods will take place since then has not yet been resolved. You don't get everything at once, but there's a lot going on. In addition to the vocational school and upper secondary school, the third path consists of long lines of folk high schools, tenth grade classes, workshops, preparatory training, rehabilitation and apprenticeship training. Different paths are being built for young people. The implementation of the compulsory education function will be fully replaced by the providers of education. Much more is planned. I think it is important that EUR 10 million be allocated to basic education and secondary student care because of the large regional differences in student care. It is also invested in hobby activities that each child gets one hobby in connection with school day. The mobile school is also expanding for older people. Mr President! The statues of Wäinö Aaltonen are called Work and the Future. The child of the work looks straight at us
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u43	Mr President! At the beginning of the week, we heard a harsh analysis from officials from the Ministry of Finance just before the government's draft budget was published. According to experts, growth is slowing down and the employment objective is not being achieved by these measures — the employment objective, which rests on the foundations of the economy of the government's entire programme, according to the government's own words. In its budgetary plan, the Government is committed to assessing additional expenditure on decision-making if at least half of the actions to be investigated to achieve the employment objective cannot be implemented by the 2020 budget debate. We offered you an alternative in the meeting, Mr President. We offered measures to strengthen employment on the basis of expert estimates at least 30,000 jobs. In addition, our methods included another 30,000 jobs. You would have had the opportunity to take up our proposals already. Instead, you expect the big picture of the economy to turn mysteriously into a growth path and you hope that the euro will emerge from somewhere to make the expenditure increases you have made succeed. My question is: is this responsible action? Your Honor! The defamed Sipilä government also achieved a lot of results: Over 140,000 jobs were created while youth unemployment declined significantly. Finland’s economy turned to growth. Why do they want to scrap all of this now? The most important policy to maintain a well-being society is to take care of strong public finances. The economy is only an instrument, but it is precisely a tool for all the good that a welfare society needs in order to function: quality of service and security in life situations where its own work cannot support itself. Since we at the meeting want to ensure that in the coming years and decades, too, we can ensure quality education for our children from early education to higher education and good care for the elderly, we are very concerned that this government wants to eat the well-being of the years to come in order to redeem its oversized electoral promises. Why on earth is the government postponing the decision on employment measures? We need to act now, not in a year. Our social security system also needs reform. Work must always be profitable, for only by encouraging hard work can we fund our well-being. Mr President! I am very pleased that there has been an investment in education and training. We have already heard experts in the prior consultation and it seems that the increase in appropriations as a whole is significant. That's a good thing. However, I am concerned about how we are getting to the 4% of GDP target for R & D expenditure. Although, at the beginning of the last term of government, the economic situation was very different from that of today — very challenging, not having lived for years of growth — even then it was ensured that the government's investment in R & D did not fall. In this year's budget, EUR 112 million was made of permanent investments to make decisive progress towards the 4% of gross domestic product of science and research funding. Now, however, it seems that we do not share the common objective of this 4% share. The Government's proposal will reduce the Finnish Academy's concession powers by EUR 31 million next year. These euros are precisely away from the high-quality, peer-reviewed top-level research and the strengthening of high-level competence that we definitely need in Finland to ensure its long-term growth. Why does the Government not keep the granting powers of the Academy of Finland at the level of the current year but transfer them to other destinations? Of course, other targets are good, but, for example, a supercomputer in Kajaani could be financed with separate funding. Finally, we still have to wonder out loud where the much-publiced climate measures are. The Government Programme is good and ambitious in terms of climate policy, but unfortunately this budget is not. Even before the elections, the Greens declared that cuts to environmentally harmful subsidies are being made with a strong hand, billions of dollars. The final result: not even the peat tax subsidy is being intervened by this government, at least at this stage. In the coming years this has been said by some mouths; other mouths have said that tax subsidies for peat will not be applied at all. Similarly, industry and the peat industry would need a view of what is being done in order to make the transition possible so that energy prices do not significantly increase, and we know how emission reduction measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u44	Ärade Herr Talman! Mr President! According to the Åland Autonomous Law, the State has legislative powers in matters relating to general taxes and charges. Aland taxable persons therefore pay taxes to the State on the same basis as taxpayers in the rest of the country. The tax on income and capital is therefore the same in Åland. VAT paid to the State on goods and services is levied on exactly the same basis as in the rest of Finland. Cars registered in Åland have their own registration plates, but car and vehicle taxes are exactly the same as in the rest of Finland. The same applies, of course, to fuel taxes, alcohol taxes, tobacco taxes, corporate taxes and all other taxes. The basis of the State tax is exactly the same in Åland as in the rest of the country and therefore goes according to this yellow budget book. As in other parts of Finland, the tax office in Åland also collects taxes and they end up in the state budget, which finances, among other things, medical care, education, state subsidies, roads and industrial policy. In Åland, these activities are financed not by the State but by the Province of Åland in accordance with the Act of Self-Government. In order to finance the functions of Åland’s self-government, Åland will be reimbursed a certain proportion of all taxes paid by Ålanders. The 1993 Self-Government Act decided that Åland will receive 0.45% of all government revenue each year, except for loans. In addition, if the Ålanders are hardworking taxpayers, the province will be credited with an excess of 0.50% of the country’s corresponding tax, i.e. the so-called tax credit or hard-earning money. However, this only applies to certain direct taxes, such as taxes on income, capital and corporation tax. For example, the tax credit is not paid on VAT revenue, which has increased its importance, nor on excise duties. Since the system came into force in 1993, taxpayers in Åland have paid more taxes than they have been ordered and a tax credit has been paid to the province. This is mainly due to the high level of employment in Åland and the fact that high employment increases tax revenues. What, then, is wrong, Mr President? Since 1993, the population growth in Åland has been double that of the whole country. In 1993 the population of Åland accounted for 0.49 per cent of the Finnish population and at the turn of last year the share of Ålanders was 0.54 per cent. As percentages, this may not sound particularly large, [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u45	Mr President! This government will not cut the euro from the poor either. This government will not cut the euro out of the organisations working to eradicate poverty. This government may not be investing euros in the bread line in this budget, but it is trying to remove people from that bread line. I was confused when I heard Mr Laukkanen, the representative and the chairman of the poverty group in Parliament speaking here in the Chamber: ‘This government programme does not have a low profile. “ How can the chairman of the Parliament's poverty group go into this budgetary, budgetary debate on the basis that this programme does not reduce poverty? As Vice-President of the poverty group itself, I see that there are many measures in this programme, the budget, that are critically lacking, so that people in Finland do not end up on bread lines for poverty. We should be interested here in raising the guardian, increasing the income of family students. We should be interested in action against over-indebtedness. They are found in this budget. We should be interested in returning the index, increasing the minimum daily allowance, the resources of the programme for changing child and family services, increasing social security and improving social services. These will correct the reasons why today, in 2019, there will still be poverty in Finland. I very much hope that we, as parliamentarians, will take on the common goal of eliminating poverty in Finland, and I really hope that together we will find ways to eradicate poverty in Finland. But I hope that poverty will not be used as an instrument in this Parliament to describe the objectives of the parties or their own objectives, but together we will set targets to get this disgusting and totally inappropriate phenomenon out of Finland at this time. I am convinced that these efforts, which the government budget is making to eliminate, for example, the poverty of families with children, are a good start. They do not take us to the finish line yet, and every single Member of Parliament knows that, but they are a good start to halve poverty during this reign and to get rid of it at the latest during the next term of government. That is what I think the whole Parliament, all the Members of Parliament, should be committed to. I hope that this House will no longer be able to do so until we get started on these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u46	Mr President! A lot has certainly been said about the budget as a whole this week, and very much in detail. However, I would like to take up one more point that we touched on yesterday when we discussed the section of the Ministry of Defence. Mr President! Yesterday, when dealing with the affairs of the Ministry of Defence, I raised a matter of great personal and fundamental importance to myself, namely the possibility for young diabetics to carry out military service and thus participate in the defence of a beloved fatherland, as all the other young people do. Finland was a model country in the world for a long time, as even in the early 2000s, the Defence Forces launched an experiment in which it was possible for a type 1 diabetic to seek military service if strict medical criteria were met. Over the years, more than a hundred diabetics have performed military service just as healthy young men and women have done. The results of the diabetes trials in military service have been very good. There has been no great difference in the suspension of service compared to healthy conscripts. The strong motivation of the diabetic garrison men also shows a great deal that many of the recruits have completed either the training of an officer or a reserve officer. I am one of these diabetics who have been given the opportunity to perform military service. I joined the Riihimäki Message Regiment in summer 2011, and settled as a lieutenant in the reserve in a year's time. I was able to do the service just as others, young healthy men and women, were allowed to do. I did not have any problems doing the service myself, although this is true, that sickness presents challenges in many situations. Serving for myself has been one of the best decisions of my life, as I had the opportunity to show myself that I can live a full life despite diabetes. I believe that many of the other diabetics who have served also share this feeling. Mr President! In the early part of this year, the Chief Staff announced that the military trial of diabetics will be stopped. At present, therefore, a diabetic youth no longer has the opportunity to seek military service, even if the good treatment of the illness and the support of the treating physician for the service are in order. That decision has taken the Finnish Defence Forces back to history. As I told you before, the results of the experiment have been good and there has been little difference in the discontinuation of diabetics compared to healthy conscripts. I don't know. I just feel like it's crazy. The Defence Forces have decided to close the doors to the service of a young man who is highly motivated at the same time as many young people are completely lost in motivation to do the service. By decision, the Defence Forces send very harsh greetings to those diabetic youths, their families and loved ones who are willing to seek and serve their own country. Secondly, I also fail to understand the argument of the Defence Forces that medical staff with diabetes are retired from the Defence Forces' organisation and that this is one of the key reasons why the experiment can no longer be continued. In fact, there are between 1 and 2 people committed to the experiment throughout the Defence Forces' organisation and they have done this work on a side-by-side basis, so the great organisation is primarily about will rather than resources. Mr President! Mr Kaikkonen, Minister of Defence, replied to me in this Chamber that he had received feedback on this matter and he would like to go over it again. I would like to thank the Minister for his wise words and I hope that the Defence Forces will reverse the wrong decision and begin to take the experiment forward again, because it is above all a matter of principle, justice and the fact that the hundreds and hundreds of diabetic young people who are thinking about their lives will be given the message that, if the criteria are met and the doctor's defence is positive, they will have exactly the same opportunity to defend and serve their own country as all the healthy young men and women who are entering the service today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u47	Mr President! Not only today, but yesterday, Mr Marttinen made a good point about this flaw in the Defence Forces, and I am very pleased with the reply that Mr Kaikkonen said yesterday to Mr Marttinen, which he repeated here. As we saw yesterday, the Minister of Defence is still going to clarify this issue with regard to diabetics, and it is certainly a good thing that he said so. [MatiasMarttisen intermediate call] Today, earlier in this Chamber, a fellow Member of Parliament from the Finns Party questioned to some extent whether this budget will be next year, 2020, tinkering or genuine investments. I am a little surprised at this speech when you look at that budget. If, for example, investments from the security sector are being raised for next year alone, there will be an additional EUR 7.5 million for the police, which is an important contribution, and it will be planned to increase the number of policemen by at least 300 during this entire government term. A really big and significant effort, and “smuggling ” is not a full picture. Next year, EUR 15 million will come to the Border Guard to improve technical control — there will be no tinkering. €3 million in additional money For the Defence Forces alone to increase the number of staff, with approximately 42 new posts in the Defence Forces, with a target of 100 new posts during this period — even if there is no tinkering. Putting EUR 150 million to repair material capabilities for the Defence Forces is not a matter of tinkering. These are just a few withdrawals from the security sector to illustrate what we are doing in this area alone. And the fact that it is claimed that it is a matter of crumbs or tinkering is indeed misleading in this matter. Mr President! A few more words on defence and the Defence Forces, more broadly speaking. The will to defend the country is at the heart of our defence, and in that sense too, the speech that diabetics, for example, can take part in the military service is extremely important. The will to defend the country remains when people feel that Finland is just and worthy of being defended. And we will continue to need our own credible defence capability based on the defence of the whole of Finland, the general military duty and the trained reserve. The conditions for voluntary defence must be safeguarded throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u50	Mr President! The representative Könttä put strong figures in that one after another. Sometimes the figure was already 10 billion. Perhaps you could say that it already seems surreal in relation to what we are talking about here. I will not comment on the process itself, but I would just like to say that we are talking about such measures, in fact the biggest investment in the history of Finnish public finances, that it would be acceptable that, of course, we should talk about exactly what it means. In this context it is not the subject of debate, Mr President. Instead, in my follow-up speech, I would like to highlight a major theme that has dominated the debate here this week. Almost on the subject as references have been made to the increase in the number of foreigners in Finland, and another big issue that has been raised by several mouths is entrepreneurship and the related investments and incentives. I went through some statistics to understand what we are talking about here, and I would like to open them a little bit here: The first point is that in 90 years Finland had a population of 20,000 people with a foreign background, while at the moment there are 350,000 Finns with foreign background in Finland. It's a really big change. I am not surprised that we are discussing this subject, it is a big change — positive, I will say it right away. So big changes are at stake, and then there is adjustment in one direction, if in the other, when this is a transformation so quickly. In addition, we still have 250,000 foreign citizens in Finland as students and many other positions here. So the world has changed, the world has decreased, people move across borders, people come here to Finland to find better conditions for living, just as Finns themselves have done throughout history. Nearly 300,000 immigrants moved to the United States under World War I. During World War II, we were sent to Sweden as refugees with 70,000 children — still having to discuss that situation. In the 1960s, a total of 400,000 Finns went to work in Sweden. The net migration, counting the returnees, was nearly 300,000. Yes, Finns have gone elsewhere, abroad, looking for better conditions for living, doing exactly what people have done throughout human history since the international migration. So the fact that people move across different boundaries is part of humanity, and that is what we are facing here too. It was interesting when we talked about entrepreneurship. The most rapidly growing entrepreneurial sector is the enterprises established by foreigners in Finland. We have more than 10,000 entrepreneurial enterprises with foreign background in Finland, over 10,000, and when you go to the business register to inquire, they grow fastest. In other words, foreigners — citizens who, of course, also receive Finnish citizenship, i.e. people with foreign background — entrepreneurs in Finland are one dynamo at the moment in Finland's growth. These companies with foreign background employ over 30,000 people, with a turnover of over EUR 4 billion. This is the great thing that this foreign population wants to work here. I was amazed at the debate that came first and foremost from the direction of the Finns, that people are talking about refugees of living standards and then, at the same time, they are throwing away jobs here in Finland. In other words, to some extent there is a strange discord that the foreign population is considered to come here to take advantage of Finnish social security and laziness, to take advantage of it, and at the same time they take jobs. In other words, as Mr Harakka said yesterday, this problem must be resolved in what respect it is, unless the problem is what I am afraid it is about foreigners, that it is a matter of having some distinguishing factor in humanity, that people have a different background from those people who, in the cycle of creation, are placed on the continental plate and who have made it a border of a nation state so sacred that crossing that border is a criminal act. This is an unimaginable phenomenon. This will be considered in a hundred years’ time, as the slave trade is thought of today or the witch hunts of the Middle Ages. There have been such phenomena, and we have people who become outlaws because they seek better conditions for living in another society. In this respect, we have a place for growth, and in this respect this budget, which has now been built,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u51	Mr President! In the previous speech, I remember Mr Kempp in the centre, Mr Laukkanen, whom I know as a very honest person, has in some way distorted the fact that this budget does not help the situation of the poorest. I want to get back to this. I talked about this before. The Left has Mr Pekonen, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, who, I believe, is responsible for income support, and a few days ago, Johannes Yrttiaho, the left-wing MP, pointed out here that the poorest were forgotten in the draft budget. He's a member of the government. He means that these tax reductions and tax compensations, which have been made, do not apply to people receiving income support who are generally the poorest, because income support is a last resort benefit. Mr Laukkanen is not here at the moment, but I just wanted to say that he is obviously not wrong here, and I do not think that the Minister has denied this in his reply. Of this budget in general: If we look at the whole, then it is worrying that, as the Minister for Finance has said, this is a deficit of 2 billion and we are implementing a part, namely 1 billion, of state property — I do not yet know what — by selling. I am afraid and I am concerned to see what will happen, because in the previous period, when the SDP, the Greens and the Left were in the government and when state property was sold, then Caruna left. That is probably what we are quite agreed in this Chamber that it was not going to be a perfect deal, it will be a huge amount of feedback. Such things should be considered really, really carefully. Similarly, officials from the Ministry of Finance are very concerned that there are not enough employment measures. They note that the measures currently agreed will not solve this gap that has been made by expenditure. There are a lot of good contributions — at least I think so — to the courts, to pensioners and much more, but this is about the sustainability gap and how we will be able to make enough money in the future, not just for a year or two, so that the next government will be able to think again about where the money comes from, as can be seen, for example, with regard to the funding of carers. There was talk of humanity and immigration in the previous speech. It is quite understandable that people are moving, but the second question is the economy of the host country and their sovereignty in the sense that they are prepared to use their own tax money to make other people want to exercise their freedom of movement. I thought that in January 2019 this kind of TEM survey on immigration has been published. Eurostat statistics are available there and, for example, it states that ‘the employment of people born outside the EU in Finland is lower than the EU average in other Nordic countries’. This is a very interesting question. Similarly, it is stated here that ‘the income level in families with foreign background is lower than the population’. This has been the subject of a study in 2014 on taxable income of people with foreign background, which was on average 21400 and slightly over, while for those with Finnish background it was 30,000, which means that it has almost 9000 euros. That is what is at stake in this service relationship. We're in a crisis of care for the elderly. We need money there. How can our economy cope with it if people come to live in social aid and low-wage sectors, which may likely further weaken the wages of other people working for us? That's what this big picture is all about. Concernedly, of course, I am following those fuel increases, which provide tremendous feedback from people, small entrepreneurs. They say that they then have to put it on billing, which weakens their sales. Likewise, of course, their situation is worsened by the fact that the household allowance is being calculated. Here we were on the radio, and Minister Harakka admitted that this is a savings law, this cut is a saving that the state needs more money. Then there is one thing I am really concerned about: we have talked about agriculture and self-sufficiency. The budget book states that the financing of the agricultural development funds will be reduced and that it will be very
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u52	Mr President! I would have answered this a little — although I cannot answer on behalf of the government, as a representative of the Government Party, I can answer the questions put by Mrs Mere. First thing about this Caruna store: I can't agree with you more than that. This was, of course, an absurd sale, but, above all, the absurdity is that this is a strategic industry, and it is incredible that we can sell this to foreign investors. Of course, this is about looking in the mirror for everyone who's been involved in it. The second point was whether the government programme and the budget have taken into account the poorest people in Finland at this point, and this is the specific question of income support. In this regard, the Minister replied quite clearly yesterday when he said that this level of income support has not now been addressed because it is the last guarantee. The government is now interfering in the fact that it is not necessary to rely on the last security, i.e. to do everything possible to develop these other support schemes, which confirm that people will not have to rely on this income support. So the resources are invested in not being driven into it. That was the Minister's answer. But then this issue of immigration, when you raised it again and brought up the immigrant population. Statistically, there are problems: the employment rate is lower, i.e. unemployment is higher among the immigrant population than the average, income levels are also lower, there are other phenomena which are clearly lower than the average population. That's right. If we had some other groups, people with mental health problems, people with disabilities — we have a wide range of criteria with which we have vulnerable groups of people in society — then there is no doubt that the wounded position would then be reflected in these phenomena. It is not a counterargument — or it is not an argument at all — that in any case people have freedom of movement and freedom to search for living conditions, and, in principle, the immigrant population, if anything wants to become part of Finnish society as quickly as possible, integrate into it and get work, jobs. That is why they often take on the least-paid, least-respected jobs in order to become part of this society, and the net effect is clear. The net effect is clear. We know that migration in a holistic way has a more positive net effect, even more economically positive, than a negative effect. In other words, the overall impact is positive, despite the fact that yes, it is a vulnerable population that we have to work for: language skills first, training to integrate them more closely into this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u53	Mr President! I myself would like to take up some of the comments which Mr Meri has made with merit. I fully agree that the Ministry of Finance should be listened to, and the estimates that the Ministry of Finance is doing with official responsibility, whatever they are giving us, should be taken seriously by us politicians, and to such an extent that, for example, these employment measures, which are now being presented by the government, are not enough. I agree with that. They are not enough. This government has undertaken that next year we will increase employment measures and we will see that 30 000 new jobs will be created at first. But at the same time as we take this message from the Finance Department's officials with the seriousness they deserve, we should also listen to the message when the Finance Department proves that 70 per cent of Finns' income levels will improve next year — that is to say, it will improve by 70 per cent of Finns — and only in the highest income deciles can the income level be slightly reduced as a result of the government's decisions. As far as these low incomes are concerned, certainly the government, as Mr Kiljunen here testified, is investing in low incomes. Among other things, the single parent increase will rise by EUR 10 per month, the maintenance allowance will rise by EUR 7 per month, the full amount of national pension will rise by EUR 31 and the guarantee pension by EUR 50 per month. At the same time, Kela's resources will be strengthened by less than EUR 40 million. And while, quite rightly, there is concern about where the growth in the future will come from, it is this government that believes in education, and the higher the level of education it usually correlates with income and quality of life, in which the government invests EUR 40 million in the capitalisation of universities and EUR 20 million in universities of applied sciences. As far as this rural development fund is concerned, or the fact that the money is being reduced in rural areas, I would be happy to hear what this is based on. It is precisely the rural development fund that is capitalised on EUR 31 million in the budget, which creates opportunities for projects and investment grants specifically for rural areas, so I would like to hear more about what this argument was based on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u54	Mr President! For this week we have had a debate on next year's budget, that yellow book, and it is rather sad to think of the tough decisions and even the tight savings of the last period, that there are so many things that are clearly promised but that we do not recognise whether we can afford all this. If you think about next season's budget, it will be largely based on the increase in employment and the increase in employment to 75%, and certainly it will be the whole Chamber, if you look at the 200 MPs in Parliament, the joint hope and the goal of getting employment. After all, last season employment rose from around 68 to 72, and since then it has hardly increased. In this initial debate on the budget, Mr Lintilä, the Minister for Finance, said that the economic policy of the Rinte government has three main points: one clearly concerns the improvement of employment; the other is the reform of businesses and support for investment; and the third is the consolidation of public finances. How is the level of employment forecasted for this budgetary plan to develop over the coming years? The Ministry of Finance predicts that the number of working-age people would decrease by 23,000 persons. If we think that we are now at a good 72 and even if new jobs are not created, our employment rate, according to the Ministry of Finance forecast, would rise to 73.3% — even if the number of employed persons did not increase and therefore the new income base would not come at all. In other words, the employment rate in our society has been a good indicator because we have had quite a constant number of people employed, but we all know what is the basis of our demographic structure at the moment: the number of so-called small age groups in relation to the large age groups will be reduced and therefore the number of working age groups will also be reduced. So, personally, I am concerned, of course, that next year's budget will have an increase of EUR 2 billion, a borrowing, but also that it will be based on an increase in the employment rate. According to the VM's own forecasts, even if there are no more jobs, employment will rise to that 73.3, but it will not help or make it easier on our income base. That is what I wanted to share with you on this issue of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u56	Mr President! I would like to respond to the recent questioner where this rural development reduction money can be found, that this can be found in this state budget proposal on page Y42. It states that the budget for rural development will be reduced by EUR 7.4 million, or EUR 456.3 million, so right here in the book I will read it — if there is a mistake — that the total money will fall. And that is a shame, because it is stated here that this money is intended to increase the vitality of rural areas. Well, let's hope it's compensated for somewhere. But here it really is. That's where I've been watching it. And the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, who raised it at one of the sittings, also spoke highly of it. I found it quite interesting that Mr Kiljunen's idea that this net effect is clear on immigration. Of course, we need to identify different groups, and then I would like to see the studies from which you take them quite genuinely, because you said it was a positive whole. This includes housing allowances, income support, health care, integration costs, interpreters, various kinds of subsidies. I was thinking that you said that it was positive when, of course, there was a consensus among legal practitioners that, in certain groups with foreign background, for example, sexual offences were over-represented. Now I would like to see where I can find this, that this is a positive whole, or are these just feelings now? What I really want is some scientific research on this and not opinions, and that is what I myself relied on in my own speeches because, for example, our chairman, Halla-aho, has been talking about these for years, but he was laughing at it, but when it started to become research, so many people said that it was true that Mrs Halla-aho was right. Now I want some research from the representative that this whole is indeed positive. And then you said that this is the case for everyone who is vulnerable. That is the case, but the question is that when we already have problems in the service relationship and when we want to provide services already in Finland and services to Finns — care for the elderly, care for the disabled, mental health services that they have earned — we do not have the money if we take more than tens or hundreds of thousands of people here all the time. It doesn't have to be a very big mathematical talent to understand that it's not just enough money.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u57	Mr President! I didn't mean to talk about immigration as such...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u60	Mr President! I came to this toilet because there were three big questions here, all of which have little like prejudices, which it is good to open through statistics. The three issues were: the crime of the foreign population and its role; the other is that we are in debt; we cannot afford — there is also one big illusion — and the third is the problem of the deterioration of the dependency ratio in general, to which reference has been made, which is a complete illusion. I want to open these, if you can, in this five minutes — it may not be. But first of all, let us take this problem of the foreign population. First of all, of course, it must be borne in mind that the traditional expression is ‘the lie,the base lies statistics’,and why,in fact,it is a matter of time. When talking about the foreign population as a whole, we must remember that the largest group of foreign immigrants is Swedish, then the following Estonians, Russians and the EU as a whole. This is the whole thing we have to see when it comes to the foreign population. Admittedly, we also have refugees who come from very difficult societies, difficult conditions, and they are certainly a cost burden, and there is a cost burden on society. These are people who are in need of protection, and we are committed internationally to the fact that if a person lives in a vulnerable situation, i.e. does not receive protection from his own country or is about to become a victim of human rights violations, then the civilised states, under the Geneva Convention, will provide that protection. This also applies to Finns if it happens to be the other way around. So this is the starting point, and it is undeniably a cost burden for us. But then this crime: It is quite true that according to statistics, the foreign population, which is roughly 3.5 per cent of Finns at the moment — that is, 3.5 per cent of Finns with a foreign background — commits 11 per cent of the crimes. But here's the illusion. When it is said that a population with a foreign background commits 11% of crimes in Finland, it does not only include what Mr Meri referred to here, i.e. immigrants living in Finland, but also tourists. This is the biggest group of tourists. If it were to be cleared of foreigners temporarily in the country, the relative proportion would fall to 4.2 per cent. In relation to the fact that there are 3.5% of them, the difference is not very large. Undoubtedly, in sexual crimes, they account for 25% of the population with foreign background. It is, of course, a particular problem in a vulnerable situation for people, and there are sexual crimes committed abroad, including Finns, in relation to more than in Finland — exactly the same phenomenon. Sweden is a good example: Sweden has 2 per cent of the population with Finnish background. Finns commit crimes in Sweden at a level of more than 4%. It is also the same phenomenon that most of these people from Finnish background are those who are tourists there, and this is the same phenomenon behind it. In Sweden it could be said that Finns are far more criminal than Swedes on average, in assessing these statistics. I repeat: lies, lies, statistics. Look inside and you'll see the phenomenon more closely. Then this question of money, whether debt is the problem. Here Mr Talvitie pointed out that during the last term of the government the policy of austerity, strict budgetary discipline, was dominant. Yes, it has been dominant in Finland for almost 20 years, it has been dominant in Europe for nearly 20 years. Now that direction has been changed, this government changed direction. That is what I said in the first speech today that the paradigm has now finally changed, not only in Finland, but also in Europe. This is seen the other way around, that is to say, this fiscal strangulation policy, the aim of which is, in fact, to market-compatibility — it was the ideological content behind it — has led us to continue to drop this level. And it is done in all countries: it is done in countries that have little debt, it is done in countries that have much debt. And surprise, Finland is one of those countries that have little debt. We only have three countries in Europe that meet the EMU criteria. The EMU criteria are, of course, that the budget deficit is 3% of GDP and that public debt is 60% of GDP. There are three countries that meet these EMU criteria, only three countries: Estonia, Luxembourg and Finland — Finland, of course, thanks to pension funds and so on. In other words, our public finances are in surplus as a whole, not in deficit. And when you take the net debt ratio in the world and bring pension funds into what you have to include, in fact, Finland is the fourth least net debt country in the world. There are above Qatar, Norway and Saudi Arabia, and then there is Finland. Look at the statistics, the World Bank statistics. You see that Finland has an exceptionally small public debt, and yet we have been pursuing the same strangling policy here, an economic discipline policy, as in countries with a serious problem. I don't want to. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u61	Yeah, let's see. — There a few Members are trying to debate, but there is an opportunity to ask for the floor, not to go to the debatation now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u62	Mr President! I will return to this agricultural and forestry policy to the extent that the total budget for that administrative sector will therefore increase next year – the budget for the administrative sector will increase in 2020 compared to 2019. But what Mr Meri said about the investment side, I'd be happy to take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u66	Mr President! It is true that there is room for what is considered to be affordable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u69	Mr President! I was now trying to listen to the statistics that would have had this overall effect, which Mrs Kiljunen said, but I did not see it. I listened carefully, and at first I started putting it up, but then you found out whether it was now the largest number of employees or job seekers in Finland or some from Sweden, but I looked now,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u72	Your Honor! President! — — — — This is so hard for me today, clearly. Excuse me, Your Honor. I do not know — we have discussed these in other circles with Mrs Kiljunen before — but it seems that all economists and economic experts in Finland and officials from the Ministry of Finance have quite different statistics than Mr Kiljune.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u75	Mr Multala, we have exactly the same statistics available, and the only question is what we are counting and what we are not counting. If only the finances of municipalities and central government are counted in public finances, we are definitely in deficit, this was not the case. But we have been building this economy in such a way that we have shifted the focus of taxation — if we also take occupational pension contributions into taxation — so that, in the 1990s, when they were paid in the primary form of income taxes, today, in the amount of wages we pay taxes, these social insurance policies are increasingly important and they go into the funds, they are funded all the time. And it is calculated as a public social fund according to the EU, with more than EUR 210 billion in pension companies. If they are calculated according to this public finances, as they are calculated in international statistics when figures are made for net debt rates, then we have a whole other world in front of us. We're moving this money out all the time. This EUR 150 billion has been invested abroad, and this money is not at all in the Finnish economy. Even their interest rates are not used on pensions, as should be the case. This is the huge problem. We've been saving, saving, saving pension money. At one time they were to be used specifically for the retirement of the baby-boom age groups, but they have not been used for it, and they are rising interest rates, and they are not used for anything in practice. A very small proportion, 800 million in the last three years, has been spent on interest rates of 8 billion. Funds increase by an average of EUR 8 billion, with a budget deficit of EUR 2 billion. Look at this whole thing that's going on in this economy. We can see exactly what the Ministry of Finance says from the corner of government finances. But then comes this big question, in which I absolutely agree with Mrs Talvitie, and we all agree: of course, the big challenge in Finland is raising employment rates and creating jobs. We all aim for it because the welfare society depends on it. You are right that the employment rate also reflects the reduction in the number of people of working age in relation to the so-called passive population, which is not of working age. Yes, but it's not the whole truth. Look at the working-age population: this is an artificial definition that has now been taken, and we are told through the dependency ratio that we have a passive population that is the people under the age of 15 and over the age of 65. The active population is between 15 and 65 years of age, and by the way there are schoolchildren involved, students involved, and we are studying longer and longer. As we know at the moment about the employment rate, we now have almost a third of the population — not just a third of the population now, fortunately — which is of working age but outside the labour force, and part of it is inevitably outside the labour force. This number of people of working age, which we all take care of when talking about the dependency ratio, is an artificial calculation pattern. The increase in the employment rate is not just a question of this definition of the proportion of the working-age population, but I am constantly challenging it so that we must increase the employment rate of the population over the age of 65. There are already more than 100,000 people in paid employment among those over 65. If precise figures are taken from the dependency ratio, the dependency ratio with the criterion used has deteriorated. At the moment we have 60 so-called passive people in relation to 100 people of working age, and it has been calculated that 2070, if the population structure develops as it develops, the age groups develop as they evolve, this figure is over 80. That is a genuine criterion that will cause us difficulties when the number of people of working age is lower. But which one of you imagines that in 2070 we still count the working-age population from 15 to 65? We can raise that year to 2120, or one hundred years, and I can assure you that there will already be more than 100 working-age people in relation to those who are outside the working-age population. After all, when the average life expectancy is between 110 and 130 years, we will no longer be told that 65 years is the age limit after which you will no longer be of working age. There is one person speaking here who belongs to the passive population for the Finnish economy. I am a passive population in terms of the statistical dependency ratio, and there are many of us. This crowd is just getting bigger. So let us take a real look at this whole thing, and that is why I was challenging this question that we are just on this old jargon and we are not seeing what the situation is. It must have been right to say, 50 years ago, that from 15 to 65 years old the working-age population is a working-age population, but today it is no longer a realistic figure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u76	Your Honor! I would like to refer this debate back to these very big facts, namely that public finances are not balanced by this government programme, this draft budget. Of course, it contains a lot of good things, but the burden of debt is increasing, public sector expenditure is increasing, public deficits are increasing, tax wedges are growing — tax wedges. Finland’s main competitive disadvantage, an obstacle to employment and a brake on the purchasing power of citizens is precisely this huge tax wedge. It is now quite clear that if we have a more indebted people and public finances, this will be a big problem for us. If we consider what the government is doing now, it will do nothing to reduce the tax wedge, no. Finland will not be saved by it, as has actually been pointed out here, even if the employment rate is raised to 75; it is still not enough if we cannot narrow this tax wedge down. As a result, we are constantly weak in the purchasing power of wages, and it continues to weaken with government measures. Effectiveness of employment measures: we do not know about this. It has become very clear to us that these, your long list, can have some effects, can do something — we have no guarantee of that. Of course, we all hope that a balanced economy will be achieved. But on this central question of the tax wedge, I have not received an answer from the ministers. There is no answer, no measures to reduce it or proper, active actions. They can't be found here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u77	Mr President! Of course, we can discuss calculation methods and other things here, but when the fact is that if expenditure is higher than income, then debt is taken — point. And that is what will, as it were, decide here when we look at this budget. Of course, the second option is to increase taxes, and now, of course, this government is doing both. But in any case, this is the kind of thing that counts. Finland has agreed on how to calculate this government deficit or surplus in general. And in my opinion, there are not very many Members of Parliament in this Chamber who would disagree — but at least one can be found. As far as our pension system is concerned, I understand that there is also a very broad consensus in this House: this is the kind of system that this is, in other words, a system that is partly funded. In other words, it is not the case that the old age groups have paid their own pensions as if they had paid their own pensions, but that the current employees are paying a share, a large part, of pensions for current pensioners. So it cannot be considered that the funds referred to by Mrs Kiljunen in foreign funds are some kind of money that could be used to pay pensions for current pensioners. The responsibilities are so great at the moment that, on the contrary, the question arises when the birth rate falls and the employment rate does not increase, whether our pension system will last as it is in the future, or whether we will have to make further changes to it, either increase pension contributions or extend the retirement age further. I fully agree that it is also important for employment that people over the age of 65, or even those over the age of 63.8 who are retired, should be able to work. That's a good thing. In fact, according to the current retirement age of my generation, it will work until the age of 70 — if I have looked at the chart correctly. So this is, as it were, an important question, how people who are retired or on part-time pensions are still able to work and that it is also worthwhile for them. But that is quite another question than the way in which our pension system is calculated as part of this public finances and their balance. Perhaps to the end of this employment rate. As Mrs Talvitie has well described, an increase in employment rates alone is no longer enough at this stage when we know that our birth rate has steadily deteriorated. There are already more age groups that are smaller than others. Nor do we have the kind of foreign labour force that, as it were, compensates for this deficit. And that is why we need all the other means, i.e. more jobs and more work efficiency.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u78	Mr President! At this time of night, it is now nice to debat this budget with and in consultation with people who also understand the economy and especially the Finnish economy. I would see that for a week now we have been debating how much we agree on how to spend EUR 55 billion and how little we disagree about how we spend EUR 2 billion. This is primarily the case. And with this EUR 2 billion in this budget, the government has decided to invest in certain sectors which have been cut a lot in the past and which this government now feels can no longer be cut off from, and if not invested in them now, it is only because of the inflation that will result from the loss of prosperity that will cause an even greater fall, especially for future generations. So here is the value debate on this EUR 2 billion, which is taking place here. And then the second question relates directly to this welfare issue. This government has decided that investment in education, nature conservation, the environment, climate investment — partly debt money — will result in a slight improvement in welfare in Finland, for all future generations. And this debate is about this welfare repaying itself, because there are people who are capable of working, young people who are able and able to do well in education, innovation, these things of the future, so that they are really able to pay the debt burden, to reduce the debt burden that Finland is taking in this budget. And then there's the third point. Here is this kind of value debate, which has also been going on all the time in this budget debate. And that is because this government has decided that it does not, for example, place this matter of income support as a pledge that if a person cannot afford a better place to live, he would be thrown out of the apartment by threatening to cut his income support. People have been given the impression, as I have read in the Employment Paper of the Coalition Party, that this income support would be cut if a person did not move into a cheaper dwelling. In a sparsely populated country, as in Finland, it would mean that even children would be moved to another school, possibly to another place, far away from those familiar circles. And in the capital region, that kind of moving is really difficult, because there are only so few homes and the prices are so high.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u79	Mr President! I will come back to the debate a few hours ago where Mr Satonen visited the government to thank the programme for the fact that the money that has now been invested is the right thing to do, but there is always the part of the speech that there is still too little and too much money for something when there is no money for it. I find it rather grotesque to criticise the fact that we are now putting basic education, early education, on the pretext that we are in the world in a situation where it may be that the trade war, the situation in the Middle East, the Brexes can rock the Finnish state economy, perhaps the whole of Europe. Should we therefore now have had to refrain from doing what families with children, low-income pensioners need to do to live in this country? We cannot fail to do that and continue to implement the cutting policy of the previous government, which targeted precisely these groups, for which Mr Satonen also thanked Mr Satonen for the correct allocation of the money that has been put into them. Nor can we know from here what is happening in the labour market situation. When drawing up the government programme and budget, the government cannot anticipate and refrain from doing something because it is coming into the post-Kiki labour market autumn. The government cannot take responsibility in advance for what may happen, but the policy of this government has been to do what needs to be done to ensure that people have a better future. When we are accused of being made with debt money, and Mrs Zyskowicz, in her interlude, gives the impression that we are now stealing from children, we have to ask whether those who have little should now be given even worse qualifications and not that they are better off in this society than they are now, perhaps, at some age groups with low education. This is precisely what needs to be made possible when our age groups are getting smaller, for these small age groups and future children, for future adults who bear responsibility for this by collecting their own professional skills, with their entrepreneurship the state finances for which social services are paid. These conditions must be created, even with debt money, so that they can live in this country and bring well-being to other citizens. I do not know how long this negative interest rate — which is in fact a good option for the national economy if we are still paid for it — will continue, certainly not into the future, and that can be a great bubble, but we cannot expect that this will happen, so that we do nothing about the fact that there is pensioner poverty and there is no subjective family day care in this country. But this government has. I don't know how to take a better position on the pension debate. I just want to thank the representative. Scream about that vision that I'm sure cleared up. I would have liked to have had a little more people to hear the strong speech. Of course, as far as women are concerned, it must be said that Mr Multala is right to anticipate, but let us hope that this government will have a common view with us and, I would say, with the Coalition Party that we need a reform of the family leave which will help women in the labour market. It is very important, and I believe that we in the Left Alliance and in the Assembly share this common view that we do not need this country to have a nine-year woman out of work to take care of her children at home, for example. Yeah, families need to be able to choose how they do it, but our system must not feed on the fact that when they are professional graduates, it is very difficult to get back to work when that professional competence has disappeared during that period and you have no evidence of success in working life for seven years or nine years. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u80	Mr President! Here another outcast appears — if you use the terms used earlier. I wanted the representatives of Talvitie and Multala to tell me again and get on with it, that although I may have told you a bit of surprising angles, we do of course agree on big issues. We fully agree with Mrs Talvitie that job creation is a top priority in this society, thereby also increasing the employment rate. No matter how we measure it now, that's what we have to invest in, that's quite clear. Of course, work is not only important to the state economy, but it is also a source of livelihood for people as well as the route of creation, which means that we are part of society through it. And I fully agree with Mr Multala: neither private finances nor public finances can be managed in such a way that expenditure is higher than income, which must be balanced in some respects. That's the right angle. If we are talking about purely central government finances, and I shall now forget this other general government, to which I referred in these pension funds — of which I will say two words in a moment — there will also be both revenue and expenditure for central government, there will be both those sections. We are constantly paying attention to the fact that expenditure, expenditure, expenditure, must be reduced if there is no balance. The second strand is income, and this government programme has left it — and if we are talking about the election programme of the Socialist Party, it was even more ambitious — that the tax base should be extended. That's the extension of the tax base, isn't it? There must be no tightening of taxes on earned income — we have taken far too much of society to tax labour on the use of labour — but this tax base should be broadened. And one of the sectors in which the expansion of the tax base must, of course, be done at some point is the largest commodity that is traded the most and most badly taxed, i.e. the financial sector. There are no indirect taxes on money trading, there are no indirect taxes on all other transactions. I am not going to open this theme, Mr President, but I say that the expansion of the tax base is, of course, the big thing we have to do. There will then be these grey economies and tax havens and the whole of this big theory which has been going on, but the taxation of money trading should, of course, be placed heavily on the political agenda. This gives us the strength to reduce the tax burden on labour. But then these pension funds and the pension issue. The earnings-related pension scheme was created in the 1960s, but if we take it from 95 onwards, when this famous folded index was introduced — that is to say, which legally impoverishes pensioners — and when the funds amounted to EUR 36 billion, today it is over EUR 200 billion, 210 billion. Their gross domestic product share has risen from 38% of GDP to over 90% at present, to almost 100%. We are in a situation where we are increasing these pension reserves at an absurd rate. And when you referred to the fact that it is a single currency for all age groups, a common saving, it is. No one says that it is some age group money, but Tela estimates that 65% of these pension reserves are actually savings for current pensioners and those who have just retired. 20% are born in the 60s, 11% are born in the 70s and 4% are born in the 80s to 90s. This is the proportion by which they can be viewed when you look at the age group's money there. Of course, young people have not yet been in employment and have been able to pay that money for those funds. It's a case of previous generations. And what is most problematic about this is that no recourse has been made to these funds by 2015. They grew both through earnings-related pension contributions and through interest-bearing investments and others. They were not paid in net transfers at all. Until 2015, earnings-related pension contributions had always covered the total pension expenditure, and the funds only grew untouchable. Since then, their interest income has been spent on an average of EUR 800 million per year up to this year, but the funds have grown by an average of EUR 8 billion every year for the past 20 years. This is what I am talking about when I talk about deficits and surpluses in all public finances. We preserve, preserve, preserve in the trusts. You referred to these pension liabilities. It is calculated at EUR 700 billion and is an artificial figure. There is no single insurance institution that calculates its entire expenses through it. Fire insurance premiums are not paid on the basis that it is known that if everything returned, it would be paid. To date, these funds have not been used for pensions, nor even for interest, nor will they be used in the future. The working population of future generations will also pay for its actual pension expenditure. The funds have been a buffer which was originally supposed to be a buffer with a two-year pension cost of around EUR 50-60 billion in current money. We have built an absurd capital pile in Finland, which grows unharmed by interest rates, we are drying up our national economy in these pension funds, and that money has been transferred abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u81	Mr President! Quite a week in the back of each of us. It's early Friday night. For my own well-being, I was just there running a jogging and, in a certain way, hoping for a sporty and physical way of life for all of us in this house. That is why I am extremely grateful to the government for the fact that there is an investment in physical activity and that it is understood that sports lifestyles are learned at a relatively young age. But on the subject, that is to say, to a larger Finland. We can be bigger in many different areas than we are, but one example I would like to raise is the economy and the other countries in Europe as an example of how to raise revenue before expenditure comes. This is perhaps the image that I would also like the Finnish Government to raise a little more strongly, and in that respect, criticism of the opposition from us is certainly justifiable. Let me take a bad example, which I hope no one will mind. At one time in Greece, people had such a good feeling, and then in the next few decades, the people were no longer so good — but it now did not join Finland, it was just such a loose example. But seriously, times are a little challenging, and you have to notice it here. We have a trade war between China and the United States going on all the time. According to the latest reports, Brexit is very unclear, and the possible effects will be very significant. The situation in the Middle East has now been discussed for a couple of days for a reason and for the shocking betrayal of confidence that has taken place there. Perhaps this is why I would like to see such a responsible attitude towards the government's finances. I also want to go from the whole world's thinking to my constituency in South-East Finland. South-East Finland suffers from people moving out. The main reason for this is certainly the number of jobs and the opportunity to work, and in that sense I also have little criticism of the government's lack of employment measures. It is true that employment measures are certainly the best regional policy that we support, for example, a region that has suffered from structural change such as south-east Finland. If we go to a smaller one, it is regrettable that I did not get the opportunity to ask Ville Skinner, Minister for Development and Foreign Trade, about the importance of investing in a very important future, the Chinese rail link, and the possibility of how the government can help and support the strengthening of this link, and about the negotiations that the government could hope for in this context. At the end of the day, however, it is extremely important to remember that Finland lives through strong foreign policy, active cooperation, albeit larger in size, and I hope that we will be able to be very diplomatic in the negotiations at both EU and global level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u82	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u83	Mr President! Here, with colleagues, some thought was given to whether these Rules of Procedure have been properly considered — this is more than a point of order. There are a lot of big things here, but they have been put in this Friday night at the end of this budget debate. After all, this budget debate could have stretched almost into the night. So we've been thinking about this the right way? I would like to hear reasons for putting such a big, important agenda for discussion at this time, when, in fact, Parliament is clearly not here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u84	Yes, Mrs Kiljunen, on these issues, on this too, there has been an opportunity to debate this week many evenings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u85	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u86	Mr President! I understand what this is all about: these are budgetary laws, and that is why this is the correct remark from you that these issues have already been discussed. This is one of the laws on which I am particularly pleased that we are investing. Here we are going to start with the smallest pensions and the raising of them to transport, and then there is the big goal that the government has set itself, that an increase of EUR 100 should be made to all pensioners who receive less than EUR 1400 per month. Here's the first step. I now understand that these are the budget laws that are being discussed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-11-ps-49.u87	Great, it's very good that at this point we understand what's going on, great.
