ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u2	Congressman Slunga-Poutsalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u3	Mr President! All of us who have children know how the arrival of the first child will bring joy and joy, but also a large list of expensive purchases. A large part of these purchases can be reused at the time of the birth of the next child, such as seats, cribs and prams. Thus, having the first child can easily be seen as an economic challenge. According to Statistics Finland's data, the average number of children in families with children was 1.85 at the end of last year. Of all families with children, 13 per cent were three children, and only 5 per cent of families with children had at least four children under the age of 18. So I ask Minister Kiuru: why does the government only raise child benefit for the fourth child? Should we not raise child benefit for the first child if we want to support families with children and encourage Finnish families to have children?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u4	Mr President! As noted here, families clearly have a great concern for their livelihood no matter what the size of the family. But since your question is specifically about benefits and the proposal for this, which has been distributed to Parliament and which is on Minister Pekonen's property, I will try to be brief in my answer. I note that all families certainly share the same concern for livelihood, but in this case it has been considered that those with many children in the family are particularly concerned. For the rest, I shall now refrain from taking any further positions on the matter on the property of Minister Pekonen, but the concern about livelihoods for families is obvious and, of course, that is also what is being taken care of in this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u5	Now I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u6	Mr President! Based on the population projection published by Statistics Finland at the turn of the month, we should consider how positively we would encourage families to have children. The government budget bill next year will pile clouds up in the everyday life of a normal family. Mobility, housing costs and the price of electricity threaten to rise, even if you try to convince them otherwise. The personal economy and uncertainty about the adequacy of work are one of the reasons given for postponing the intention to have children. The True Finns propose to refund the child allowance in support of the tax deduction for families with children. It would support the economy of families with children and strengthen the feeling that children are wanted in our society. So I ask Minister Kiuru: do you see the possible positive effects of child reduction on the welfare of families so that you can take this forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u8	Mr President! Of course, that child allowance alone is linked to the big picture of the Ministry of Finance, and now that the Minister of Finance is not here, I will refrain from taking a stand on it, but I say to you, as a representative, that I myself have, in my day, supported this child reduction policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u11	Mr President! As a deputy to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance is also absent, perhaps I can make a few comments on this important issue raised by Mr Slunga-Poutsalo. Of course, poverty among families with children is a very sad and sad thing in the Nordic welfare society, and this government is also working against it. If we consider, for example, the increase in child allowances for families with many children, when we know that poverty in families with children is divided particularly among single parents and families with many children, it is very important for the government to raise child allowances for families with many children and, at the same time, for example, to improve the position of single parents. Of course, it must be remembered that this issue of child allowance has also been discussed in Parliament during the previous parliamentary term. At the time, the Committee on Finance took the view that it was a rather challenging tax model to implement, but it is very important that different options continue to be discussed to prevent child poverty. Here are a few things that the government promotes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u12	Mr President! Helsingin Sanomat has just published an opinion from a woman who feels sad that she may never become a grandmother. The author's child is married, but the couple don't want to have children. The writer tells us that when someone you know tells you that you have a grandchild, you think of envy, sadness, and a feeling of lack of participation. Let the article be a reminder to us decision makers. We should make a political change in Finland and really start encouraging children. We could decide to make Finland the best country in the world for families with children. For example, child benefit could be increased from the first child. A family of at least two children could receive a government-supported loan. Women who gave birth to three children could be exempt from income tax altogether. At the very least, children's deduction should be returned to taxation in accordance with the requirement of the Finnish Basic Finns. My question is: could the government make a family policy that encourages children its top priority?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u13	Mr President! I believe that Parliament as a whole has taken it with the strong will that a child's strategy will be drawn up together in parliamentary preparation and as set out in this question. Let us seek out the concrete measures that will lead to Finns' perception that every child in this country is appreciated and that every child is dear to us and we will do everything in our power for these children. I therefore believe that the strategy for children will certainly give us all the opportunity to be involved in getting that big line. As noted here, in order to reduce the poverty of families with children, benefits have been raised especially for single parents but also for families with multiple children. However, it must also be noted that the poverty of many families with children is typically caused by the lack of education of the guardian and hence by the low income level, the change in working life and, possibly, by unemployment and a variety of problems in families that have not been supported by services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u14	Mr President! Making Finland the most child-friendly society in the world is definitely a common goal for all of us. Of course, in addition to questions related to the livelihood of families with children, the services of families with children must also be examined and their functioning examined. In that regard, the budget for next year has a lot of happy news for families with children. Among other things, the group sizes of early childhood education will be reduced, which will have a very big impact on the quality of early childhood education, and the equal right of all Finnish children to early childhood education will also be restored. Another major reform, which will be carried out during this parliamentary term and which will also have an impact on the family economy, is to make secondary education completely free of charge for all Finnish students. It is a big investment in the rights of Finnish students to learn, which also brings relief to the financial situation of families.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u15	The Centre and the Greens had also announced this topic as their own question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u16	Congressman Kivisaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u17	President! The Parliamentary Group of the Centre Party has today proposed that Parliament should hold a topical debate on the construction of a more pro-child and family-friendly Finland. And I take pleasure in the feeling that Parliament has the capacity and will for this debate. President! The serious problem, as we have said, is the poverty of families with children. Every seven children have to live in poverty. The aim must therefore be to eliminate the poverty of families with children, as our chairman, Mrs Kulmuni, has said. In line with the central objectives, the budget will increase the lowest parental allowances and child allowances for the poorest families. This is the right policy. However, families also need more everyday help. Are you, Minister Kiuru, prepared to extend, for example, the activities of family centres in every municipality and to increase family home assistance?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u18	Mr President! Now that we are in the same government, one can say that together we are very united in the fact that poverty in families with children should be reduced. Not only by investing in benefits, which have already been dealt with here, but also on the services side. I agree that many families would receive sufficient support to cope with everyday life when, on the services side, we would support families more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u21	Congressman Virta, Sofia.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u22	Mr President! No child should have to live in poverty, and no child should have to grow up without a home, yet many children do. Today we are celebrating the UN International Day for the Eradication of Poverty. Tonight we spend the night of the Homeless. Poverty and homelessness also affect families with children in Finland. Our welfare society cannot do this. Poverty experienced as a child leaves traces that can adversely affect the long future. Our main task for adults is to make sure that every child can grow up and develop safely — play, dream, learn — be children — because worrying about money is not the job of children. So I ask Minister Kiuru: how will this government ensure that every child in this country receives the support and services he needs to grow and develop safely?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u23	Mr President! In 2018, basic income was paid to nearly 57,000 families with children in this country. That is a great deal, because we know at the same time, as the questioner put it, that the fact is that the risks of exclusion may even be overgenerational. The difficult economic conditions of childhood may also carry them to adulthood and may even accumulate in the next generation. This way, if the childhood family has received long-term income support, children are likely to have lower education in adulthood, more likely to have mental health problems, teenage pregnancies and also their own income problems. It is therefore important to draw attention to the underlying factors of poverty in families with children, particularly those that might be raised by social policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u24	Mr President! Birth rates are falling in many Western countries, but in Finland the situation is more alarming than elsewhere. Our neighboring country Estonia has managed to reverse its critical birth rate development and the promotion of families with children is very wide-ranging. Family benefits for children have been significantly increased and have already passed some of Finland, even though the wage level is still clearly lower. Money does not solve the matter, but in part it would serve as a message that ordinary Finnish families are appreciated. A variety of pressures, starting with the fact that it is supposedly climate-friendly not to multiply, face young adults. The Estonian model is clearly different from Finland's policy, as is the whole atmosphere in which Estonians seem to be reflecting on these issues. My question to the government is: why not do an overall family reform that will clearly take into account Estonia's experience and also stop scaring young people's families with the climate effects of children?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u25	Mr President! Yes, this debate also shows well that surely if someone in the audience is thinking about starting a family, this debate too — in what way things are viewed in Parliament — will contribute to it. I myself think that it is in the interests of the whole of society that anyone who can reach the desired number of children should be able to do so. With such a simple thing as the provision of infertility treatments for next year, more and more people can already be signaled from here that every child is important and everyone should have the chance to have the desired number of children, but also the social debate will play a part in whether there is a commitment in Parliament to respect anyone who acquires children. It is very important that we have children and that we value both children and their families, and that is why, in the strategy for children, every political group can now take a stand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u26	Mr President! It is very good that this issue is being discussed here, and I think it is very good that we seem to have a cross-party consensus on the message that we want to make possible, as Minister Kiuru said, that everyone can reach out for the number of children they want. Secondly, it is also important in society to build land so that it is reasonably possible to reconcile work and family so that it does not become an obstacle. It is very important that the message is also that every child born in Finland is a valuable, positive gift to his family and, of course, to his/her family and to his/her own dignity, but also to the entire Finnish nation and society. These various benefits have been considered, and also the issues that can facilitate reconciliation between family and work, with the daily lives of the peak years. Many of us feel it on our own. One thing we are concerned about in this respect at the meeting is that in recent years, especially since the municipal childcare service has been changed so that there is less to bring home from such things, there is a household allowance
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u27	Mr President! Of course, when the economy is kept in balance,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u28	Mr President! Increases in child benefit should take effect immediately in the case of the first child. When the carrot is created in this way to increase the birth rate, the best possible conditions are created to increase the attractiveness of starting a family by reducing economic barriers. A well-functioning society must have sufficient jobs that do not have to rely on social assistance. Continuous negotiations and increasing uncertainty in working life further reduce the desire of young people to start a family. It is therefore particularly important to ensure that companies operating in Finland remain in Finland. If we tax more, the rest of the businesses and jobs will run away from here. Mr President! How does the government intend to attract young people to start a family in today’s uncertain economic environment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u29	Jahas, and I wonder if the Prime Minister's deputy, Minister Kulmuni.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u30	Mr President! The representative drew attention to a very important issue, such as labour shortages and how young families are currently experiencing a wide range of pressures in society. It would be terribly important to be able to make flexible use of the already existing family leave in working life, to encourage it and, of course, the young fathers, in particular, to dare to use the parental leave opportunities that already exist. Regrettably, a small proportion of our young fathers will eventually use them, and it would therefore be important that working life should also be adapted in a more permissive and flexible way in this respect. Of course, it is important for Finnish companies that they have a workforce available, and the situation is, at the moment, similar to the fact that many parts of the country are suffering from labour shortages, and this is of course very important for the government to be able to tackle the fact that there are factors in these companies, because at the moment the situation is very difficult in many metal workshops and other workplaces.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u31	Mr President! The livelihoods of families with children are affected, just as has been shown here in the debate, by the benefits and also by the services and, for example, by the opportunities the child has to engage in. At the time when the Christian Democrats were in the government, it was precisely this tax deduction for families with children, a reduction for children, [Department :Leverage! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u32	Mr President! As has been pointed out in this debate, in accordance with the Government Programme, the government has specifically targeted the most important measures to reduce poverty in families with children at the level of the budget for next year: improving the status of single parents, improving the position of parents studying, increasing the child allowance for families with multiple children. After all, the debate also has to do with the broad picture, of course, of how Finland would be an encouraging and good country for families in the future and not facing the concerns that many young families have at the moment. Of course, the best way of reducing the poverty of families with children is also that more and more parents get away with the job, so it is also important that employment policy and jobs are allowed to be used, especially for men — which is unfortunately not the case at the moment — so the debate on birth rates is also, to a great extent, a debate on the possibilities for young fathers to use family leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u33	Mr President! Infertility deeply touches those who cannot have a child. I know this from experience. There is no choice. It's not protected, no matter what the income is. This is not the group we're talking about here. Infertility treatments are heavy and also expensive, especially if you do not receive treatment in public health care. Minister Kiuru, you said that the government has some kind of investment in the treatment of infertility, and I ask you now: what does the government do in concrete terms for this group, so that they too can enjoy making treatments easier, perhaps more flexible than age limits, and their mental well-being would be taken into account, because infertility is a very sad and serious matter, and there seems to be very little effort to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u34	Mr President! I very much thank you for the way in which you put this question because you spoke on behalf of many people who do not have the opportunity to participate in these birth talks, which will certainly draw the skin between them — that who has and does not have the opportunity to participate. In this regard, I say that we should not frighten anyone, not accuse anyone or point the finger. Everyone in Finland is sure to play their part in enabling us to do better in terms of birth rates as a country. I think that your question was justified precisely because of the way in which we support it. I recognize it myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u35	Now the final question on this subject. — — — — The first question is asked by Mr Slunga-Poutsalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u36	Mr President! Talking about children in this Chamber is always important and worthy of support. However, the debate that has taken place has mainly focused on existing children and families with many children — but when we need those new children, the first children. Pressure is being placed on families to send their children to society to be raised, in the name of climate change, child-resistance is being fomented with the theme of ‘don't do nothing’, and parents with children are being held accountable for the state's economic state. The atmosphere is not very child-friendly. Mr Government, what steps are you actually taking to create a more pro-child atmosphere in society?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u37	Mr President! I personally think that the fact that there is a family minister in this government already points the way towards what is important. It should be remembered that in the EU Finland's birth rate has actually fallen most in this decade; in that respect, the issue is quite justified. But the phenomenon is not new. Look, we have provinces where the population has been falling for 19 years, and not much has been lost in the eye. I must say that this is the subject of joint political decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u40	And also Minister Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u41	Mr President! This government makes a lot of practical decisions to create a more child-friendly society. As we have heard, in addition to investing in reducing the poverty of families with children and investing in education at all levels — including early childhood education — and reforming parental leave, solutions are also being made that benefit all Finnish families with children. Making the second level completely free is one important example, and another thing that many Finnish families with children think about every day is the high price of hobbies. One of the key projects of this government in the area of child and youth policy will be the creation of a Finnish model so that we can better guarantee all Finnish children the opportunity to engage free of charge on school day, and there will also be significant funding to ensure that we succeed in this important national project.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u42	Now, let's change the subject. Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u43	Mr President! Greater climate action was expected from this government. However, now that the Minister has spoken of climate leaps, the scientist in the field has spoken of an increase of no more than a few millimetres. Throughout the line, experts in the field have considered the Government’s climate action to be modest. The ambitious, good goals of the Government Programme have been buried in the study and the genuinely effective actions have been moved forward. By these means, we are not on the path of carbon neutrality, which is promised to climate young people on the steps of the Parliament House. Mr Mikkonen, the gap between the Government’s climate objectives and actions is so big that, according to the Finnish Nature Conservation Association, it is responsible for more than one third of Finland’s annual emissions. Now that we meet young people who are worried about the future or experts in the climate sector, they all ask the same question: where are the government's climate measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u44	Mr President! Of course, it is good to remember that this government has only just begun its journey and the first budget is in the presentation. We are committed to a very strong climate policy and our common goal is to make Finland carbon neutral in 2035.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u50	Mr President! The subject is very important, the concern is common. It is a question of the future of our children, of having a world in which we can live in the future. Minister Mikkonen well described this overall level of ambition of the Government's climate policy, which is very high. We want Finland to be carbon neutral in 2035, we are the first fossil-free welfare society in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u53	And now those representatives who want to ask the ministers a question on this subject stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u54	Mr President! Year after year, the parties now sitting in the government said that they would finance expenditure increases by reducing subsidies to businesses that were harmful to the environment. In the course of the government negotiations, for example, the Greens said they were cutting corporate subsidies by at least one billion, and the Left was also talking about half a billion. But what happened? The budget for next year shows an amount of €3.6 billion in environmentally harmful subsidies. This is EUR 100 million more than last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u57	Mr President! These business subsidies seem to be such a constant move, which, from one parliamentary term to the next, is a major source of debate and debate. As the representative of the market economy knows well, most of them are different tax rates. It is, of course, important that, when it comes to tax policy debate, it is approached from an international perspective — what tax policies other countries have adopted in terms of VAT, energy taxation, because all of these can also be thought of as business subsidies, which perhaps in a large picture they may be, but they are also a very hard tax policy. I would like to say that this government is also cutting back on business subsidies, and, as has been said, that government programme entry — EUR 100 million — has been looking for savings there. It is also noted that, in the autumn, subsidies specifically targeted at the environment will be considered, that there will be something more to be found there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u58	Mr President! The time for climate action is now. Young people in particular have called for this. A stable and predictable operating environment is very important for companies to change their operations and even create new business using clean technology. That is why it would have been very important that we have already decided on some impressive measures. An excellent example of the change is the former oil company Neste, whose operating profit now accounts for more than 80% of the sales of renewable diesel fuel. This diesel is 90% less emission than ordinary diesel fuel. Now the government is abolishing this tax subsidy for diesel fuel. Experts from the Ministry of Finance have concluded that the aid cannot be divided into fossil and renewable separately. The abolition of aid is likely to lead to an increase in the price of renewable diesel, making it increasingly difficult to use it. So I ask Minister Mikkos: why is the government delaying effective climate action and instead taking measures that can even increase emissions?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u59	Mr President! Of course, the issue of parafinic diesel tax aid has already been discussed several times in this Chamber, and it is good to remember that 70% of that diesel is fossil. We have specific support for environmentally friendly fuels, or they have different taxes. It is much larger than the removal of this paraffinic support. Overall, reducing transport emissions — and I am sure the Minister of Transport can continue to do so — is an important means of climate change. That is what we want to promote by promoting better use of low-emission cars, both the charging infrastructure for electric cars and the use of transport biogas. With regard to the use of transport biogas, we also gain climate benefits through the fact that if, for example, we do not need to cut down the peatland-growing forest, that we can spread manure there in the field, but we can use it as the energy of manure, use it in heating, use it in transport, and, on the other hand, we can get nutrients into circulation there — this is one concrete act of climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u60	Mr President! As I have already said in my reply, we will set up a working group for the transition to fossil-free transport, and this working group will be set up at this very moment. This is, of course, an important basis for achieving predictability, planning and systematicity as to how transport emissions can be reduced. We have the objective of halving transport emissions by 2030, and we have a lot to do here. In addition to what I said earlier — investment in rail transport — we will also take a number of other measures which have also been included in next year's budget: record-breaking efforts to promote walking and cycling, EUR 24.5 million more money for next year, and also an increase in public transport support of EUR 20 million per year on a climate-based basis. These are the concrete actions and actions with which the climate is under pressure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u61	And here's my Minister Kulmun.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u62	Mr President! I would like to remind you that there are no changes to biofuels, those renewables, and in Finland, for example, in terms of taxation, it is below the European minimum level at the moment. And, of course, development has gone a long way since these models were created, since today the obligation to mix has already progressed from what it once was. As Minister for Energy, I would also like to say how important it is that companies play a role here and how their investments involve, for example, lowering the electricity tax for industry, which is intended specifically to support the electrification of society, to support Finnish industry in Finland and also to contribute to those major climate issues. If sustainable climate solutions can be made on an industrial scale here in the northern regions of Europe, there is no doubt that other concentrations in the world would have been interested in them. This work is strongly promoted by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u63	Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u64	Mr President! Finland has done a long job in promoting renewable energy and has done very well in doing so. It is worth remembering that we already have 80% of electricity made without emissions from the environmental point of view — an extremely important thing — and another great strength we have in Finland’s forests. When new pulp is coming to this country and new ones are in progress, we are all well aware that, first of all, every factory brings huge export revenue to Finland — long-fibre pulp has great export potential every moment — but then the question comes to mind when there are different speeches about whether or not it should be built. After all, our forests give us plenty of opportunities. So I ask Minister of Agriculture and Forestry Jari Leppä: After we have had a lengthy forest study, what is your view: will our forest resources be sufficient? After all, there has been a huge debate on this in the columns of leaves and there have been conflicting opinions that forests should not be cut. After all, this serves the energy production of Finns in the best possible way. What is the Minister's opinion on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u65	Mr President! Finland has used and used its forests in a sustainable way. The difference between the growth and use of our forests is one of the largest in the European Union, and it is growing. In the post-war period, we have doubled the growth of our forests, at the same time we have doubled the carbon sequestration capacity and, at the same time, we have significantly increased the use of wood. This has significantly replaced the use of non-renewable resources and will continue to do so. When forests have economic value, they are also managed, making them increasingly carbon-binding and making them increasingly available for the good, sustainable purposes that we want. New products are coming all the time and, as colleagues have already said here, when it is our intention to get rid of fossil raw materials, the forests are the solver and the key to the solution. New investments are needed. They are much more efficient from an environmental point of view, much more efficient from an energy point of view
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u66	Let's continue with the questions at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u67	Mr President! The criticisms made by some ministers about the Finnish forest industry and the use of forests in general are confusing in many respects. Finland has more forests relative to the area than any other European country. The reason for this is a century of responsible forestry, where new ones are planted. For the same reason, our forests do not burn up in smoke like in many other countries. Secondly, a growing well-managed forest eats carbon dioxide, not a decaying rhythm. I'd like to ask Minister Mikkos: Do you think it would be better, for example, to produce pulp in China with coal electricity than to produce it responsibly here in Finland? And if you think that Finnish forestry policy is irresponsible or unsustainable, what country do you use to measure? In which country are things better this way than in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u68	Mr President! As we all know, forests are good, renewable natural resources and Finland's well-being, both economic well-being and intellectual well-being, are based on our forests. Our forest management is of high quality, but more and more we must also pay attention to climate impacts and biodiversity impacts in forestry management, and that is what we have also said together in the Government Programme. It also assesses the forms of forest management, better consideration of climate impacts and diverse benefits and, for example, the benefits of continuous forest management. It is very important that our forests are well. We know that with climate change there is also a huge threat and risk that when forest pests are spreading from the south, how do we ensure that our forests remain in good condition and healthy. It also helps the more diverse forests are and the more species of trees are found in forests. I believe that this concern for the forests is for all of us, not just the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u69	Mr President! Under the pretext of reducing emissions, the Government intends to ruin the lives of Finns and the operating conditions of companies with a historical one-off increase in fuel tax. [Earth-to-Warning ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u70	Mr President! I would like to say to this first part of the question that almost every government has raised some fuel taxation, so in so far as Mr Vestman's party is not free of it either, because it has also been used during the last parliamentary term for exactly the same reasons that this government is doing. For example, the fact that an index increase is made is the background there, and at the same time, 300 million more are put on the road every year. Finally, on this question of nuclear energy: it is a very big law and, admittedly, it is also beginning to need to be updated. Of course, when a great deal of legislative work is carried out, it also requires an assessment and background study, and of course the Ministry of Employment and the Economy will assess how such an update of the Nuclear Energy Act could be made. For example, it has been laid down during the previous constitution, which may indicate that it would also be good to update existing legislation, but it is a long legislative process,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u71	And the last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u72	Mr President! The climate policy bar is high in the government, but the government, you go under it so that you slip away. I understand very well that the Greens of the Government, Emma Kari and many others, were protesting against this government's climate policy in front of Parliament, because measures are now awaited. I would ask you, Minister Kulmuni: you said you were cutting back on harmful environmental subsidies. If they rise from 3.5 billion to 3.6 billion, they will not then be cut, but, in fact, these environmentally harmful subsidies will be increased by the Rinte government. Isn't that right, Minister Kulmun? But then, car tax. You will stop the development of what was done for a long time, that car tax
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u73	Mr President! Of course, it must be said that the price of allowances changes its shape every year according to the market mechanism, and that is why it also has an impact on the budget we are dealing with. This, of course, is partly the reason why they may also vary from one year to another in the budget. But direct payments, including environmentally harmful subsidies, which the representative asked about, will also be reduced in terms of its paraffinic aid. [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u74	Now let's move on with Question Time and change the subject. Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u75	Mr President! We have an estimated 5,500 homeless people in Finland, and today we spend the night of the homeless. The housing support system should help the most vulnerable people and enable the roof over their heads for all. In 2008, less than half a billion general housing allowance was paid, while this year, in 2019, it has risen to one and a half billion. Is there a system failure? Indeed, it appears that the system has made it more possible to increase rents and reduce affordable rental housing. Is someone syphilising this system?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u76	Like this. — Minister Mikkonen, sense or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u77	Mr President! Mr Pekonen, the minister responsible for aid, is absent, but I myself am responsible for housing policy and I can answer this question in that regard. Today is indeed the night of the homeless, and it is a very important annual reminder to us that we have homelessness and we must do something about it. The good news is that Finland has been working long-term to reduce homelessness and Finland is one of the few EU countries where homelessness has decreased. We will continue this work. One major progress that has been made is that we have reduced long-term homelessness by introducing this kind of housing first principle, i.e. giving first housing, then offering assistance to other problems that the long-term unemployed often have. At the same time, we must now ensure that we intervene in the prevention of homelessness, and that is the focus of our new homelessness programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u78	And now those representatives who want a supplementary question on this subject, the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u79	Mr President! You said many good words, Minister, but I did not hear the answer to my actual question. I would like to ask again: does the system, the current system, promote the daily lives of disadvantaged people or rather the ability of the stock exchange to pay dividends? A clear question to which I would like an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u80	That's a clear question. — Minister Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u81	Mr Östman knows that last season these housing allowances were under the supervision of the Audit Committee, and we specifically did a major study there, we wondered what was the way in which housing support should be organised. Because we know that, at the moment, housing support is very significant and, in fact, it targets quite a large number of Finns. Support for housing is important because housing is a fundamental right, but how it is targeted so that it is precisely to help the person who needs it and not perhaps to run away from someone else — as you are proposing here — is an extremely important issue, and we must continue to do so. And also the amount of support to be paid to the person who needs the dwelling and the amount to be paid for its construction. Because, of course, the root cause of homelessness is that we do not have enough affordable housing available, and this is one of the issues that the government is tackling. We want to increase the supply of affordable housing, and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u82	The sdp and the Left Alliance had also announced this as their theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u83	Congressman Viitanen, Pia.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u84	Mr President! I'm sure tonight will be the night of those fires. Tonight is the night of the Homeless, and this will be very humble when we think that today we have people who have no home. Many people are looking for a place to stay with friends or in the woods, and of course this cannot be the case, Mr President. The measure of civilization is how we take care of the weakest, and we must be able to act in such a way that every person has a right to his own home. President! As the Minister has said here, we have been doing a good job of this for many years now. Finland is the only country in Europe where homelessness has decreased, but surely it is as long as we have one person without a home as long as we have a job. President! This government has set itself the goal of halving homelessness during its period so that the homelessness will become a complete one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u85	Mr President! Indeed, it is good to remember that homelessness is a situation and a condition, not a quality, and we can influence situations and circumstances through political decisions. As Mr Viitanen said, this has been done in Finland for a very long time, and good results have been achieved in Finland on how to reduce homelessness.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u88	Congressman Salmonkoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u89	Mr President! Finland is the only EU country where homelessness has been falling in recent years. The principle of affordable ARA dwellings and housing first and homelessness programmes have contributed to the low level of homelessness in Finland compared to the rest of Europe. However, every homeless person is too much, because housing is a basic human need. In order to eliminate homelessness, the state must increase the production of affordable rental dwellings in growth centres. The Government Programme has set out a fine objective for the elimination of homelessness during the two term of government. Although homelessness has decreased, the relative share of women of the homeless has increased. Women’s homelessness is accompanied by specific themes such as fear, the threat of violence and exploitation. In the event of a sudden homelessness, sufficient safety, low-threshold emergency accommodation and services should also be provided to women throughout the country. How will the government consider homeless women when preparing the next homelessness work programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u90	Mr President! That is exactly what Mr Salmonikoski said. Unfortunately, the proportion of women and also young people among homeless people has increased. We must ensure that the services we provide to the homeless also take account of different groups, such as women. On the other hand, they need low-threshold places that provide support and services specifically targeted at them, because violence and sexual exploitation of women are unfortunately very closely linked to homelessness. This is what we are bringing new ways. In the new homelessness programme, we will also very strongly involve organisations in this work together, because they will play an extremely important role together with municipalities in providing services and reducing homelessness and finding solutions to these problems together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u91	There is still time to take up one question on a whole new subject. Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u92	Mr President! The current government promises that applications for work permits for specialist experts coming to Finland must be processed within a month, and 13 million additional funds were allocated to the processing of asylum applications. These speeches and additional money are just a trick, because in reality, asylum applications will be handled by fewer handlers next year than this year. There will be far fewer handling of work-based residence permits next year. The average processing times for specialist work permits have increased from 25 to 50 days a year. In July 2008, the law entered into force that asylum applications should be processed within six months. On the basis of existing resources, it is challenging to achieve this objective and it has also meant that applications for asylum pending before the new law are still pending. The Immigration Service has run out of money for this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u93	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a very important question. The Finnish Immigration Service has also made public — and we as the Ministry of the Interior have raised this issue — the fact that, unfortunately, the budget made last year for this year has not been able to meet the needs that the Finnish Immigration Service currently has. That is why this government is proposing an increase in its budget for the Finnish Immigration Service for this year, and there will be an additional allocation for next year. Of course, we must constantly look at the situation. Finland needs, among other things, work-related immigration. The government is committed to promoting it. The aim is to obtain a month’s working permit processing time. The asylum process also aims to bring quality back into the process so that applications do not need to be processed several times, saving resources and human resources from many.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u94	The plenary session will be suspended for a meeting of the large committee and resumed at 6 p.m. after the meeting of the large committee has ended.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u95	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 2/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u96	Mr President! There is indeed a government proposal to bring forward the payment of EUR 237 million for this year of a one-off state contribution to the expiry of the competitiveness agreement for basic services originally intended for next year. This government proposal is in itself to be welcomed, but it is only a matter of bringing forward the payment by about a year, so the proposal will only bring temporary relief to the finances of the municipalities. There is no new money for the municipalities with this proposal. Mr President! The finances of municipalities have deteriorated and their indebtedness has accelerated quite rapidly. According to estimates, the combined debt burden of the local government sector will increase from EUR 20 billion to around EUR 30 billion by the middle of next decade. Municipalities suffering from population decline and ageing, where private sector jobs are on the cards, are in particular distress. The combined cash flow from operations and investments is estimated to decline most in small municipalities with less than 6000 inhabitants. Mr President! Local government tax revenues have decreased very rapidly as a result of the decline in economic growth, and according to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, their combined municipal tax revenue is as much as EUR 600 million lower than expected. All of this will inevitably also be reflected in their level of service. According to current estimates, only Helsinki makes surplus accounts for large cities, which is very exceptional. New measures are needed, both from the state and from the municipalities, to remedy this situation. In many municipalities, in good times, there has been an unfortunate widespread and waste of tax resources on less necessary projects and investments. Municipalities themselves must be able to improve their operations and service production. Municipal tax increases are not the right way to go, even though, according to preliminary data, they are planned for up to 90 municipalities. Some pressure on the increase in the income tax rate is as high as 90% of municipalities. Mr President! The forward-looking but permanent expenditure increases in the Government Programme of slopes will increase the expenditure of local government finances by EUR 565 million at the level of 2023. One-off expenditure increases in the Government Programme will increase municipal expenditure by around EUR 200 million per year for the period 2020-22. Although the majority of the new tasks will be replaced in full by municipalities, part of the one-off expenditure increases will be financed for only one year. Unfortunately, practice has shown that some of the one-off projects are actually permanent. Mr President! In fact, the local government economy is facing a serious crisis if the government's employment target of 75% is not met,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u97	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u98	Mr President, ärade talman! On 14 November 2018, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a Regulation on the European Union Agency for Criminal Cooperation and replacing and repealing Council Decision 2002/187/JHA. The Regulation will apply from 12 December 2019. Eurojust’s role is to support judicial coordination and cooperation between national authorities to combat terrorism and serious cross-border organised crime. It is important for Eurojust to have adequate resources for its activities. The October PART Council has adopted conclusions on Eurojust, which state that Eurojust is a key player at EU level in the criminal process chain. Eurojust has just put in place a counter-terrorism register to support Member States' efforts to combat terrorism in order to improve the security of citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u99	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 2/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. — Mr Niikko, Chairman of the Committee, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-17-ps-52.u100	Mr President! In the context of the discussion of the Finnish OSCE delegation's 2018 activity report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of the OSCE as an important and necessary organisation for strengthening stability and security in Europe. The tense international political situation was reflected in the activities of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly during the reporting year. The debate was marked by the crisis in Ukraine, prolonged conflicts, terrorism and migration. The OSCE's field of action is very wide, and this is also reflected in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomed the fact that the Finnish delegation had chosen a number of key themes and priorities for its work during the reporting year. These included support for mediation, active participation in election observation, the role of women in conflict and peace-building, freedom of expression, security of independent media and the security of journalists, which, in the Committee's view, are well founded priorities. In discussing the OSCE Finnish delegation's activity report for 2018, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the delegation's work on bringing mediation to the centre of the General Assembly's activities. The committee noted that one of the key instruments of influence in the work of the General Assembly was the appeal of delegation members to the parliamentary assembly's positions of trust. The Committee on Foreign Affairs agrees with this assessment and considers it important that the work of Congressman Ilkka Kanerva as Special Representative of the General Assembly for the Mediation of Peace continued for the reporting year. Mr President! The committee noted that mediation has become one of the priorities of Finland's foreign policy. During the reporting year, the informal peace mediation network of Parliament also began its work. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also stressed the importance of election observation, which is an important part of the General Assembly's operational activities. The General Assembly was able to monitor the elections in eight different countries. A worrying trend in recent years has been that professional election observation has been the subject of attacks. The OSCE General Assembly presidency has taken a position on this phenomenon and stated that only international organisations have the capacity to exercise credible electoral observation and to avoid the emergence of ties. In the reporting year, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine continued for the fifth year. The political dialogue on the implementation of the Minsk Agreement and the resolution of conflicts was literally in a stalemate at that stage. Little progress has now been made between Russia and Ukraine and we hope that they will enter into a constructive dialogue. The work of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe is now worth more than ever. The OSCE is playing an important role in the Steinmeier model, which is now helping Ukraine and Russia to end the war that has lasted for more than five years. Mr President! Finally, there is a clear touch between the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Committee on Foreign Affairs welcomes the efforts to intensify cooperation and dialogue between the Finnish delegations in order to make use of this contact surface. With these introductions, the committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report K 14/2019 vp.
