ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Now, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the opinion on the report will be decided on the basis Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, Mr Tuomo Puumala, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u2	Mr President! I am very pleased and proud to present the report on sport policy — an important document. This is an important opening for the development of Finnish sports policy. The report presents a large number of development proposals with a clear message: Finns move from baby to old people. The report examines both physical exercise and competitive sports. This holistic approach is, in the Committee's view, the right one. The physical culture supports the conditions for the success of top-level sport. Successful athletes, on the other hand, encourage movement and offer unforgettable experiences to Finns. On the basis of the report's proposals, the Committee has drawn attention in particular to the health effects of physical activity and the costs of immobilisation, the mobility of the entire population throughout the life cycle, the status of disabled sports, the improvement of the conditions for the success of top sports, the financing of physical activity and sport, and the promotion of sport and sport in an intersectoral manner. On the basis of these, the Committee on Culture and Education will submit to Parliament for approval a position consisting of 12 concrete proposals for measures. I'll open a few of these: First of all, the needs of cross-administrativeism. Increasing physical activity is a matter for society as a whole. The implementation of the sports policy report must take place in a cross-border manner. In addition to sport policy, the perspective of increasing the movement must be taken into account in social and health care, transport policy, spatial planning and many other sectors. The committee therefore proposes that the Government consider coordinating physical activity. Possible measures include strengthening the status of the State Sports Council and moving to the Prime Minister's Office, and the suitability of phenomena-based budgeting to promote physical activity must also be assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u5	Thank you. — And then Minister Terho would like to speak, please, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u6	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Culture and Education for the report on the report on sport policy, which strongly supports the main thrust of the report. The first sports policy report of history highlights the growing importance of physical activity in society. The report lays the foundations for a 20th-century sports policy in our country. The aim of the report is to be a strategic and social document. Sport has a growing public health and educational role and importance in society. The primary message of the Sports Policy Report is that Finland needs more exercise in all age groups. Increasing physical activity could bring both huge health and well-being benefits and economic benefits. The strong message of the report is also that exercise is a cross-administrative phenomenon. In order to increase mobility in all population groups and our society is positive for mobility, cooperation between all sectors of government and all actors is needed. Exercise and mobility must be taken where people are otherwise, i.e. early childhood education, school, secondary and higher education institutions, working life, services for the elderly and so on. The report contains proposals for measures for all stages of life. According to the report, a maximum of EUR 120 million of additional one-off investment in physical activity in the early 20s should be decided on in future government negotiations for the success of increasing physical activity. The report presents concrete proposals for measures to promote all areas of sport policy, such as sports facilities, civic activities, assistance and top-notch sport. Currently, the state’s sports budget, financed from the proceeds of gambling, amounts to approximately EUR 155 million per year, and there is virtually no funding from the budget. Among the industries, physical activity is the only one that is entirely dependent on the proceeds of gambling activities in the state budget. It would therefore be justified to gradually increase budget funding for physical activity in the 20th century. Mr President! Every child and young person should be guaranteed the opportunity to engage in a hobby. Concrete tools for improving the accessibility of hobbies are a hobby pass and support for the development of social club activities. The hobby pass is in the piloting phase and later becomes national. Ensuring access to hobbies for the most vulnerable children and young people is a common challenge that requires the cooperation of several actors. There are also development needs in sports facilities construction. At present, the state supports the construction of sports facilities by approximately EUR 30 million per year, less than one third of which is directed to regional government agencies to support small sports facilities projects. The Ministry of Education and Culture provides support for around 30 projects and applications will be about three times higher than this. It can therefore be estimated that there is an additional need for support for sports facilities. In addition, according to the report, a lump sum of around EUR 20 million of budgetary resources would be required at the beginning of the 20th century for the management of the correction debt. In the 2010s, Finland has implemented a mobility and well-being programme for early childhood education.The joy is growing by moving around, creating good networks and practices to increase mobility in early childhood education. However, there has been no comprehensive system of assistance for the work. That is why we need a comprehensive, cross-administrative, mobile early childhood education programme. The programme has a ready-made basis for action and can also take advantage of the success factors of the Mobility School programme, applied in the context of early childhood education. Maintaining healthy, functional and well-being for our rapidly ageing population is a key societal challenge. There is a particular need for increased mobility for elderly people living independently at home who have problems with their ability to move. There is good reason to build a comprehensive programme in Finland that includes not only people living at home without regular services but also elderly people living in home care and care institutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u7	Let's have a brief conversation. First of all, Mr Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u8	Mr President! Thank you for the excellent work that has been done here. I certainly support it and I support it as a solidist. One comment, however. And that is that it is reflected through the idea that by strengthening the administrative resources of the central government, including the transfer of the State Sports Council to the Prime Minister's Office, it has become, as it were, a universal medicine to which I do not believe. Remember that it is the responsibility of the state administration, the public administration, to provide resources, not to manage them themselves, but to provide sports clubs, local sports clubs and resources for sports federations, within which, however, the essential work of promoting physical activity in Finland rests in the most important areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u9	Mr President! In this context, I am not paying any attention to this administration except to the fact that I myself consider it a priority to support clubs, practical social work and, of course, on the sidelines of species associations, which then contribute to this particular social work. Mr President! I think that one of the main lines of this report is correct, and that is that this exercise is being directed, particularly to those people and groups who are under-represented in it. In practice, this means a very large proportion of young people, including children, and that is why, for example, the continuation of school exercise, the extension to all educational institutions, is important. We have now talked a lot about professional reform. In this context, I refer to the expert opinion, which stated that, in particular, vocational schoolchildren are very little mobile and need more and more exercise and related guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u10	Madam President! This report from the first report on sports policy raises very good points and important points in these own positions. Maybe a few of them I'll grab. First of all, Finnish sports club activities are hugely large voluntary activities, and it is perhaps the largest sector of all, which puts the Finns into voluntary work. And in that sense it must be said that it is important that we are not really building more bureaucracy and administration, but, above all, giving resources to where they are needed and that we trust that the non-governmental actors in the third sector know best how to promote their cause. This confusion of VAT rates has also been highlighted here, which relates to sports services. This is also a reason to bring it very quickly to the point that people know that when we are involved in sports services, we are promoting health. For myself, I would see that these could be zero-tax services in the future. It is such an important issue when it comes to moving Finns and the Finnish nation
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u11	Madam President! Perhaps the most valuable, as it were, of the whole report is definitely this life-cycle thinking, the importance of mobility at every age of life. Of course, it is also strongly linked to the goal of equality and equality, so that everyone can also exercise at different stages of life. What the Committee on Education and Rural Development raised strongly is that we should remember all the time that we are also talking about welfare, the joy of movement and the idea that as many people as there are, there are also so many different ways of moving, and when we think about immobility or movement, we would not set the wrong conditions or objectives either. Since the more we go into strict thinking that a person should look or be physically in a certain condition or perform something, we also create risks to unhealthy mobility behavior. For example, organizations working with eating disorders have pointed out a great deal that all the time moving around, encouraging active life is accompanied by that thinking about health and well-being and that it would leave that individual and its own insight to find that joy of mobility and well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u12	Mr President! It is really great that we have the opportunity to discuss exercise, the promotion of physical activity and sports in this Chamber for once for a little longer. This report was, in many respects, very commendable, and we in the Committee on Education and Rural Development are practically picking up the issues to be promoted there. Perhaps one thing that I would like to raise, which is somewhat different from what might have been thought in the report, is precisely what was said in the previous speech: perhaps we should move on to thinking that every step is a step in the right direction. In other words, we talk about the benefits of everyday exercise, the joy and advantage of mobility, even if we do not get to all of those sports recommendations. We may have a little problem that we always strive for perfection and measure it when every step really benefits. All exercise does not have to be so that the taste of blood in your mouth is gone. If we could catch up with this thinking, perhaps each of us could do just a little more for our own health and well-being by moving a little more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u13	Mr President! It is a great thing that we have a report on sports policy on the table. The Finnish system for the financing of physical activity and sport, the winnings, is a wonderful system, and this report also raises the concern that the winnings are obviously not significantly increasing, quite the contrary. We all know that immobility has a price. It is a price from the point of view of individual health, from the point of view of individual quality of life, and it is also a national economic price. It is important, because man is a Homo ludens, a playful person, to make people of different ages move more and build their own personal well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u14	Madam President! However, I would say to Mrs Kanerva that, in this report and also in our report, it is precisely the idea that we really should clarify the administration, because that is what we need in the field of physical activity. The resources really need to go to the grassroots level to get more movement. I would say in exactly the same way as Mr Multala and Mr Toivola that all business is good, and I am pleased about that in our committee's report, how it highlights the joy of every child, young person, adult person, parent, and the community aspect of physical activity, because everyone will certainly find their own sport. Especially good is this course of life and the thought of unbrokenness that exercise would be present for each of us at every stage of life. I still hope from all the parties that when we move towards government negotiations, that will really bring more resources to exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u15	Madam President! It is important to note that, although we in Parliament, of course, talk first of all about the state's contribution to physical activity, the municipalities are those who spend about six times as much money financially as the state, and this shows that it is not moving at the upper level, but precisely at the grassroots level, at the municipal level, and how the municipalities can even be made to reflect intersectorally on the solutions that move people of all ages. People are being moved at grass roots level, at local level, and just as Mrs Kanerva has pointed out here, sports clubs are doing a very important and essential job in this movement, which is why social support is an essential element in ensuring that everyone can afford and have access to social activities. I am pleased that Parliament, in its budget reading, has increased the social assistance, but only now has it been restored to the level at which it was at the time when I, as the Minister for Sport, raised it. But this is the next step.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u16	Mr President! This is a good place to go. First of all, of course, we must thank the amount of information we now have in all our hands. At least knowledge does not get caught in the promotion of our physical activity in this society. In my view, the Finnish model of Iceland in this case is precisely that we understand where our problems lie and then tackle them by the means we have. And from this account, if you pick up one problem, it tells us, among other things, that one fifth of our high school students and one quarter of those in vocational education move too little in terms of their health. In other words, we need to get to grips with the mobility of children in a completely different way, and there is a way to do that: flexible school day, reform of morning and afternoon activities. So that's where you'll find the Finnish Icelandic model. Let us seize this immobility of children by taking the exercise even more strongly to where all children and young people are. In other words, if we are able to move forward in the coming years, I believe that we will do the most powerful thing about the problem that this meritful report in itself shows us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u17	Mr President! Sporting clubs play an important role in the mobility of children and young people in particular, and it is good to ensure that the extensive and extensive voluntary activity that is being carried out there is possible without obstacles and not more barriers but rather easier. But it is also worth remembering that self - exercise and exercise are increasingly important today. And also for children and young people, it must be possible to play outdoor games, go to the airport even when you are not in the sports club, but have access to these sports facilities. Well, cycling and walking are, of course, the good form of physical exercise, which we should invest most in. Light transport routes are still our most used sports facilities, and municipalities must ensure that these are done in a way that makes everyday mobility smooth, while at the same time promoting walking and cycling, we also reduce climate and transport emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u18	Mr President! Indeed, there is a report on sports policy and, historically, the first one in Finland. Above all, the most important thing for us is to increase the mobility of children and young people. Each child and young person should be able to exercise free of charge, experience the joy of mobility, experiment with different species without the necessity of success and receive guidance from skilled trainers and instructors. Resources need to be increased, particularly for clubs that do important work by both volunteers and professionals. The mobile school model should also be applied in the fields of early childhood education, higher education, workplaces and care for the elderly. Above all, efforts must be made to create new jobs in the well-being and sports tourism sectors. We need to improve the operating conditions for high-sports and transfer our responsibility to the Olympic Committee. This management of physical activity must also be extended from the Ministry of Education and Culture to cover all administrative sectors: transport, social services, livelihoods. And parasports must also be integrated into the activities of sports federations through incentive funding. This is a good report, and hopefully the next government will take this seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u19	Mr President! Promoting physical activity is not just a matter for one person. It is not just a matter for clubs and federations of species, it is a matter for our society as a whole and for other sports organisations. We need to get one spearhead from this exercise in our society and think about how, for example, work is organised in the workplace so that it also enables movement in the middle of the working day, that is, the habit of working in everyday life. This affects all age groups, and it is pretty bad if a person is already in bad shape in Eskari: what is our society’s carrying capacity after that? Exercise is a positive opportunity and a preventive counterattack to expenses. And when we talk about environmental works, now we should also talk about physical activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u20	Madam President! Of course, as a member of the State Sports Council, I am glad that we are here today. This is an historic achievement, thanks to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and, of course, to all those involved in the preparation. All the points that have now been raised are important and look to the future and, in particular, to the importance of promoting the well-being and health of citizens and to the development and maintenance of their ability to function, which will then have a direct impact on the social sector and the related costs. Mr President! As Mr Vahasalo said, this is a very strategic issue. And in that sense, my esteemed representative, Mr Kanerva, the reason why we pushed this role of the State Sports Council to a more strategic level is because we are still too silod. We need cross-administrativeism so that, as Mr Vahasalo well described, we touch society as a whole, not just one area of government, as we are unfortunately doing too often now. As a concrete example, for example, cooperation
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u22	Mr President! An hour of exercise a day in schools has been a great success story during this parliamentary term. We see it as very important in this committee's report and I see it as important and the centre sees it as extremely important that it is extended and developed during the next parliamentary term, for example in the field of vocational training, where we see real challenges, second degree, higher education, early childhood education, and that it is genuinely put into the schools there. The next step would be to make the afternoons even more accessible in the schools. And it really is appropriate to think about this kind of Finnish application from the Icelandic model to the free hobby opportunity: on a low threshold opportunity for all. It will pay itself back many times more, not only in terms of the costs of immobility, but also in terms of finding a friend or something meaningful to do. Another important point is this cross-sectorality. We also put forward concrete ways of doing this. I would like to hear from the Minister how you feel about those methods.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u23	Mr President! Sport and sport are a happy thing — all sports and sports are a happy thing — and valuable to both society and the individual. There cannot be and should not be a situation where public investment in top-level sport is in some way incompatible with junior activity. There is no such confrontation, there should not be and cannot be. I have always felt that top sport needs offspring and offspring needs models. So there is no contradiction, but they support each other in a very logical and consistent way. But still, President, you still run into things like this with different kinds of claims, where these two are placed against each other. How do you think, Minister, that we should act, argue and fight against this completely artificial confrontation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u24	Mr President! Yes, we are movingly united here in the Chamber about the need for physical activity in society. But after four years of fighting here about how to curb social and health costs by 3 billion, and then we see papers that say that immobility costs society between 3 and 7 billion a year, can we not find some kind of equation there? It needs this intersectoralism both at the state level and at the municipal level. It also needs an impact assessment when it is assessed that the legislation is specifically viewed from a physical exercise perspective. The increase in the number of mobile schools, which must be increased, and specifically, as has been mentioned here, in vocational education and training. The movement there is far too small. We have the potential to reform through taxation. At the moment, the closer you get to the individual, the more you pay for the alvia. I do not think that is right. Much remains to be done to make things a better model.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u25	Mr President! The ball has now been thrown to the future Parliament, this important report and the good intentions of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which were unanimously adopted. Very important issues: the Hobby Guarantee for children and young people, increased mobility appropriations, in particular improving the capacity of clubs to operate; The extension of the mobile school to the second stage, but also to the higher education institutions — I would like to emphasise this, because the university is exactly the place where it is the last time to involve a young person in a sports lifestyle. I would like to ask the Minister: what is the way in which this has been thought to be footed? What measures are being taken to increase the intensity and effectiveness of the "Movementing University" programme? I would love to involve young people in this, students, the Student Sports Federation, and ask them for the best solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u26	Madam President! Any action to increase mobility is important and should be taken. As far as I am concerned, it is important and a good thing in this report on sports policy that the standards of volunteering and organisation continue to be abolished. It is important, because clubs and voluntary organizations do an enormous amount of good work for all Finns. Similarly, it is good that social assistance is being proposed to be increased from the current four to six million euros. It's important. Exercise and sports are always worth investing in. From my point of view, physical exercise, all physical activity and top-notch sports must not be put against each other, but everyone is needed. We also need stars from top sports that young people follow. It will also encourage young people to move. The report on sports policy is not a complete document, but gives hope for an increase in the value of physical activity and sport. Yet it is only deeds that show how it will be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u27	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs contains good positions. In particular, I welcome the fact that the committee is proposing to consider the suitability of phenomenon-based budgeting to promote cross-administrative mobility. The proposal also promotes awareness of the health effects of physical activity in all social and health care services, from the child health clinic to care and care for elderly people, is an important contribution. At the moment, for example, home care customers rarely get out of their homes, even if this is the best thing for the elderly to promote their ability to function, activeness and well-being. There may be home - care clients who will never really get out of their own home. And when this is the case, it can also be thought that this, that elderly people cannot get out of their own homes, is even a violation of human rights, not to mention what it means in terms of functional impairment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u28	Mr President! It is a great thing that this report is now in the feedback debate. It contains a great deal of things that the governments and decision-makers who will then be responsible for implementing. But we all have a role to play here. After all, the movement is a medicine, as has been said many times here, and I am now encouraging all the representatives to take it as a model. I can tell you that I have a very personal experience of how well moving helps a person to cope with an older age. Let's do it ourselves. Let's put together a group of people we can move around with. We can all do it for ourselves, and it costs nothing at all. All in all, the most important thing is that mobility becomes a way of life. We should somehow be able to get it to people so that it belongs to us in exactly the same way every day that we eat. Mobility is just as important for our overall well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u29	Madam President! It is good that in this Chamber we are not only moved by our own words, but also by our desire to promote physical activity throughout society through an historic exercise policy report. This is where the social work has been brought up. It is important, and it is good that resources are added to it, but I have some doubts as to whether traditional social work will bring us to those children and young people who do not move at all. For example, school exercise plays an important role. Of course, this hour of exercise per day is a good goal and serves especially those who move to some extent and receive additional boost from becoming this hour of exercise per day. But what about young people who become more discouraged in school sports than excited about it? I hope that attention will be paid to this and that solutions will be made. For example, these grades, whether exercise or visual art, I question the need for them. As Mr Arhinmäki pointed out, the municipalities have a big role to play here. Many say that clubs take up all the time in municipal sports facilities, not enough time for these höntsäkunta. It is likely that there will be children and young people who otherwise do not move enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u30	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the volunteers, the third sector. The work that is done in clubs is extremely valuable, and any decision that affects it must always be seen from the point of view that voluntary work and voluntary work are not jeopardised. It is the breeding ground and the foundation on which Finnish sport is based. Secondly, when we talk about this cross-administrativeity, I would like to highlight the welfare reports of the municipalities. They must be done, but they must take a very strong cross-administrative approach. What is done in the field of physical activity has a direct link to health expenses and other expenses. Then to the Minister, the question is: There is little use of former top athletes, as it were, in the spirit of mentoring. We have hundreds of former top athletes who have a lot to offer and who could possibly be available free of charge as sparrers for young people. Is there a model that can be organized to make this group and their skills and attitudes available?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u31	Mr President! The mobility of the elderly needs more attention, as physical activity is an important factor in maintaining the functional capacity of the ageing population. Sport should therefore be involved in both domestic and institutional services, and of course special attention should be paid to elderly people with reduced functional capacity or health who live at home or who are without regular services. In institutional services for the elderly, a programme such as the Mobility School could be started, which would then try out how to make exercise a daily part of the service facilities for the elderly, and also in home services, a pilot project could be launched where, for example, the municipal or other mobility advisers would be able to travel around the homes of the elderly in the home service. You have to remind me — at least I have been told by sports experts — that even a person in his 90 ’ s can improve his muscle condition so much that his ability to function improves, and then, for example, it takes longer to survive at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u32	Mr President! There has been talk of the phenomenon of Iceland. What phenomenon is it: it is a very far-reaching team sport phenomenon. We see amazing performances in football and handball. We haven't seen much Icelandic runners and skiers out there doing well. The same phenomenon is in Finland: We get a bronze medal from the World Cup, but Finland succeeds in team sports instead. Young people come into it in a completely different way. Last time, Minister of Culture Karpela understood the importance of team sports. In his day came — even we were doing it, for the Volleyball League — this kind of consideration of team sports money. During Mr Arhinmäki's time, I did not notice that team sports were being taken into account in particular, but now I place my wish on Minister Terho: Do we have enough funding to take into account today that young people are very strong in team sports and that Finland is also very successful there? Are we up to date in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u33	Madam President! Exercise that promotes health and well-being and brings joy to life should bring every citizen’s daily life. After all, we in the Committee on the Future discussed this report and heard a number of experts, and in writing we also got a bundle, and as one of the first things we raised, it was the increase in daily exercise that would be a key means of reducing the problem of Finnish mobility, and here, of course, accessible and mobile attractive social planning is also one thing. Sport promoting well-being and health in all age groups — in schools at different degrees, in peak years at work, but also among older people — will also save euros in health costs. I would like to ask: when we also pointed out that state funds should be earmarked for those associations which have been more closely monitored, which take into account children and young people who are little mobile and young people at different risk of exclusion, is this an idea that should be promoted, precisely that the various associations should take account of those at risk of exclusion in some way and that this should also be taken into account in support?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u34	There are still a few replies and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u35	Mr President! This report is a valuable report, the proposals are very good, they are worth supporting, as has been made clear here. Three ticks: First of all, a great deal of support and appreciation must be given to all voluntary work, including exercise. They do it in clubs, and they don't ask me what you're paying me. Punk 2. Physical activity has a direct connection to this much-spoken war, which sometimes also happens, and as a national arrangement, it preempts a very large amount of such things that cost a lot of money that need to be fixed anyway. It's worth it anyway. Point 3. It is always worth talking to the administration and looking for sensible things, but the most important thing is that the activities play, that resources are allocated to the activities as much as possible. That's probably what we're aiming at here, too. Exercise is a way of life, it is a fine way of life, it manages its health, it makes you feel good, it saves you all sorts of expenses. That way of life is based on the strong presence of these things in homes and schools. To this, too, Turku’s wisdom is that movement is more important than goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u36	And then three more replies, representatives Heinonen, Pakkanen and Wallin, Harry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u37	Mr President! Finland needs more exercise. In fact, the costs of non-mobility are higher than the municipalities' sports budgets today, and we need to turn this around and make the most of it. Moving school: We need to expand it and move towards a moving way of life. The club activities, the hobby moon that the Minister also pointed out, are extremely important and valuable in this regard. The money must be made more efficient and, yes, it is for the clubs and athletes and the mobility to do its work, and it is absolutely worthwhile to direct it there. It is also valuable that top-level sport has been raised to the level it deserves. It is, in fact, inspiring, moving for all of us. I remember as a little boy when Matti Nykänen jumped in Lahti, we jumped in Viertola, and this is how it happens today by airstrips, basketball and everything else. We need models, and we need more of them in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u38	Madam President! This report on sports policy, which Mr Puumala has expertly presented to us, is indeed an important piece of paper, and many good points are raised here. I myself would like to emphasise in particular the importance of the third sector, the increasing impact of sports clubs on young people. Similarly, the share of school exercise should be developed and increased. An hour of exercise per day has been a good goal, and that is how young people will perhaps learn this miracle of Iceland also in Finland in the future. There's a lot of top athletes in this room, too. They are examples to us that, after top-level sports, when we start taking things forward, we will remember this basic team, sports clubs, young people. That is how we will be able to offer these top athletes to the world in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u39	Congressman Wallin, Harry, then Minister, and then we'll go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u40	Mr President! I do not know how you colleagues know the current situation in that field. I personally sponsored the football hobby of an 11-year-old young boy for over 100 euros a month in Tampere because if I didn't sponsor, he would have to quit his hobby because of the family's financial situation. This is quite the case for many young people at the moment. So the social contributions are so high, at the worst 500 euros a month in hockey, that we cannot afford it for ordinary families, especially single-parent families, if there is unemployment. So that's when you have to get your grandparents in on this. Now we are talking a little like at the top level in this debate on this issue. We have an S-Kiekko in Seinäjoki, who plays hockey in the Suomi series. There is the NitroS puck, the Pensioners' Sports Club, and we have held church concerts, with the proceeds of which a scholarship is given to the club fees of children with little money, but it only helps once, it is not continuous support. I would just say this from the grass-roots point of view: the money to support social activities, as did Mrs Arhinmäki when she was a minister, rather than that for top sports. Here in the field, that's the money we need. Top athletes can do it through sponsorship anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u41	Congressman Multala, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u42	Mr President! It has to be said that, if you look at top athletes, most of the athletes who practice, many of them are students, finance their sports with student loans. In fact, it is very difficult to get sponsor money in Finland and especially for young athletes whose results are still expected, i.e. those who are potential but have to practice as much as the top. In fact, in Finland, the sponsor money market lags considerably behind where we are in Sweden, for example, and we are at a completely different level when it is quite unusual to say that it is the only thing that athletes can do. At least if I looked at this matter from my own experience, I would not have made it to the top and made it, stayed there for more than a decade without the support of the public sector, the state and the municipality, and the Society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u43	There are more speeches to be made. Let's take these short: Kosonen, Arhinmäki, Wall and Pauli Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u44	Madam President! I can very well agree with Mr Multala's view that state aid is also needed for top athletes. Perhaps still such an individual athlete's view in particular: because it has really been studied that a large proportion of individual athletes at the top are at the poverty line in terms of their income, so all support is important. Public support in Finland is at about the same level as in other Nordic countries, but as Multala has just said, it is precisely business aid that needs to be involved in a stronger whole. That is why I would see, especially among young people, that, in the joint phase, when young people are thinking precisely at the threshold of the breakthrough to which part of life to invest, public support must be involved, and that is what we have invested EUR 1 million in this period. This is small money, but it's going to make a hell of a lot of money. This has been a very commendable change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u45	Madam President! It is always said that money would be the recipe for returning Finnish sport to the path of success. If it were, we should do better than we did 10 or 15 years ago. In fact, the odds have increased so far, and in fact the share of top-level sport funding has increased. The problem is not that our public funding for top-level sport would not be at the same level as in the other Nordic countries, just as Mr Kosonen said here, but that the problem is that the big gäppi comes from private funding if compared with the other Nordic countries. In particular, young athletes who break into the top stage, promising athletes are the group that, in particular, does not receive these sponsor incomes and who have difficulty in making that last leap or last kick so that they can get right to the top, and that is what we have been trying to find a solution to. It is important, but the big picture is, of course, that the mobility of children and young people needs to be invested in and structured on the ground.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u46	Yeah, I didn't want to argue about this between top sports and children's sports, but I'm just asking how many of you each month participate in the sponsorship of some kid's sports because if you didn't do this, that sport would stop.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u47	There are now a little too many replies at this stage. We will continue later, but here we have Mr Kiuru Pauli, Mr Mikkonen, Mr Puumala and Mr Jarva, and then we will go to the Minister's speech. Well, we'll take the debatt later.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u48	Madam President! Wallin brought an interesting point of view and an opportune point of view. Of course, not everyone has the financial means to go that way, but, as I said in my previous speech, this voluntary service and that time is at least worth more than the financial support that one can expect and expect from a private person. There are also significant opportunities for this sponsorship and cooperation with business and others. It has been said that we do not know how to market sport, how to sponsor and do this in a meaningful way, but that has now been trained. For example, Jyväskylä University of Applied Sciences has a training programme related to sports management and marketing. We are talking about knowledge, education and then, in a cross-administrative way, it is linked to sport and exercise, where there is considerable potential for taking things forward in such a way that the euro also moves forward in a positive way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u49	Mr President! I think this is a very important point of view: it is quite true that it is too expensive for many children and many families to engage in clubs and it is good that these company support has also been directed to such more recreational activities, low-threshold activities, because, especially when there is a very goaly sport, the amount of exercise is great, the race trips take a lot of money and it is important that we can ensure that everyone has the opportunity to move. I am pleased that the committee's report has specifically highlighted the fact that the Committee on Education agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Finance that the margin for funding physical activity should be allocated primarily to sports activities that promote public health and hence the economy, and it is more essential from the point of view of public finances to promote physical activity that promotes public health. I would have asked the Minister: here the role of the Olympic Committee has been raised, which plays an important role in promoting health and everyday sports, so could you open this up a little bit more, because I personally think that the Olympic Committee, in which the associations of species are first and foremost a member, is, however, rather geared towards racing and top sports.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u50	Mr President! When it comes to this social activity, it is particularly important to have the resources available to directors, coaches, volunteers and professionals alike, because it is what gives the child and young person the opportunity to do so. It is the most significant cost there and that is what we must invest in, on behalf of the public sector and the business sector, so that there is no need for private sponsorship to ensure that each child can have at least one hobby in the sport he wants. Mr President! I would have drawn attention to the military service, perhaps it has still been mentioned. We find in those tests and Cooper's tests that the condition of the young generation has deteriorated. Important work is being done in the Defence Forces to ensure that the reserve remains in good condition and that it is prepared there already during the military service. But next season we would have reason to launch a comprehensive pilot project in the municipalities, where municipalities would offer free and state-supported exercise before entering the service, so that the condition could be improved. Above all, the call for the future, including women, would be launched and the exercise guidance provided in good time. This will have a significant impact on life-wide physical activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u51	And then Mr. Puumala. Then let us take Mr Elomaa's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u52	Mr President! The big picture: I do not think there is any confrontation between top-level sports and physical activity, between children and young people. Both need each other. When the people move and it is good for everyone in health, they also become those peaks. Then, when the peaks come, they feed new youths to go downhill or to try football or hockey or basketball or anything. Both are needed. But this point raised by Mrs Wallin is important: how can we still find ways to have a hobby with as many people as possible, preferably for everyone? That is where the afternoons we were talking about here are extremely important. The clubs could be carrying out that activity from there in the afternoons. And I would like to ask the Minister: what is going on with this concept of general licensing at the moment? I mean, there are a lot of experiments going on that one license could try out or engage in many kinds, many kinds of company. It would be one step in the direction that the threshold would be as low as possible for starting a hobby and carrying it out in the company. What more could we do in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u53	Representative Elomaa, then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u54	Mr President! Of course it is that you have to try to influence it early when you talk about immobility, so that families grow up to move together from a very young age and with a group and then it goes further in life all the way to adulthood and beyond. One hobby for everyone at least, even one that can be pricey, should be possible for all children, young people. And then the elderly move. From top-level sports, companies are still quite minimally involved in Finland. That is why top-level sport needs support, because we all want to go there to the squares and the turous, when Finland has done well, and it cannot be done without additional funding. Funding is an important point, but of course everything starts from childhood and youth, that we also get good athletes to the top.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u55	Then, Minister, please. Maybe five minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u56	Mr President! I will not take a position on this last debate now except by answering Mrs Wallin's question, that I share the same view as many others here, that top sports and public health are not opposites, but that top athletes are encouraging us all to move, and, accordingly, top athletes will not be born if we do not have that public health exercise and if not everyone can try regardless of their wealth. Then, at the beginning of the debate, there was a lot of reference to this constant problem of the public sector, that it is not just an accident that there will be more bureaucracy when a report is made by the public sector that bureaucracy will become clearer. Undoubtedly, this must always be guarded. The aid systems are being clarified, and I have often already experienced the difficulties of the organisations themselves in this system and it leads to recovery or even legal proceedings at its worst. Parliament also specifically proposed to me that a coordinating body be set up to improve cross-sectoralism, and it is here that, when new bodies are set up, they are needed on the one hand but, on the other hand, we must be careful not to create unnecessary bureaucracy. This brings us to this intersectoralism, which is what the former Minister, Mr Arhinmäki, who is well acquainted with the issue, and many others also stressed: It will certainly continue to be a development topic during the next parliamentary term, and also on the basis of this report — how to get the state, municipalities, clubs, schools, families to work as smoothly as possible so that young people can move around the school premises while their parents are still working, get proper training at that time, and how to organise rides and sports places so that this can be done. Mr Kivelä raised the question of the reserve of bets, which is a very important issue for the future. The fact that exercise and its development are so heavily tied to the money of the state is a restriction that is likely to be an ever greater restriction in the very near future. If we commit ourselves to this only form of funding, this will be retaliatory to the development of our physical activity, so it is very important that we gradually move towards budgetary resources, including in the promotion of physical activity. All in all, I thank the constructive tone of the debate, because the parliamentary term, as we know, only contains four parliamentary working days, one of which is already on the way, so it is very important that we all have a positive attitude to the fact that these issues will be raised in the next parliamentary term and in the government negotiations on various occasions much more prominently than they have ever been raised in the past. This is certainly an opportunity, partly because of the costs of this report, partly because of the increased level of mobility that has been understood in this parliamentary term, and in general because there is a clear attitude here from one party to another, because everyone needs to be better able to move and, in particular, to find ways of encouraging and helping those who have some obstacles to it, such as economics or others. So, for my part, I am very happy with this process. It has been constructive and good and will hopefully lead to concrete measures during the next parliamentary term, and in part it has already led to what I myself have been putting in motion during this parliamentary term. — Thank you, everyone!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u57	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u58	Madam President! In fact, the report on sports policy and the report of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, at least for myself, was the research report which was annexed to the report on sports policy. It also gave me new insights and insights. What is extremely important, as the report mentions, is the management of information, the establishment of a policy of physical activity, which is increasingly researched. Madam President! In my speech, I focus on the exercise of children and young people, because the physical way of life learned as a child is the one that carries through life. On the other hand, physical activity as a child and as a young person is one of the best ways to make friends, to make friends, to have social circles, and, if excluded from physical activity at an early stage, then in many other ways they are excluded from society. A large and unfortunate trend over the past ten years has been the rise in the price of physical activity. This can be seen directly in the fact that more and more families report that children’s mobility, hobbies, are hindered by excessive leisure fees. Already about 30 percent of families mention hobby fees as an obstacle. This means that this is not just about the poorest families, but about working, ordinary Finnish families. Therefore, in my view, our most important task is to consider what we do to ensure that every child has the right to a hobby. Social assistance is an important element in this. As a minister, I increased the follow-up aid from less than EUR 2 million to EUR 5 million. It is directed precisely as follow-up support so that it reduces the costs of hobbies and enables every child and young person to move. In December last year, Parliament finally raised its support to the 5 million that came down after my period. As stated in this report, we must increase the amount of social aid. It must be one of the ways in which we push down too high a hobby cost. But I believe that social support is only a step towards a more far-reaching solution. Some have already raised the so-called Icelandic model in the speeches. After all, the Icelandic model means that immediately after school day there are hobbies and society strongly supports this exercise, so that every child is entitled to at least one hobby after school day. It is also a particularly good model because we now have children coming home from school to wait for parents to drive their parents to hobbies. In fact, the family often has very little time together. The Finnish version of the Icelandic model would mean that the family would also have more time together. I am very pleased that my own town decided to explore the introduction of the Icelandic model in Helsinki, its own version. Madam President! However, it is not enough to engage alone in clubs. Studies show that only about half of children and young people who are active sports enthusiasts in clubs are able to move sufficiently in comparison to sports recommendations. Therefore, exercise is also needed in other everyday activities. The mobile school, which has tried to bring exercise all the time into the school day, has been a success. The mobile school must be extended to day-care centres, to secondary and higher education, as set out in the report and the report. Another important point, particularly in the case of young children, which emerged from this research material and which Mr Multala, in particular, has raised as an important issue, is that children and parents should move together. In the case of young children, it is the best, most effective movement. How can we support it even more? It may be that, shortly before the elections, this is a political suicide for a Member of Parliament in Helsinki, but I applaud Turkey. Turku has the Children's Sports Wonderland concept, where in nine different places every Sunday families can move together free of charge, not by directing themselves, but by working together. This should be modeled as a municipality, open up their school halls on Sunday mornings for the exercise of families with children, for free activities. There are ready balls, paints, bats, mattresses, all you have to do is open the doors, and the halls will be filled. For example, yesterday at the Helsinki Council, I took the initiative on this issue in Helsinki. In other words, there is a need for a big change, and especially for every child and young person to have the opportunity, the right and the right to exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u59	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. We Finns are moving far too little at the moment. Only one in five Finns moves according to recommendations, and the cost of immobility is calculated in billions each year, as we have heard many times. A lot of new thinking and new measures are needed to make us all move more and more. The report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media on the report on sport policy has been the result of good cooperation, and I would therefore like to thank the whole committee for that good cooperation in this context. We all share the common concern about the challenges of immobility. Mr President! The foundation of Finnish top-level sport is its wide-ranging operating base. Volunteering plays an important role in the daily lives of clubs and in the mobility of children and young people in general. I think it is wrong to put the top sport and the hobby or the movement against each other. Everything is needed: without children and young people moving freely in everyday life together with parents, let alone in day-care centres and schools, we also have no active social activity, let alone top-notch sports. However, we need a clearer division of labour between the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Olympic Committee, and this process is already very well advanced. — — — — In fact, in the middle of the question by Mr Mikkonen: After all, the new Olympic Committee has been combined from Light and before that from SLU, the Finnish Sports and Sport, which is an organisation of fitness and health sports, of course an organisation of organised sports. The Olympic Committee really today represents both this side and then organized social activities and top sports. In the work now under way, the Ministry and There has been further clarification between the Olympic Committee and the fact that the Olympic Committee is in charge of Finnish top sports. But that does not mean that these other things are less important. And, in particular, the Olympic Committee's top sports unit is the one that belongs to leading top sports. The report can also be attributed to the recognition and recognition of the need to finance physical activity. In the 2020s, funding for state-of-the-art sport is proposed to be increased through the capitalisation of the Olympic Fund and through the opening up of the budget and through cross-administrative means. Based on the expert opinions received by the committee, efforts should be made to strengthen the overall funding of physical activity so that, by 2030, the funding of top-notch sport has increased by around EUR 30 million per year. And when we take all these measures presented in the sports policy report for the various years, we talk about hundreds of millions of investments. It remains for the future government to consider the timetable and order in which these measures can be implemented. As the previous speaker noted, the most impressive way of making up sports lifestyles is through exercise and exercise in early childhood together with parents. That is why I feel that it is particularly important to strengthen the role of maternity clinics as a promoter of the importance of physical activity and also to ensure that the pilot that has been launched in early childhood education is consolidated and extended during the next parliamentary term to all early childhood education, because that is where early childhood education and the children of early childhood are the source of those sports habits. In addition, the Mobility School approach is well established and is already being carried out in many municipalities. Mobility at secondary and tertiary level must also be taken seriously, because, like other adults, students also move too little. What would be extremely important, which I hope will also be an intersectoral approach, is to strengthen preventive health care, particularly on the health promotion side and also on the medical side, so that health professionals are also trained to understand the importance of physical activity, mobility in a more comprehensive way in promoting health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u60	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! It is a great moment for Parliament to discuss a report on sports policy, a comprehensive document that views sport and sport widely throughout their sphere of influence. As has been said here today, Finland needs more exercise. The costs of our immobility, sitting and being present are already higher than in fact the municipalities' total sports budgets, and that is why it is worth turning this course and going to compete for the title of the most mobile municipality in Finland, for example for every municipality. Sport plays an important role in this as a whole, and I think it is very important that attention be paid to this in urban planning. I myself have been allowed to attend the State Sports Council for 12 years and also hold the section for its construction, and one time I remember the observation of an expert: ‘Have you paid attention to the construction of a day-care centre or school,and usually the nearest place for adult parking? Couldn't the cars be a little further away? Take that yard to active exercise and activity.” I think it's worth a while. Or, second, whether a school bus — or, of course, a parent in general — needs to bring children at least close to that school, but if so, could it be at the end of a safe road, such as a bicycle road, perhaps half a mile away? We'd get that exercise of our own again like we didn't notice in those days. And there's one of the gymnasiums around here. I personally hope that, in the future, every sports project, when you build ice halls, ballrooms, school gyms, you always make a nearby exercise place, a few racks that would also serve, for example, in warming up and starting your own shift. Otherwise, it would be advantageous and sensible to invest in easy exercise nearby. There's been a lot of talk here about moving school. It has now been extended to secondary and early childhood education. In my opinion, the aim must be to have a mobile lifestyle in Finland, and that is certainly what this is all about. The hobby moon, club support, hobby pass, the Finnish model of the Icelandic model — they have been on display many times today and have certainly been shared by everyone together. And an assessment of the effects of physical activity is one that would be worthwhile in each municipality, i.e. considering each time some decisions are made whether they increase or reduce physical activity and exercise opportunities. Sports and top-notch sports will then come with this. The position of athletes and coaches during a career must be strengthened, but also after a career. I also underline the importance of coaching alongside sportsmen. This sport has been widely discussed today, and I also welcome the development that money would go more effectively to those sportsmen, sports clubs, but also that so-called exercise is needed. In other words, all sports, for example, should not be aimed at too strict a training obligation for teenage boys or girls, but also at the fact that some shifts are a little more relaxed to play and play. Mr President! I think it is important that VAT on sport and sport should be reduced to a lower rate of 10%. At the moment, some of them are a little random in the general rate of 24%, and I do not think there is any reason to continue to be that way, because the cost of physical activity and hobbies will increase by 14% if they fall into that higher VAT rate. And I think it is important that in Parliament too, we have been very united in our concern about the future of Veikkaus, because the returns of Veikkaus are currently used to finance sport, sport, but also youth work, culture, art in large parts. Securing the performance of Veikkaus is of paramount importance in the upcoming spring Government Programme negotiations, and I believe that regulation and control solutions should be targeted primarily at foreign gaming companies, their advertising in Finland through our TV channels and TV channels that are transmitted to Finland, but also through different channels on the Internet, for example. ♪ So you don't control your own ♪ Our guess is to kill — it is a good, milking cow — but, above all, to place the stakes in illegal foreign activities that Finnish legislation does not allow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u61	Mr President! Now, this report on sports policy and the subsequent report on information policy gave the members of the Committee on Culture a great deal of pleasure to listen to important experts. We learned a lot and got a lot of new things. I would also like to thank Mr Tuomo Puumala, Chairman of the Committee on Education and Culture, and Mr Sari Multala, Vice-President of the Committee, for their excellent work and cooperation, which is now, in a way, a model example of which this report on sport policy is a report. On the same occasion, I would also like to thank the Socialist members of the committee, Mrs Eloranta and Mrs Torst, for the excellent cooperation which is also reflected in this connection. Of these excellent experts, I have before me Professor Itkonen's statement, in which he also raised the polarization of mobility in an interesting way by dividing the travelers into four groups: lusters, active riders, random travelers, and small-scale travelers — notice, small-scale travelers. So we are no longer allowed to speak and use the term 'unmoveable'. No one will be immobile, hopefully, after this. He also noted that studies have shown that socio-economic status and education affect the level of physical activity. The lack of financial capital in particular affects physical activity. The committee also decided unanimously to state that our clear line is to give every support to the organisation of low-threshold exercise. And I must say that personally, although the concept of daily exercise and the importance of all daily exercise have been clear to me for a long time, in fact, this expert consultation only strengthened and deepened the understanding of the importance of daily exercise. I would also like to mention the statement made by this committee, which strongly highlights the promotion of physical activity, particularly in those groups of students and students who are the least mobile. In my comment an hour ago, I referred, for example, to students in vocational schools. I have also been saddened by the fact that there are many of these lessons, even days, that there is at least no actively organized study, for example, that it would not be possible to spend more time on guided mobility and healing and maintenance. The committee, either directly or indirectly, also takes a strong position on this type of exercise and also cultural activity in connection with school day. This is practically one of the future lines of social democrats. After all, the aim of the SDP is to reform the morning and afternoon activities, at least in the spirit of this Icelandic model, with a flexible school day. In other words, school staff, producers of art and culture and sports and youth organisations can participate in the organisation of hobbies in cooperation, but the responsibility for a flexible school day rests with the municipalities, who must be responsible for organising the activities and also for the quality of the activities. This was also supported by my own Federation of Species, the Finnish Balls Association, which stated in its written opinion: ‘Avisiofires,in particular for primary school-age children,but also for young people,that all follow-up activities could take place mainly on schooldays beforetheclock16-17. “ In other words, there is a broad common will that the day of school should be developed in this direction, and I also regard it as a matter of great importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u62	Madam President! It is great that, thanks to Minister Terho, Parliament now has a first report on sports policy in history. It is good for the next government to continue this work to promote mobility. Too little mobility leads to considerable costs for society, in the same category as unemployment. This government has managed to reduce unemployment; the next government must take action to reduce immobility. This report has made good reference to physical activity-related entities. I particularly like the point where it is mentioned that the government is actively promoting club and hobby activities and hobby coverage for all children and young people, regardless of the financial situation of the family, in cooperation with schools, sports and other clubs and other third sector actors. I believe that this is one of the most important points in the report. Another important point is that the government is looking for ways to develop and improve the financial position of athletes and professional and volunteer coaches. Work to get a young person to the top usually starts with voluntary coaches. It is easy to take an athlete in when someone has raised him almost to the top. In addition to this report, including a hobby pass, a few things have been accomplished during this period in the field of physical activity. A hobby pass is an app aimed at all upper secondary school students that allows them to find a favourite hobby. The application can be downloaded, for example, free trial sessions, continuous hobbies, tickets and other benefits. In addition to municipalities, the contents of a hobby passport can be offered by companies, foundations, social welfare and health services and associations. An hour of exercise a day is also a good innovation. The Government extended the Mobility School project to national level for primary and secondary schools. I believe that these reforms are more than good reforms. Personally, I understand that exercise is eternal, lasts all your life. We parliamentarians should set an example here for others. I myself have wrestled at the SM level in five decades, and the next SM competition will be in April. Welcome to see!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u64	Mr President! The report on sports policy and also the report from the Committee on Education and Culture highlights the price of immobility and, on the other hand, the health effects of physical activity. The annual social costs of non-mobility amount to several billion euros. The promotion of physical activity is an important investment in well-being, in which the euro invested comes back many times over, and that is why we are talking about a very important issue today. No one can be forced to move, but we can make more efforts to enable physical activity to be made comprehensively available at all stages of life and wherever people are, i.e. early childhood education, basic education, upper secondary schools, higher education institutions, the Defence Forces, working life, social and health care services and services for the elderly. The important thing is to awaken the physical way of life in childhood and continue it to old age. Unfortunately, this principle is not sufficiently implemented, and I am taking the services that are to be taken home to the elderly, for example, the elderly who are there in their own home. One of the most important areas for home care development should be increasing rehabilitative work and as the cornerstone of rehabilitative work is everyday chores and outdoor activities and exercise. In addition, there is also a need for various kinds of open rehabilitation and rehabilitation activities, but it is all based on outdoor activities and exercise. Currently, the planning of care and care in home care is based on the type of ready-made service structures, such as commercial and catering services, for a person, and not on how to support his or her ability to function. According to Professor Taina Rantanen's research, the services brought home reduce the activity and services of the elderly. Instead, older people must be helped to move out, outdoors and hobbies, as they are the most important things in maintaining the physical, mental and cognitive ability of the elderly. Any departure from home is essential to the mental, social and physical ability of an elderly person. Many older people may not want to go walking, but if we go to a store or a concert, things will change. Leaving the home should be regular, since the survey has shown that the longer an elderly person has not gone out, the more difficult it becomes for him psychologically. Studies have also highlighted the fact that when you stop travelling outside, a long step is taken towards moving from home to service housing. Transport services enable an elderly person to deal with, participate in and manage social relations. The granting of journeys to older people under the Social Welfare Act should be strengthened, so as to ensure that older people can use these services. Barriers to transport services shall not impede their use. A personal assistant enables lonely, multi-diseased, elderly people to be involved and a good and functional everyday life. Mobility can be promoted by leaving the taxi a little earlier and walking even part of the trip to a concert or shop. Older people living in a community home must also have the right to move and engage in activities outside the community home. Mr President! The promotion of health and well-being is a matter for municipalities, so it is also a matter of looking towards the municipalities. Unfortunately, in many municipalities the promotion of health and well-being has not been taken seriously enough and, for example, the management of health and well-being does not seem to belong to anyone. The municipalities swear to the names of intersectoral cooperation, but if no one directs and directs this intersectoral cooperation, it will not happen. In addition, in many municipalities most of the appropriations allocated to the sports activity are used for fixed expenses such as farm rents, staff, machinery and so on. So the exercise service maintains fixed structures. For the remaining money, the largest single item of expenditure may be grants to sports clubs. In addition, municipal sports services are strongly built around sports clubs. So there is nothing wrong with this, but, in terms of effectiveness, investments should be directed towards the activation of movements outside organised sports clubs, i.e. those who are not actively seeking to engage in sports activities. Mobility has become more and more polarised, but municipalities and their physical activity are all too often tied up in measures to promote those who are already sufficiently mobile from the point of view of their health. So we still have a lot of work to do at every level.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u65	Mr President! I too would like to add my thanks, firstly for this debate, but also to the committee for a good report and also to the minister for finally having this report on sport policy here in the Chamber for discussion. Mr President! If we start looking at this issue with a little bigger brush, one fifth of Finnish children are overweight when they come to school. I think this is wrong for these children, and something must be done about it. We must already be able to do better in child health clinics and early childhood education institutions. Many times in early childhood education in kindergartens teachers are not pedagogically talented to move these children, or places there are not gymnastics friendly, so there is much to develop. Almost half of the children and young people and their parents consider it too expensive to move. It's totally wrong for this society. The dropout phenomenon now begins at the age of 11 to 13, when these children have not even learned the physical way of life, unlike if they were 15 to 17 years old, they would have learned the physical way of life and would thus take some kind of root in their future lives. The fact that about half of children in hobbies do not move enough in terms of their health is also extremely worrying. For these reasons, we did this Mobility School project this season, which has been a success story. It should therefore be extended to universities and early childhood education in the next period, and especially to the professional side, because there is little exercise there. Then we should discuss such things in society, that when we go to secondary school, that's where the exercise stops. In fact, the best way for secondary school students to increase physical activity is to have single schools. Then they will see these young ones, the children moving there, so that movement will not become a threshold for them either. Of course, the state and the municipalities play an important role in this intersectoralism. It is clear that there must be much better cooperation between the various ministries in the future. In my opinion, this impact assessment in certain different pieces of legislation would be very important, so that there will also be a strong focus on physical activity in the future. The fact that we are giving money to unions every year from the State Sports Council, without knowing correctly how much money it will ultimately end up there at grass roots level, and precisely because of the fact that it would not be expensive, is a problem for us. I would therefore like to see more powerful tools available for us to be able to follow where the money ends up, and precisely the cost of doing so would be one of the starting points for distributing this money. Then perhaps we would be able to push down the price of doing so. There has been a lot of talk here about taxation. Personally, I do not understand that when a sports entrepreneur takes a yoga lesson for ten people and moves a hand even for the whole hour, then the VAT is lower, and then when the same sports entrepreneur moves those same ten people with the next hour’s tennis bat, then the VATi rises. We should definitely get some kind of rat for this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u69	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the opinion of the Committee on Education that the report on sport policy is an important opening for the development of Finnish sports policy, and also to thank the chairman and representatives of the Committee on Culture for having received a good report. It highlights a number of areas of development. This report is therefore a good piece of paper which will give the future government a comprehensive lunch to prepare concrete plans to promote the movement. After all, Finland was to be the most mobile nation in the world by 2020. Unfortunately, this objective is at least a round at a time. It would now be important for the post-election government to record clear lyrics in its programme in terms of sports policy and to take concrete steps to overcome the developments and other challenges mentioned in the report. I strongly believe that there is a good will to promote physical activity across party boundaries. Now that the reform of social services has gone down and the government has been involved in it, concrete measures are increasingly needed to achieve substantial savings, for example in the health sector. The cost of health care has risen considerably this millennium. In addition to the economic aspect, physical activity plays an enormous role in education and doing things together, as well as in the alertness of people. We Finns have been supporting investments in the promotion of physical activity for a long time. As a former professional athlete and one who worked in the welfare sector, it feels good to see our party’s exercise as a means of increasing the well-being of Finns and achieving substantial savings in health spending. In addition to the decrease in the total volume of movement, Finland’s key challenge is that some of our young people, especially and people, citizens, usually move very much, but a very large proportion of them do not move at all or do not move enough. This is a key problem for the next government to solve. There are many reasons for this lack of mobility. Lack of money is one of them. Supporting families and children with low incomes is one concrete way of meeting this challenge. In fact, the Finns have suggested a hobby month that would allow at least one pleasant hobby for children and young people. In addition to supporting families, supporting clubs can have some impact on the price of hobbies. The follow-up grants can also help to guide clubs to organise even more low-threshold activities and encourage the organisation of more affordable leisure options. Efforts are needed to organise low-threshold physical activity. Regional disparities are quite large in terms of sports opportunities. Here, too, the state must intervene and strive to ensure that Finns are as equal as possible in terms of sports services, regardless of the postal code. For example, existing village fields should not be allowed to deteriorate due to small savings. The report also highlighted the promotion of physical life guidance and sports counselling. True Finns also support the goal of sharpening municipal sports advice, and I myself have prepared several written questions about hiring personal trainers in municipalities, for example. In sports policy decision-making, you must remember that all exercise is good exercise. This means investing not only in sport clubs and sports facilities, but also in promoting, for example, commuting or walking. In particular, cooperation between health care and physical activity must be intensified at all levels of decision-making. The creation of a coordinating body for sport policy proposed in the report, appointed by the Government and led by the Ministry of Education and Culture, is a good idea in order to clarify and enhance cross-sectoral cooperation. But it's the key to everything. Finnish top-level sport is not at the best possible speed measured by a race of values. The report highlights the problems of our organisation-led and state-led top-level sports system and the need for additional funding. It is a good thing that problems have started to be identified and admitted, but they must be genuinely corrected immediately. Exercise needs more funding. The Finns also welcome the permanent funding of physical activity from the state budget, not only in the future, but also in the future. We need to start working on this as soon as possible. The euro invested in physical activity in the first place will pay for itself. Of course, I am in favour of an increase in the state exercise budget. If billions of savings can be achieved, it is worth investing hundreds of millions. Mr President! Finally, we are concerned about increasing mental health problems, loneliness, bullying and exclusion. We need a sense of community, and one remedy for this is more mobility and more respect for voluntary work and also less bureaucracy. Overall, the report highlights the current state of Finnish physical activity and its challenges. I hope that this report will strengthen the focus on sports policy here in Parliament as well in the coming period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u70	Madam President! Finland is a sports country and a Finnish sports nation. Yet all the studies show that we are moving far too little. This is regrettable because physical activity has a positive impact on disease prevention, health care and rehabilitation, and physical activity or actually immobility also has a major economic impact on Finnish society. Now we are dealing with the first report on sport policy prepared by the Government, which contains many proposals for measures to increase physical activity and also to develop sport. In addition to important fitness exercise, the goal is to turn Finnish top sports back to the path of success. That's a good thing. Among other things, a gradual increase in the amount of physical education in primary schools in the 2020s with a minimum of three days a week spent by a trained teacher is noteworthy. Similarly, extending the Mobility School project to a secondary level in some form and also to higher education is very important. It is also important that employers in business and industry realise that mobile workers are an important resource for companies. The responsibility for leading top sports presented in the report would be transferred to the Olympic Committee's top sports unit and the Olympic Fund to be set up, and the State will invest EUR 20 million in it. I believe that the system of national sports organisations and federations should be simplified so that top-level sport can also be supported more flexibly in the future. Another good feature of the sports policy report is that it takes into account the importance of building a sports place. Mobility must be made as easy as possible. It is made possible by good local sports facilities, sports facilities, outdoor routes and other versatile opportunities, and urban planning is also important in this respect. Municipalities can contribute to the construction and design of outdoor routes and light transport routes. That is also important in the future. Exercise and sport are always worth investing in, and what has also been highlighted in this debate must not be put against physical exercise and top sports, but both are needed, that is important. Sport clubs, voluntary organisations are doing an extremely valuable job, which should be lifted to the respect it deserves. You can't just do it with money, you can't do it with money. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u71	Madam President! Much has been said about the health effects of exercise. Yet we all know that it is sometimes difficult to get yourself moving. Only about one in four Finnish adults fulfils the current recommendation for exercise. It would be important for each of us to find the joy of moving, rather than pursuing performance-centred and outwardly defined ideals. Mobility should be a natural part of everyday life at all stages of life. Exercise is good for the body, but it is good for the mind. Recreation in nature is an important form of exercise, but at the same time it also plays a special role in promoting the well-being of the mind and reducing stress. The importance of archiving, cycling and walking is central to the well-being of both people and the environment. They reduce climate emissions and help to keep the air clean from pollution. The increase in active modes of transport is both a climate and a health act. Mr President! The well-being of children and young people in particular must be a priority if effectiveness and results are to be desired throughout the human life cycle. The recommendation for exercise is met by about half of primary school-age children, but clearly less than 20 per cent of ninth-graders. In many schools, sport has been invested in the Mobility School project. The project has been very successful and has reached about 90% of comprehensive school pupils. Schools have developed practices that increase the physical activity of children and reduce sitting during school days, and have improved the exercise of school facilities and yards. The financing of the project has ended, and it is now important that effective practices remain permanent. A mobile school is also needed by non-basic school pupils. I therefore warmly support the report's recommendation that similar programmes should also be introduced at other levels of education. Every child deserves a hobby. Services provided by sports clubs, other organisations and municipalities play an important role here. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all children and young people, regardless of their parents’ wealth, have access to participation. Mr President! Important voluntary work is carried out in sports clubs. Without the contributions of volunteers, many Finns would move significantly less. It is important to ensure the resources and opportunities for follow-up work. Currently, legislation and practices relating to volunteering do not meet the needs of grassroots actors. The rules on the remuneration of volunteers and reimbursement of expenses are unclear and complex. It is difficult for clubs to anticipate what the tax authorities consider to be tax-free activities of general interest and potentially taxable business activities. This needs to be clarified and the duty-free treatment of activities of general interest guaranteed. In addition to the important work carried out by the clubs, we must also remember the importance of self-motivated exercise. Even in the exercise of children and young people, self-motivated exercise is important and its share increases with age. It is therefore necessary to ensure that different sports facilities are easy to use also in the exercise of self-motivated exercise. Mr President! It is good to remember that not everyone’s ability to move is the same. At least 15 percent of the population, or more than 800,000 people, have functional limitations. Some of these are elderly people whose ability has been weakened by crevices and diseases. Supported physical activity and guidance are needed for people with less ability to move. This means accessibility, e.g. assistance for people with reduced mobility, which makes it possible to leave home for sports, disabled sports or special sports groups, but also the possibility to move in public groups or participate in sport open to all. The pilot project proposed in the report, which increases physical activity in the home services of the elderly and in the services of the elderly, is very much to be welcomed. Mr President! Making exercise possible and encouraging physical activity is a common cause for our society as a whole. It requires cross-border management and implementation of the administrative sector. For example, planning and urban planning in municipalities play an extremely important role in promoting everyday sports. Light traffic is one of the most used sports facilities. The funding of sport policy also needs to be strengthened. The importance of the bet for the funding of physical activity is paramount, and we must ensure that the role of Veikkaus remains strong in the future. I also consider it justified to consider VAT practices and the transfer of sports services to the zero tax category. The cost of non-mobility to society is at least equivalent to the savings that the social reform aims to achieve. The promotion of physical activity and health therefore has a significant impact on public finances and its sustainability. Above all, increasing physical activity also increases the well-being of people, both physically and mentally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u72	Madam President! Today we are debating a report on sport policy, and I am sure you can say jointly that we are very much in agreement on the need and content of this report. Mobility in itself is a natural way for people to move from one place to another, but it is clear that the importance of mobility today is quite different from that sometimes decades or centuries ago. Health exercise is essential for all of us and, of course, there is considerable potential for home, family, school and society to influence people's ways of moving. When I was young, I also used to compete, and the way you learn at a young age usually remains for adults and older people. It's important that it stays with you for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u75	Mr President! Firstly, it is easy to begin by thanking Mrs Puumala and Mr Multala and then to Mr Gustafsson, the chairman and vice-chairman of the Committee on Education, which are both in the Chamber, and then to the leader of my group. After all, we had the most extensive hearings on this report, at least in my own parliamentary term in a certain way, which is probably also reflected in the report. In other words, if this knowledge base does not get citizens to move and the condition of Finns to move up, then at least then it will be difficult to think much more about such political means in order to develop the knowledge base. The fact that we created in this knowledge base, perhaps at least myself, was most startled by this fact, which was now analysed in a number of ways, that is, how strongly mobility is differentiated between different population groups by different indicators of segregation. One figure reaches a population that is just after childhood and just before a strong adulthood, i.e. secondary school students. If one in five high school students and one in four young people in vocational education and training are at present moving too little in terms of their health — that is, one in five high school students and one in four young people in vocational education and training are moving too little — then we have quite a ticking time bomb here, even in terms of their ability to work towards the future, and at the very latest it must be a wake-up call for the fact that, in a sense, the continuation of the current situation is not reasonable for society and can be very damaging to these individuals. Mr President! In my own speech, I thought to make three brief points, perhaps a little on the side of the solutions: on the one hand, children, on the other hand, grandmothers and papats, that is, the ageing population, and on the other hand, sports clubs. Of the children, perhaps the solution has been in the SDP for a long time in such extensive political preparation, which has been linked to the overall school day-to-day thinking. Perhaps 15 years ago, I remember writing about it for the first time, when I didn’t even think I was a political influence, just from such a practical point of view that it doesn’t make much sense that especially smaller schoolchildren are alone at home for long periods of time and then, in a way, the whole family’s evening time is spent in a different kind of hobby ramba, that it’s not good for the family’s dynamics either. Now we see this in a variety of contexts, also as a structural issue, and it must be time to move towards this kind of flexible school day package. Why don't we go to it first by expanding the club activity or by what model, but I'm sure the direction is pretty clear if we take these different messages about this separation process seriously. I myself visit quite a lot, especially in some primary schools in Eastern Helsinki, and there is a crying need for this current need to find such a slightly more equal model for our whole school thinking. A flexible school day in a way would then also bring in the idea of a hobby moon, which I also believe has been one of these steps in this direction perhaps more than a final solution. It was therefore very gratifying to hear from the committee when, for example, we had sports clubs there, that this has already been taken forward and that they are very prepared to think together about models that could actually be used in large cities. Then briefly on this ageing part of the population. I was also pleased to discuss this report in the Committee on the Future, and we had a very good hearing there about what we actually know at the moment about the mobility of people of different ages, and what kind of exercise, exercise and exercise are precisely functional. There was the impression that we now have a lot of information to provide both for the educational sector and then for the work of municipalities in nursing homes and various services for the elderly. I absolutely agree with the estimates already presented here about the relevance of the pilot project and the maintenance and emphasising of this kind of knowledge-based approach when we talk about services and mobility for the elderly. Then, Mr President, along with children and the elderly, a few words about sports clubs. It is perhaps a slightly more complex equation in the sense that, at the same time, we have a professionalised job at hand with children, for example, for which it is worth paying compensation and rewards, and a long tradition of voluntary work. How do we combine these with this whole school day thinking, and I think there are no clear answers to it at the moment, when this is a field in which we will probably also have to have a bold dialogue now. Personally, I would like to call on the big clubs to think even more about the different scholarship models and so on in order to overcome this problem which was raised here, for example, by Mrs Wall in the debat, which means that we have children falling out of hobbies because wealth in families is not enough. So before we have a full school day, such temporary solutions can also be required from clubs when they enjoy public support. Mr President! The sum summarum: a fine report. There are these Olympic and SM athletes here, and I am modestly only a four-year basketball player, but I must say that we must be grateful to all the volunteers who set an example and also keep us Members of Parliament moving around in these clubs. That's a pleasure to do this job, isn't it? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u76	Mr President! Only second-diver footballer is starting to speak here, but, of course, it may have to be said to the top that the founder of the Oulun ONS, the current league club. So in that sense, I have done something that has really allowed children and young people in Oulu to go about football. Mr President! It is very important that we now have in our hands the Government's report on sports policy. This is a new and important opening, and it is good that this is also the subject of discussion in the Chamber. First of all, I would like to thank many of my fellow Members for their excellent contributions, and also thank the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection – Mr Puumala, Vice-President Multala and the Committee as a whole – for this good report. I agree that things have now been raised here where society can act and take them forward so that we can move children, adults and older people at every level, and we understand the importance of a good daily and mobile daily life: it is not right away that we think that everyone should be more mobile or perhaps top athletes, but precisely that we should go to that moving school, class of exercise at school and similar. In fact, I would like to raise three points to which it is important for us to pay attention, and these are society, community and voluntary work. Society in the sense of what the state can do with sports facilities, but then how a large part of our society, i.e. municipalities and cities, can do especially with planning. Much can be done with such man - size planning, that is, we make children and young people move. There is an opportunity to make it through local school and local day care decisions, such as in our family, for example, when you have been on a day-care trip for less than a mile, you can even take a child with a sledge, by bicycle and by walking together, so you don't really have to rely on that car if you can promote it also by planning, so that we have day-care centres in blocks of flats and so on. And then the municipalities can invest as well. For example, in Oulu, my home town, when I was chairman of the City Board, all of us groups together made sure that all under 18-year-olds who move around the city premises are free of charge, whether it is a school or Ouluhall or Arena — for all under 18-year-olds. And what does this mean at the city budget level? It is about a million and a half euros invested in the exercise of our children and young people in Oulu, and this is something I recommend to many municipalities. When so-called exercise unites parties across borders, you don't have to think about whether it's a party theme. It is a common theme for all that our children and young people can move around. What, then, do I mean by this social activity? In addition to society, voluntary work is needed, and very important work is done in clubs from a very educational point of view, but then also from the point of view of getting things promoted together and making it the joy of physical activity. Of course, social work requires a variety of efforts: conditions and the construction of sports facilities, and especially that they are central to places where people do not always have to travel long distances to get around. What about this community? It is very important in the sense that there are studies as to how much social factors affect people’s ability to move. I myself know that when someone asks, it is a completely different commitment. And so it is for children and young people too, but especially for the elderly, when things are done together, whether it is a service home or a morning jumble or something. Mr President, I have learned what it means to be a ‘sitting Member of Parliament’. That this job is a lot of that sitting around. And in that sense it might not be too bad for committees and others to have such little movement and movement in the sense of getting up at times. After all, it has been studied that even sitting is a deadly disease if you do it for ten hours straight. So, ladies and gentlemen, conveniently exercise and movement, and good will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u77	That is why it is good to take the floor. That's when you get up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u78	Madam President! It has been a pleasure to listen to these speeches. The report on sports policy is probably one of the few points on which there is a very positive consensus in this House. Perhaps you will find some individual emphasis on how much you need to support local activity in relation to top sports, for example, but the big picture is certainly the same for everyone, so we need to make sure that Finns are allowed to move enough, and create a framework and a society that encourages and enables everyone to move. It is great that the report has raised the issue of equality in physical activity in broad terms. I'm sure this is what's most visible in the municipalities from the perspective of the hobby moon, and for us here too. By doing so, we can make it possible for everyone to have positive physical activity experiences at a young age and thus to maintain the spark of mobility for their long, late years. I would also draw attention to active ageing and successful ageing, which is one of the major issues of our time. We should find ways of harnessing digitalisation to serve successful ageing — just as much as we should find ways to encourage digitalisation, for example, to promote the mobility of young people, rather than to reduce it, as has happened in many respects now. These are issues to which attention should be paid. For example, gambling is a good example of how to make people move more with digital tools. A few years ago we noticed the phenomenon in Finland when children began playing Pokémon Go to a very large extent, and surely those daily steps grew. Combining such light-weight physical activity with the use of a digital tool. Of course, many of us have different measuring instruments at our disposal to evaluate ourselves and monitor our own bodies, and these can also be used to promote mobility more widely. Of course, it is its own philosophical reflection, how much we want to measure ourselves and what is, in a way, reasonable here, but it is everyone's own decision, of course. The expansion of the mobile school project is very welcome and the mobility school itself has shown its strength. Feedback on the project is mainly positive. Municipalities are happy to try to promote mobility and exercise, as municipalities are under increasing pressure to reduce the costs of immobility. After all, the cost of non-mobility is a billion-dollar category. That is also why it is important that we seek these means. One important way that can also be done at both local and wider levels is to have good planning and to make it possible; in cities in particular, to create a community that makes it possible to move. At the same time, traditional sports structures must be maintained, i.e. those that maintain social activities, top-level sports, entertainment sports, all the broad areas in which people can move.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u79	Madam President! Exercise as a way of life is a good goal for all of us. I myself am involved in sports clubs and in a couple of sports clubs in the administration to get the money that young people need to maintain a hobby, and I have to say that sometimes it's a tough job to take care of that side. It is good to pay attention to the movement of young people that from there the way of life starts to grow, that we move enough and that we engage in such healthy mobility, which leads to health. An hour of exercise at school: well, that's a good thing, but it's not enough. I think there should be more controlled exercise. In my opinion, there is now a social activity in that gap. The clubs bring their own species there, they hold clubs during school, and this side should also be taken forward, create these opportunities and support such social activities, which improves children's school exercise through club activities. In normal social activities, the problem is always the cost of activity. The instruments pay, the licences pay, and there will also be some additional fees for the follow-up activities, i.e. they are very expensive functions. On the junior football club side, we also got companies involved in this business. They have provided such a small fund that we have been able to take advantage of: because the Finn is naturally proud, he does not beg, the Finns are not prepared to go out and seek income support to maintain social activities, but we have been able through the club to support the activities in such a way that all they have to do is inform the management of the club that they have this kind of situation, that they have to give up when there is no money, so we have done it there. But that too is not enough; much more needs to be done. Then this experiment: Equipment costs money. It is a fact that they pay, they are expensive to buy and put. I myself took the Council initiative, which was carried out by the City of Varkaus and where a tool rental company was set up in Varkaus in connection with the library. There can be tools to rent free of charge on this kind of trial and action principle, in order to try out whether your own sport can be found inside the sport. Then, to dismantle the standards of sports organizations, this has now run on the rocks, I must say. When the tax authority has taken the approach, the practice of this tax register business that all small amounts should be reported as expenses or otherwise to the directors or others, it has become such a measure. Pensioners’ organisations in particular are distressed that once they have held sports clubs for the elderly, such as 1–2 euros for one-time payments must be filed in the tax register and do a very large paperwork and get everything in order, so these pains me. This is the kind of system we should get rid of on the voluntary side. Finally, I think that exercise is a good and necessary thing. In my opinion, when we move, then the spirit passes and we live and live longer. Every time you blow outwards and pull inwards, you feel better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u80	Madam President! At the beginning of that debate, I asked the Minister about this role of the Olympic Committee, especially as a promoter of health and everyday exercise, which was also included in this report. I didn't get an answer. Mr Multala then replied as vice-chairman of the committee and pointed out that the Olympic Committee was wide-ranging and included not only sports federations but also sports and sports regional organisations. Of course I know that, I myself have worked in one of the regional organisations in the past. But I realized that, apparently, even now, this report has not fully clarified these different roles. The President of the Olympic Committee, Mr Ritakallio, himself has pointed out in the summer that: Nor should the Olympic Committee itself do everything in its own right, but, in particular, in promoting everyday and health sports, we must consider which other actors are involved. We have strong players like LAKES, we have the Age Institute, the FAQ Institute, The whole age programme, the Mobility School programme, is in place. And I personally see the need for a wide range of factors to promote this everyday and health exercise, and I am sure it would be worth considering in greater detail where this coordination would be and who would take responsibility for it. I am not sure whether the Olympic Committee is the best place, because this task is so extensive, and even though clubs have their own important role to play, it is not, in most cases, the essence of sports clubs and federations, nor is it the greatest passion. There, however, in most cases, the goal sport is the first thing and is to create those fine, functional sports trails right from there to the top, all the way to racing. But how we can get every Finn to move, how we can increase everyday exercise, and how we can increase health exercise, we need a wider range. And as far as coordination is concerned, we should also consider how we can get a functioning system so that we can get as many Finns as possible on the move.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u81	Madam President! I wish Representative Talvitie good luck when you take your child, or hope when we take our children on a sledgehammer, that no one gets hurt like in today's news, where the sled has a knife up. I hope we don't have to worry. But that's it. I would like to raise a couple of points which Mr Semi raised, bureaucracy and so on. We are talking about these voluntary volunteers, and if they are paid travel allowances — we have somehow brought about such legislation — the unemployed will have to pay tax on these expenses. In my opinion, it is out of the potential resource that we have different tax practices. If any of those direct costs are reimbursed to a volunteer who makes activities possible in shift work, it is tax-free. And maybe this is our traditional thing: When everyone here has brought out a little of their own contributions, I must say that it was wonderful to work as a football coach in a sandbox. It didn’t need much from me except to be present and to activate the beginnings of those four - year - old little ballers, five - year - old, and thus perhaps to tie them to the hobby when they were more ready to go into the club’s junior activity when the spark was lit. In other words, what has been discussed here about early childhood education and afternoon club activities — as the President presented this report — is important. We must have the opportunity to lay the foundations for top-level sport through hobby activities and then organise sports that have no such ambition, other than that it is the basis for good public health. And it is also this exercise of seniority, where the municipalities are now reasonably active at the moment, that may become such a star of our municipal sport, that we take care of our elderly population and also enable those who are, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out, tied up in their homes and without help do not move. Yes, we must ensure that mobility is possible for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u82	President! When this report debate is right here at the end of the parliamentary term, it can be said that this debate also leaves a good taste in the mouth. In the rest of this time, when there has been a very upsetting and perhaps even human debate, which has not always been a credit to our Parliament, it has been a pleasant debate that, in a very constructive spirit and with very similar ideas, we have discussed without blame or search for the perpetrators. This gives a good impression, however, of Parliament's maturity to have a proper debate, even though now, if ever, because of the closeness of the elections, it would be tempting to launch it and this. Indeed, it has rightly been said in many speeches how important physical exercise is for each of us and also how different a movement of volunteers related to the sports culture is, in fact, not always sufficiently remembered and rewarded. Like representatives of Myllykoski and Semi has pointed out, and there are also such bureaucratic problems in paying the necessary compensation and so on. Yes, the activities of such different responsibilities are so extensive among children and young people, in the exercise of the elderly and others, and it is not appropriate to forget, for example, those who, for example, are there in Kuopio. The KuPS games are for sausages or coffee. This is all a really great thing. But our sports infrastructure is in many ways at the crossroads at the moment. We have, for example, swimming pools and many other sports facilities at the end of the road, and it can even be said that there is a repair investment bomb ahead of us, so many swimming pools and so many others will have to be renewed in the next few years. I wonder how the municipalities can find money for all of this, because, as the Minister said, there is, however, a limited amount of state money, and there is not enough for everyone. But the sum summarum, I'm sure today's conversation will be fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u83	Madam President! The representative Kivelä paid credit to the sports infrastructure and the responsibility for it often lies with the municipalities. I too have a lot of experience of this before I reach Parliament. I was the deputy mayor of the culture and sports services in Tampere, and we went through a lot of questions about how to keep things in order. Representative Myllykoski also raised the issue of an acute case of corruption in such a place of everyday exercise, and this underlines very well the need to take care of these issues and the need for municipalities to have sufficient funding to maintain the sports infrastructure. For example, Tampere made a strategic choice to invest in new sports facilities, despite the difficult economic situation in the city. This was due to the desire to create a community and a city in which people can also promote their own health through physical activity and prevent problems through it, and, for example, to increase communityism, and many more. This brings us to the fact that it is very important to make everyday exercise possible. Societies are one of the key areas and must have a framework for different species throughout the year, but at the same time we must create a community that enables people to move on their own. In social activity, I would draw attention to what a few others have said here, that is to say, it should also be ensured that when the threshold comes, after which the exercise begins to become so time-intensive, that many people stop, even if during puberty start to do something else, and in this situation find new ways to find the joy of moving, so that it does not end when you have to choose whether to continue with it as if at full power or fall out altogether. There should be some sort of intermediate stage where you can take a lighter course and find new routes. Fortunately, some of these have been done through volunteers, and this work must continue to be supported in Finland. It would also be useful to consider the funding of physical activity in municipalities from the point of view of funding not only social activities but also the funding of the framework. I believe that would be of great importance. Last but not least, although this project, which provides more exercise in schools, has been very important and should be continued, A mobile school, and we should also take care that exercise lessons are genuinely such that they still do not drop anyone off the sled. Much has changed since I suffered during sports lessons in the 1980s, fortunately, but I would say that there is still much to do to get every child and young person a path of individual mobility.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u84	Mr President! I'll be brief, but just in case, I'm here in the podium. In my own main point, I did not touch on three points. They relate to the unanimous positions of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. It is here that ‘the government assesses the need to regulate a separate law on top-of-the-line sport to support the I brought,and we share as social democrats, a critical aspect of the committee’s deliberations,but as long as it has been formulated in a friendly However, I personally see that top-level sport needs a variety of support measures. It is not a self-serving island: relations with species associations, clubs, training and so on are central. But perhaps it is a good thing that this is being evaluated. The second statement to which I would like such a marginal statement concerns the clarification and clarification of VAT practices in the field of sports services. After all, the two VAT rates, the reduced rate of 10% and the standard rate of 24% are now in use there, and it was unquestionably stated in the expert consultation that this is a kind of jungle where, after all, from a very vague practical point of view, the guidance of the Tax Administration is guided, and the guidance is not always unambiguous. For example, when I understand something about dance, the amount of VAT is 24% in dance teaching, but salsa’s teaching in group class, belly dance and virtually controlled exercise class is 10% in VAT, and one can only imagine these varied practices and situations. So we're gonna have to clear this up. Finally, not least, perhaps most important from a point of view, the statement relates to ‘measures to ensure thatweaknessOy is active in the illegal activities of foreign gaming companiesinManner-Finland, and by reducing the current more effective risks of gambling, and by ensuring legislation and other waysVehicleOy is able to operate in a stable environment where gambling can be more effectively This is an important, very important statement from the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and I believe that Parliament agrees with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u85	Mr President! It is easy to agree with this report from the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, but while Mr Kivelä has pointed out that this debate is good for the rest of the season in the decision on a common and common line of cooperation, this is exactly what it is like to invite everyone to join us, to keep everyone involved, to exercise together. You can see it in politics, too, that it connects, not just that, if you look at society from the point of view of voluntary work and community, all the elements come here. The role of society is very important, but then the same must be understood in volunteer work and everything else, whether it is mobility in the team or individual sports or other, even in voluntary work the community keeps it together. You can see that in this policy, too, that the sense of community and the social aspect are affected. Mrs Parviainen also spoke well on these infra-related issues. In Oulu, we have specifically tried to focus on the fact that these nearby sports facilities are similar to those that can be achieved at all levels. And yes, we still have the potential of schools and playgrounds and their potential in such a way that clubs too would organize more outdoors and schoolyards, not just in school halls, which may have been quite useful in recent years. And one aspect is that there would be no more schools, but there would be multi-purpose homes that would be open from seven in the morning until nine in the evening all the time. But thank you, Mr Gustafsson and Mrs Myllykoski and many others have had good speeches. — — — — Let's keep everybody moving.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u86	Madam President! In this regard, Mr Olli-Son, as a Member of Parliament, made a good point about the one thing that was not mentioned in my speech, and that is these sports facilities, especially buildings. Last season, the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs considered the possibility that it would be contrary to competition law if there was already a private entrepreneur with physical activity services and the public sector wanted to make it possible to do the same. I would hope that at this point we will see to it that if the public sector — municipalities, provinces — wants to build sports facilities for all, which will enable even the low-income people to exercise, then there must be no conflict of this kind so that the public side cannot take care of public health by building sports services without obstacles. Mr Gustafsson must be commended for raising this tax debate, which has already been raised here before. As such a former pony boy — I have never been a horseman — taxation of training and exercise in that sector is also different. If you are the owner of a riding stable and give it riding lessons, then if you give it on the so-called entrepreneur’s own horse, then VAT is 24%, but if the amateur comes on his own horse, then VAT is lower. So, all in all, we have to take into account the fact that we are on the same track in every form of physical activity. I would like to see a lower rate of VAT in the area of sports entrepreneurship, because it is certainly not harmful. I believe that the market would still keep prices in the form of price competition, so that the cheaper VAT does not go directly under its entrepreneur's line but will enable the wider provision of sports services. I have to say, when that representative, Semi, is such a modest man to brag about himself, I'll take care of this side now. So Matti, a former active athlete, has found the joy of exercise in this house as well, so that he has taken care of this training side in fitness boxing. So for those who have enjoyed that service, I thank Matt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u87	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Now, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, it is decided on the basis of the report by the Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, Mr Tuomo Puumala, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u88	Mr President! The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers the information policy report to be a very necessary opening-up. Its subjects, information policy and artificial intelligence, are topical and important. Digitalisation and the use of knowledge are factors that shape society, and they can be compared to globalisation, age structure change or climate change, for example. Some of the concrete comments made in the report relate to policy actions aimed at ensuring that citizens continue to have strong confidence in both the authorities and other actors in a society that will increasingly depend on knowledge and management in the future. Information policy cuts across the whole of society and the related policy measures cannot be separated from the rest of the policy. Its consistent inclusion in the various administrative sectors of society requires that the theme be considered not only in general but also in sectoral terms. However, the committee notes that the report is at this stage a start to the debate, and the issues raised in it still need to be put into practice. The committee believes that the updating of information policy, particularly in the light of the rapid development of AI, must be seen as a continuous process. This process requires seamless cooperation between expert organisations, education and training organisations, business, state and other public actors. President! The Committee on Education and Training has paid particular attention to a number of factors, first of all to an ethically sustainable information policy. The report rightly highlighted respect for human rights and freedoms. Finland must promote the construction of an ethically sustainable and technically high-quality artificial intelligence and data ecosystem. Finland is in a position to be and remain a pioneer in the ethical use of data. The key aspect of the report is Finland's standout in the international AI competition with an ethical and human approach. Ensuring competence is another theme. The knowledge and education base of the entire population and the literacy of knowledge must be invested in. It is a question of citizenship and its importance is growing. The committee stresses that the comprehensive use of artificial intelligence requires the continuous development of Finnish expertise through cooperation between companies, research institutes and education providers and public organisations. Training needed to strengthen artificial intelligence skills must meet current and future needs at all levels of education. The committee calls for the Government to take measures to promote citizens' understanding of digitalisation and artificial intelligence and to strengthen the skills required to develop the sector and improve international competitiveness at different levels of education and science. Regarding information policy management, we say, among other things: Information policy concerns both the public and private sectors and must be able to cooperate closely with each other. Adequately resourced and competent co-ordination of information policy should be developed through transparent monitoring of objectives. The scope of coordination must be ensured through a comprehensive review of legislation and other guidance. For example, we need to look at how national AI programmes are aligned with existing EU digital programmes and avoid duplication. The committee believes that a comprehensive political approach to knowledge and knowledge can be developed into Finland's strengths. Finland's full benefit from information policy requires close cooperation between the private and public sectors. For this reason, information policy must be managed across administrative boundaries. A broad dialogue between the different sectors and the body preparing the general information policy is important. The committee agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Communications, which requires that the responsibilities for the development of information policy be defined in the Government in such a way that the limits of competence between ministries do not prejudice the development work and its management. On the basis of these observations, the Committee on Education and Rural Development makes a statement consisting of four draft measures: Parliament requires the Government to: 1) to continue, in cooperation with various administrative branches and expert organisations, to address the ethical aspect of information policy and AI in order to concreteise the principles set out in the report; 2) to take the necessary measures to promote citizens' understanding of digitalisation and artificial intelligence and to strengthen the skills required to develop the sector and improve international competitiveness at different levels of education and science; (3) urgently explore the tax treatment of open block chains and cryptocurrency and take the necessary measures to clarify and correct the fiscal situation; 4) take measures to define the division of responsibilities for information policy development activities within the Government in such a way that the boundaries of competence between ministries do not prejudice the development work and its management, which should be significantly strengthened. Mr President! This committee's report is also unanimous and is a very important issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u89	In the meantime, I give Mr Vehviläinen the floor for five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u90	Mr President! In time, J. V. Mr Snellman said that information should be used for the benefit of the country, and perhaps I myself would turn this into information for the sake of well-being, security and competitiveness. All in all, we are on the same snellman trail. Information policy is therefore commonly agreed principles and policies on the production, acquisition, movement, opening, sharing, use, maintenance and storage of data and procedures. The Parliament has now had a first report on information policy and artificial intelligence. I would like to thank the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Committee on Transport and Communications for their excellent work. As the Committee on Culture and Education states in its report, information policy cuts across society as a whole and the related policy measures cannot be separated from other policies. In its report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Citizens' Rights has stressed the ethical aspect of information policy and agrees with the report that respect for human rights and freedoms is central to information policy and that the aim must be to improve and exploit information for the benefit of the community. The committee therefore requires that the Government, in cooperation with various expert organisations, continue to work on the ethical aspect in order to concreteise the principles set out in the report. Knowledge, inclusion and trust are the keys to artificial intelligence and the utilisation of knowledge. The committee also points out that people with knowledge of information policy and artificial intelligence are a key resource for the nation. The report therefore stresses the need to invest in the knowledge and education base and the literacy of the entire population. The committee calls for the Government to take measures to promote citizens' understanding of digitalisation and artificial intelligence and to strengthen the skills required to develop the sector and improve international competitiveness at different levels of education and science. The committee also points out that Finland's full benefit from information policy requires much closer cooperation between the private and public sectors. For this reason, information policy must be managed in a way that goes beyond the administrative sectors, as the committee points out. The report requires that the responsibilities for the development of information policy be defined in the Government in such a way that the limits of competence between ministries do not prejudice the development work and its management. I fully share this view. Cross-administrativeity is important in all areas, but particularly important in terms of policies, digitalisation, artificial intelligence, information policy. The preparation of the report was already aimed at as open and broad a cooperation as possible. The report was prepared by a wide network of experts of around 200 people from different areas of society. The opinions were also dealt with in cooperation with eight ministries and, if I remember them correctly, they were not merely made at the table as a matter of course, but were used for a few days to go through this extensive dossier in the workshop. The report is the beginning of a new policy area, information policy. I am convinced that this topic will be strongly on the agenda during the coming parliamentary term, regardless of the government base. After the parliamentary examination of the report, the work on information policy is to be continued by making a road map of concrete measures to implement the information policy. In line with the report and Parliament's positions, the Ministry of Finance is now launching the preparation of follow-up measures and is considering various options for extensive cooperation and national management of the implementation of information policy. Mr President! To conclude, I would like to say that, for the last time, I am in these positions here on the podium, that when I have been allowed to conduct various policy-related reforms during this parliamentary term, such as digitalisation or even in relation to this information policy, I am particularly convinced that these are not party political issues in any form, but that this Parliament and every parliamentary party, each Member of Parliament, must make a courageous contribution to promoting those common policies for policy reform. It is good for our nation and for our society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u91	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Vehviläinen, for being here. I believe that you have taken an enthusiastic speech which has shown that this issue is important and important to you as a minister and a representative of Parliament as well. It occurred to me when you started talking about Snellman and information for the good of the country and then, in this frame of reference, you defined it as well-being, security and competitiveness, that I almost prefer that definition of Snellman. But then I thought of my own definition from a few decades ago, when I was in a fighting student movement. At the time, our demars thought was that science to serve the people — science to serve the people. In my opinion, this reference also fits well in the presentation and views of our committee on this report on information policy and artificial intelligence. The concept of ‘information policy’ is confused. I found it interesting when a committee of experts said that there would be new policy areas and sectors at different times, and he used the example of how environmental policy became a policy area in the 1980s, as it were. Of course, environmental issues have been ignored since the protection of water in Finland, in the land of tens of thousands of lakes, but the fact that it comes to such a comprehensive, also little scientific framework is significant. Well, now the same phenomenon, it is happening with this information policy, and it is an excellent thing that the government has taken up this now with its own report, which has been prepared on a wide-ranging basis. Mr President! We also had a very good time in committee, when we had a person as an expert, we can probably say the name right now, Thomas Lehtinen, who had made a report on the mandate of the City of Espoo and Tieto Oyj, which concreteises what artificial intelligence can be and provide in practice. From 2002 to 2016, they collected customer data from about 520,000 people, over 37 million customer contacts. Well, these individual customers that were involved could not be identified at any point, these personal data were encrypted from the beginning. I am not going to go through this study and research further, but it came to the point when it dealt with the referrals to the Child Welfare Declaration that some 280 factors were found through the study, i.e. artificial intelligence, which anticipated the customer relationship of child protection. I am not going any deeper on this issue, but when people think about what information technology is, what it can be used for and what opportunities it opens up, for example, this expert report, which I very roughly sidelined, gives a person who is not now an expert on these issues an opportunity to understand these possibilities and their meanings. Mr President! Finally, I would just like to refer to this statement by the committee, which states how the issues and issues of information policy and artificial intelligence should also be opened, evaluated and dealt with at different levels of education and science. And when, above all, I consider the importance of general education to be important today
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u92	Mr President, värderade talman! In yesterday's vote, we experienced in this Chamber how the betrayal of technology allowed us to suspend the Christmas Eve celebration of democracy, namely the vote. I'm glad the interruption was over quickly, but the case was very graphic. Man, mankind, is increasingly dependent on technology. When it fails, many plans may be renewed, at least for a moment, like yesterday. The ideal situation is, of course, that, despite this addiction, man still controls technology and not, on the contrary, that the renegade does not become the host, that he does not start to wave the dog. This applies especially today to man’s attitude to artificial intelligence. How far do we want to take it? Is the sky even a roof anymore?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u93	Mr President! First of all, thank the Committee on Culture and Education for a good report. After all, the Committee on the Future did not take a position on this report, but on other occasions we have dealt with several aspects of this theme. Thank you, Mr Wallin, Chairman of the Committee on the Future. I will raise similar themes in my own speech. In particular, I am delighted that the Committee on Education and Rural Development has taken a strong position on ethical issues such as artificial intelligence. On the positive side, the report already states that the aim must be to process and exploit information for the common good. Robots and artificial intelligence systems must be built to promote well-being, respect the autonomy of the individual, respect the fundamental rights of citizens and the requirements of justice and avoid suffering. In addition to harnessing the good goals of the use of artificial intelligence, strong attention must also be paid to its risks. As stated in the report, the development of AI has often been dominated by technical and commercial interests, and ethical problems have only arisen once problems have arisen. The risks of artificial intelligence’s ethical issues and misuse are estimated to be some of mankind’s major issues and to be comparable in scale to climate change, for example. The report takes into account the fundamental rights of citizens as artificial intelligence develops and the right of people to their own data. However, it should be noted that the possibility to influence the use of own data may be non-existent, especially in situations where consent to the use of data collected by public authorities or previously given to the disclosure of data is subsequently withdrawn. In my opinion, this problem has not been sufficiently addressed. The Education Committee notes that Finland should promote the construction of ethically sustainable and technically high-quality artificial intelligence and data ecosystem. Finland is in a position to be and remain a pioneer in the ethical use of data. The central aspect of the report is also Finland's standout in the international AI competition through ethical and human approaches. On this same subject, the Committee on the Future has last said in its report on the future, which was discussed here last week. The Statement of the Committee on the Future states that the ethical assessment of technology needs to be developed, for example through a network or centre gathering different actors. Technology ethics and the social assessment of technology must be made the leading know-how of Finnish society. Mr President! The development of technologies also means a change in society. Alongside technology, changing social and social structures and regulations, knowledge and occupations in business areas, lifestyles and user cultures. Even though technology is progressing, whether we want it or not, regulation can still influence the pace, direction and consequences of change. At national level, we need to decide which issues we want to be at the global level first and what it requires of us. Technological development and development is accompanied by a strong need for a wide-ranging ethical debate in society on the benefits and disadvantages of technology. An example of this is the invisible value choices made in the design of artificial intelligence solutions. In an online environment regulated by algorithms, the user does not know how the algorithm controls what and what data and recommendations are displayed to him. The use of information requires the transformation of material into larger entities and the ranking of these entities on a principle that the user may not be aware of. In the future, this adaptation will be carried out by learning algorithms as a fast and automatic process, which will also increase the risk of unintentionally discriminatory practices. If a person does not know how and why a machine does something, the machine may use a person rather than a human machine. If this is not to happen, and if artificial intelligence is to remain in the role of support intelligence, why it was originally thought of, it must be ensured that the division of labour between man and machine and the boundaries of automated decision-making are constantly monitored. The management and control of the digital world require a vision and a vision of what needs to be achieved in the common good, as well as an assessment and coordination of the associated ethical aspects and data organisation principles. This should be done through multi-functional cooperation between engineers, social scientists and humanists, among others. The decision-makers must be aware of the continuing need for ethical judgement in reconciling and regulating the boundaries between citizens' privacy, the freedom of business and the efficiency of the public sector. A warning example is an automatic scoring system based on data collected from citizens in China during the pilot phase, which affects, for example, the social benefits and insurance conditions of citizens. I hope we're not going this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u94	Mr President! It is great that Parliament will still be able to deal with this excellent report on information policy and artificial intelligence. This paper is the passion of the Prime Minister and also of the Prime Minister's Office and of the Ministry of Finance for the theme, and that is commendable. The information economy is the most important success factor for Finland in the digital world economy in the 2020s. The report itself shows that the fashionable debate on artificial intelligence has now returned, as it rightly is, to the whole framework of information policy and the information economy. Learning systems are only one way to process data and gain added value from it. The report highlights the ethical aspect, which is also correct. The report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media also stresses the importance of respect for human rights and freedoms in the role of information policy and the need to develop and exploit information for the common good. In this respect, the European approach, perhaps even Nordic, differs from both the North American and the Chinese model, to which I shall compare a little next. The North American, all-commercial information economy uses uninhibited, even exploits people's own data and puts people under constant control. This new form of economy is discussed by Shoshana Zuboff’s book The Age of Surveyance Capitalism. In the Chinese model, the state has the exclusive right to privacy, i.e. to monitor, restrict and use the data left behind by a person. In this case, IT companies operating under Chinese government approval may also be suspected of collecting big data from abroad for the purpose of unscrupulous and unrestricted exploitation of state interests. Europeans are often anxious to see how far behind we are in the information economy and artificial intelligence business, but societies that respect individual freedoms and rights may take advantage of a unique resource, namely the trust that an ethical information economy can gain. Of course, the European Information Security Regulation (GDPR) is a step in a confidence-building direction, which not only respects democratic traditions, but can ultimately prove to be the most commercially viable. Here again, equality is a factor of economic production. The report takes good account of the fundamental rights and participation of citizens and the management of their own data. Needless to say, the possibilities of artificial intelligence are acclaimed as tools of a more fluent authority or patient administration, in situations where man is the object of the procedure, the potential risk and the expense item. Too rarely are opportunities sought to meet citizens' own wishes, needs and goals. In this respect, a positive exception is the Aurora project prepared by the Ministry of Finance, where artificial intelligence is intended to serve people in the self-sustaining but necessary needs of the various phases of their individual life cycle. Personal data management plays a key role in creating a public trust relationship and also in expanding the opportunities offered by the information economy. We therefore urgently need an operator who could manage the individual's own data and help us make use of it. This project, of global importance, could find a home in Vake, the newly established State Development Company. Mr President! When I myself have considered the issues of information policy, data management and the information economy, I have become increasingly convinced that this important entity deserves its own lane in the state administration. Tens of if not hundreds of laws need to be reformed in terms of data protection or the exploitation of data, on the one hand, and on the other hand, a great deal needs to be done, both secure and enabling new regulation. Issues such as block chains and cryptocurrency have been raised in the parliamentary process, where the entry angles of public power may even be contradictory. Yesterday, a law on the secondary use of health data was also adopted, the preparation of which revealed significant shortcomings in the parliamentary procedure. This process also highlights that current legislative and decision-making channels are not the best for information policy, data management and the information economy. So the question is: why has the Committee on Culture and Education been the Committee on the Future and not the Committee on the Future, which has dealt with the future of the information economy and artificial intelligence a great deal in its work? [MerjaMäkisalo-Ropponen Intercommunal—StefanWallin intermediate call] The Committee on the Future has not even been a committee of opinions. Our old structures are not now yielding to a new reality. That is what the Committee on Transport and Tourism saw, which made a statement in its opinion on the division of responsibilities in the development of information policy. It wanted to ensure that the boundaries of interministerial competence do not hinder development and its management and that the main responsibility could lie with the Prime Minister's Office, which is constantly carrying out situational work, foresight and foresight and sharing these aspects with the Committee on the Future, which has just been mentioned. [Olli-Son Parviainen’s interlude — Stefan Wallin’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u95	Madam President! When we talk about artificial intelligence policy, we talk about one of the biggest issues of our time. If anything comes to mind about this decade and the next, then surely, in addition to meeting the climate challenge, we need to find ways to harness digitalisation to promote human interests. This report, which we are discussing, is commendable, it is extensive, and it is clearly written with dedication. Thank you, Minister. For the wheat, good work in this area and good work in general in raising new issues into politics. I believe that for the first time in Finland this report draws attention to the fact that we need ethical regulation for our technology policy, specifically referring to artificial intelligence and technologies related to it. Ethical regulation is extremely important, because very often technology policy is done ahead of technology, using it, for example, directly for the use of the market or, as Mr Harakka has rightly described, also for totalitarian purposes. The human option is to take a broader look at the matter, to see technological development and artificial intelligence as part of the path we will hopefully take to improve the position of all people and to promote all the good in general. I would also link artificial intelligence policy to the broad promotion of civilization. This report also considers it necessary to point out or point out that we need to increase people's understanding and awareness of these issues. We also need a broad reflection on how we can harness this development to serve civilisation, not by serving various instruments, but by technology promoting civilisation. I would hope that in the future there will be a Minister of Science in Finland or an equivalent that will promote these issues across sectoral boundaries. Mr Vehviläinen has had some of these issues under his responsibility, and I would like to extend this further so that we can raise these questions to the value they need. In the Council of Europe, much attention has been paid to the need to prepare for the ethical regulation of artificial intelligence before it is too late for technology to go so far that we may no longer have control over it. These are real questions — there is no need to go to science fiction, although that is also interesting. The road map of information policy presented to Finland is extremely necessary. I hope that the next government will take on board its programme to promote a comprehensive information policy from these points of view, which the report also deals with, and that we will draw up a road map that does not just include legislation but looks beyond society as a whole. On the other hand, our challenge is to coordinate these issues with other legislation and the development of society in the pipeline. The legislation on the secondary use of social data, which we adopted yesterday — albeit after the vote — is a good example of us talking a lot about how we should manage data ethically, but at the same time we are taking small steps here and there, possibly gnawing on privacy, for example. That is why we should look at these things as a whole. If we only do data policy sector by sector, we will end up gnawing down the ethical basis of data policy. It is good that the report also raises the issue of the regulation of crypto currencies, Mr President. This is, of course, a question at European Union level and a broader one, but Finland can also play an active role in this under its Presidency. There's a lot of conversation going on around the world. For example, the Committee on the Future is constantly being approached by various cryptocurrency issues. I would also like us, when we talk about ethical regulation in this context, to raise the issue of biotechnology and bioethics alongside technology policy as part of the technology debate, and to consider, for example, the establishment of a broad negotiating board, so that we can certainly get enough of this through Parliament. With these speeches, I hope that during the next term of government, Finland will align itself as the world leader in information technology, digitalisation and artificial intelligence in terms of human rights and ethics.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u96	Mr President! It is great that at this stage we have just received a report on sports policy and now the Government's report on information policy and artificial intelligence. We can discuss common issues across party boundaries and between us, if we look to the future, are absolutely central: how Finland will succeed in the future, how we will be able to use and use information both in decision-making and in promoting Finnish exports, and how we will be able to use artificial intelligence in the resource efficiency of our society and, on the other hand, to create conditions for applications and services that can then be used throughout the world. I would raise three points: knowledge management, user orientation and ethics. To lead with this knowledge first. I assume that in the future it will be even more important for us to have timely and correct information and decision-making based on it, and also in a timely manner. On the other hand, as more and more information comes that can be applied and used, the more they want to share and disseminate false information. So this knowledge management also challenges our structure, the structures of our society, how we can use it in a timely manner when we have to make decisions. I myself am on the Administrative Committee and there has been much thought about matters relating to our national security, and nothing would be more dangerous than having the wrong information at the wrong time and in society we would also make a lot of decisions on that basis. On the other hand, this is already showing that we have a risk factor. Then there's the other thing, this user-orientation. However, once we have become accustomed to the fact that this society has been built and managed and people have been managed in a certain way, it is now increasingly important, through digitalisation and artificial intelligence, that we think about things from a user-oriented perspective, whether it is patient-oriented or entrepreneurial-oriented or operator-oriented, and also in the application of all digitalisation and information from a user-oriented perspective. This, in exactly the same way as that knowledge-based management, challenges the structures of our society. Our interfaces are pretty big. It is only in these committees that you can see how information goes, not to mention the ministries of our society and the social players in the municipal and urban sectors. And thirdly, ethics. At the moment, what we are doing about artificial intelligence and its exploitation in the world, if we look at the United States and Russia and China, is going from a very different point of view than this Western democracy, and that is why it is really important that we are able to introduce artificial intelligence in areas where the foundations of our welfare society, democracy, the rule of law, all the issues of the welfare society are involved. I am raising the issue here, for example, of how artificial intelligence can be used. I have already said that we already know — and that is to say, knowledge-based management — the risk factors of exclusion that young people between the ages of 15 and 16, for example, have. And when we know the risk factors, we could use the information in the sense that when we have done this detective youth work some ten years ago, that is, we are looking for young people who have no place to go, no place to study, no job, we already know which risk factors are met. In the future, through artificial intelligence, if we allow ourselves to do so socially, the artificial intelligence would do the detective's work and the people would do the youth's work, that is, we would be able to allocate our resources at the right time to the right place. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs therefore proposes, among other things, that Parliament requires the Government, in cooperation with various administrative sectors and expert organisations, to continue to address the ethical aspect of information policy and artificial intelligence in order to make the principles set out in the report concrete. I see that this is particularly important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u97	Mr President! There were a couple more things I wanted to come down here and talk to you about. Firstly, there has been talk of yesterday's decision on the other side. Indeed, here yesterday the secondary law was adopted, and it is a good example of how not to act when it comes to data protection or such ethical issues. After all, the law itself is necessary and doing the law was timely, but when it had to be amended so many times, it was corrected several times, so there can be no concern that there were now gaps in the law that would endanger the privacy of the individual in the future. In my opinion, such a risk should not have been taken, and it would have been wiser for the law to have been recast from the outset, so that it could have been possible to avoid those risks of data protection and other risks. Now we are just hoping that everything will go well, but in matters of such importance, things should not be left to wish, but should be properly secured. But I also wanted to speak about the fact that the prerequisite for Finland's pioneering in information policy and the application of artificial intelligence is a long-term investment in basic research in this field, and we must also invest more in this. And as also stated in the report, there is no way forward by buying the understanding of the underlying phenomena of technology from others, such as the United States and China, because there is a completely different way of thinking about information technology. This also does not allow for a thorough knowledge of technology and the context of its application if we buy that know-how elsewhere. Finland needs its own research in order to develop artificial intelligence methods ourselves and to build expertise in Finland and to apply artificial intelligence methods in a way that creates a competitive advantage. There is no competitive advantage in our country that we are doing what others are doing. Scientific and research knowledge, innovation, inventions and solutions are our national wealth, and that is what we need to increase and invest in. The report mentions the hegemony of China and the United States, and that is a fact, and direct competition with them is not a realistic option. In practice, artificial intelligence is currently being developed under the leadership of US companies, as most of the main tools are developed by them, but the competitive environment can be changed by emphasising open source and open data in development work, which is exactly what we want to do here in Finland. Open technology is well suited to the objective of ethical AI, and in these ways it is possible to build competitive solutions, even though Europe and Finland are still underdogs in terms of technology and market position at the moment, but we have a great opportunity to move forward in our own way. Finally, Mr President, I agree with Mrs Haraka that this report should have been dealt with in particular in the Committee on the Future, because there we have dealt with similar issues and this would have been very complementary to our other work. I am not at all critical of this report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, but I am quite sure that there would have been different points of view if it had been dealt with in the Committee on the Future, and I am a little sorry about that. Then I would also like to say that I agree with Mrs Haraka that our aim should be to make Finland the best information economy society in the world — this must be our aim, no more, no less, and that is what we must strive for — and the Minister for the Information Economy that she has mentioned would be one way forward towards this objective. In other words, we would have a person who would be particularly concerned with this matter, not just with his own actions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u98	Mr President! This speech should also begin with thanks to the Government for an important report for the future of Finland as a whole. Similarly, I would like to thank the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media for their excellent report. Of course, I agree with Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's thinking that the Committee on the Future would have been a good place for this too. Mr President! Digitalisation creates a framework for new work and entrepreneurship, but also for new citizenship and humanity. Digital solutions are part of our everyday life, and the dividing line between the digital world and the analogue world is no longer simple or even appropriate. At the same time, this change undermines the normal way of life, creates uncertainty and breaks the basic concepts of the current economic system, ranging from measuring economic growth to a fair allocation of taxation. In addition to uncertainty, the possibility of knowledge-based decision-making is constantly increasing as we are able to build a picture of the situation around various phenomena such as climate change and the real needs of people and businesses to support decision-making in an almost comprehensive way. On the other hand, sustainable harnessing of digitalisation requires understanding the potential of a new creation base, but also the challenges. We must be able to distinguish and adapt to the things that happen in spite of us. In addition, we must choose the things where we want to see change and be pioneers. Thus, the digital revolution is partly political, whether we like it or not. That is why this good report and the report by the Committee on Culture and Education are very much in favour of this situation. Mr President! What, then, should be the principles on which digital politics should be pursued in Finland? Here I would like to raise five points, namely the open market economy, respect for human self-determination, enabling regulation, a fair data economy and cooperation. For example, an open market economy and a fair data economy are needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by digitalisation are available to all and that the use of technology is not based, for example, on the customer base of a few technology companies. In addition, these principles are essential for our own digital competence and entrepreneurship. Similarly, digitalisation has raised new questions about how information collected about all of us is used or not used. On the other hand, the increased number of identity thefts, for example through digitalisation, forces us to create regulation that strengthens the autonomy of our citizens in digital services and online. Possible regulation and cooperation are, in turn, issues related in particular to the fact that our public services remain involved in a highly progressive digitalisation. Mr President! What, then, should be the biggest challenges and points of digital politics in the post-election government? I would like to raise three: The resources of scientific computation are essential for the use of large data volumes to maintain the international competitiveness of the Finnish research system, for Finland’s attractiveness, for scientific cooperation, for attracting top international researchers to Finnish universities and for competitiveness as a whole. These will not be achieved without adequate calculation capacities and investment in them and their construction. Second: The development of software competence has been slow and nationally deficient. Buying and using technology alone does not mean understanding it, but it must be actively created nationally. Third: The construction of high-speed optical fibre connections in Finland has progressed unnecessarily slowly. The problems of data mobility have a negative impact on the operation of data-based machines and services, and consumers will not be able to use new digital products and services without fast and comprehensive network connections. Also, without high-speed fixed grids, the next generation of wireless 5G or 6G networks will not be built. For Finland, digitalisation and artificial intelligence are a big opportunity. High skills, a stable political environment and, for example, an environment conducive to service business create the conditions for success stories that are urgently needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u99	Madam President! I must now thank colleagues for their very good contributions. The speeches made by the Chairmans of the Committee on the Future and by Mr Haraka, who was very impressed. As a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, I have to say that our reading was exactly what we received as a paper statement. However, it was a perplexing experience that when a report is being discussed in Parliament, at the same time TEO will be contacted to see if we could come forward with plans to take the artificial intelligence step — while we are here, as someone has already taken the matter forward. That is why I would have liked the Minister to have been still present, to ask how this is possible, or was it so that the report had already been prepared in such a cross-administrative way. I'm a little suspicious of that. It is precisely in this direction that I think it is very good that the protection of privacy and the opportunities for creating new business in this sector have now been taken into account in this report and that it is hopefully being carried forward in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u100	Madam President! I will come back to strengthening the role of the Committee on the Future. If you ask about what Finland is known for, if you know Finland, you often refer to education and technology, you refer to our high level of competence and our ability to renew. The Committee on the Future is highly valued in international debates, and many of us in the Committee on the Future have also spent a great deal of time this season trying to help our partner countries to develop similar practices in their own countries. In Finland, however, the role of the Committee on the Future is mainly to focus on the foresight report and to draw up its own reports, which are worthy in themselves, but which are largely discussed outside this Chamber. It would therefore be reasonable for us to think about Parliament for the future, if and when we get to Finland in the future, whether he is called Digitalization, Information Policy, or any name that fits this topic, Minister. In this context, it would also make sense to increase the role of the Committee on the Future so that the Committee on the Future would not only deal with the Prime Minister's Office in relation to the report on the future but also work more widely. It is also a good thing that other committees use the Committee on the Future in their decision-making, but I think that the role of the Committee on the Future should be strengthened here too. The Committee on Education is one of the most important committees in Parliament — or they are all important, but it would certainly have been more useful in this context if the Committee on the Future had been involved in the preparation of this commendable report. I believe that a different view of the various committees and also a different knowledge base based on the personal knowledge of the representatives in the various committees would complement each other very well. That is why I would like us, together with these words, to catch up on strengthening the role of the Committee on the Future within this House as well. Outside this house, the committee's position is unquestionably strong.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u103	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 39/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u104	Mr President! Both in this area and in the next two other matters, we are still here for information, as in the previous one, and in all these matters there is a unanimous report from the Administrative Committee. This item 5 concerns the law on the processing of personal data in the police service and some related legislation. Mr President! The aim of this package of legislation is to bring the legislation on the processing of personal data necessary for the performance of police tasks into line with the requirements of European Union data protection legislation. All of this also takes into account changes in the police environment and the data processing needs resulting from them, in particular concerning the processing of personal data in order to prevent criminal offences. The aim has also been to clarify and simplify the complex structure of the law. This proposed package of legislation is an important reform in terms of the capacity of the police and the protection of personal data. The Administrative Committee has carried out thorough work on this and has made some clarifications, including the requirement that the government monitor and evaluate the implementation of the new police legislation on personal data, paying attention, among other things, to the functioning of new, end-use-based regulation, the implementation of personal data protection, the impact on the operating conditions of the police and other authorities and the monitoring of the processing of personal data. And on these matters, the Administrative Committee has stated that it is appropriate for the government to provide a detailed report to the future Administrative Committee by the end of 21. Perhaps the most significant change to the proposal that we have been working on in the Committee on Administration has been linked to the criterion of non-discrimination, which, in my opinion, has been achieved in a good way now that has been written out in this report. Mr President! Issues related to data management, and also those related to personal data, will continue to be on the agenda in the future. They are of enormous importance when considering crime prevention, for example, and, on the other hand, careful care must be taken to ensure that the protection of personal data remains high for each of us, so that it does not fall into the wrong hands. Mr President! In fact, I could use this same speech on the following issues on the list when we talk about the use of personal data both on that side of the Border Guard and then on the Customs side. Overall, the changes are very much to be welcomed. And I would also like to stress that the Administrative Committee has done a thorough, good job in these areas too. What is more, all these reports are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u105	Mr President! Official authority cannot be granted in haste. You must always be very considerate about them. In this context, the Administrative Committee has held a wide-ranging debate and has also tried to follow this line of reasoning as best it can. As Mr Räsänen said, it is important that we now also assess implementation in the future and see how these changes to police records affect them. It is also good that we will be able to get a report on this in the next period. It would also be important to take into account, again, the same thing that I repeated in my previous speeches in previous paragraphs, that we do not categorically regulate different rights and, for example, we do not treat different registers as individual cases, but rather look at the whole picture of how data is collected, where it is used and what kind of firewalls we are building. In the context of intelligence legislation, we had a very wide-ranging debate on this issue and have also found different models for Finland to make firewalls for handling sensitive personal information, for example. The principle of non-discrimination is also a very important constitutional issue. The government, which has now not only left that box but also disbanded along the way, had other suggestions on how to use these personal registers and how to use them. Some have been worthy of support, some have been somewhat over-exploited, and, for example, the idea of extending the use of biometric data as such to the fight against crime sounds very risky from the point of view of the processing of sensitive data by citizens. However, these questions will now remain for the next period. Let's see how this conversation goes on. But at this point, the Committee on Administrative Affairs has now brought these proposals to the Chamber that we are discussing today, and they are indeed unanimous. And it is good to note that we have dealt with a number of different areas of government in the field of internal security at the same time, working together to do precisely the overall consideration that is called for here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u106	Mr President! In the previous speech, it was forgotten to say that, in this spring, and in the past, there has been a great deal of emphasis in the public debate, of course, on the legislation on intelligence, but from the point of view of information management and from the point of view of the way in which information is collected from citizens and then used in the activities of the authorities, I would argue that this package on personal data is certainly an equally large piece of cake in this matter. And it would also pay attention to the question of intelligence law, because in exactly the same way this package of legislation involves the need for increased supervision, including parliamentary scrutiny, in the way in which these new rights will then be exercised in the activities of the authorities. As Mrs Parviainen said earlier, we should come back to this at the latest when the follow-up report comes to Parliament next season. Mr President! It is clear that in all situations it is up to decision-makers to ensure that we security authorities have the resources to be able to do their day-to-day work, to keep Finland safe. But in exactly the same way it is clear that we need to look at and develop legislation in such a way that data protection issues are well taken into account and that we will then be able to monitor the way and use the information collected from citizens. However, when there are always two sides to the coin, I would argue at this stage that the security elements and the conditions for action by the police and other authorities, as well as the data protection aspect, have been able to move forward hand in hand, and that is something that should really come back to us in the wake of monitoring.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u107	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 38/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u108	Mr President! I would have liked to have heard a member of the Administrative Committee tell me about this reading in so far as I know that the National Archives was quite concerned about this preparation. However, they have a written statement to which that committee report refers, but they have not been consulted. When the National Archives play a very central role in Finland as regards the processing of the Archives Institute and the archiving of information, this remains a little puzzled. I have since heard that the National Archives are still concerned about this proposal. Is there anyone here who can explain this? [Second Vice-President TuulaHaatainen : No future report. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u111	Madam President! I cannot, of course, speak on behalf of the Administrative Committee, but as an individual member, but now that I recall this debate that we had, I remember and remember that we have had a debate on the problem which has been linked to the fact that this law has brought together a great many different actors, and there have been challenges, particularly in the cultural sphere. I cannot say at this point why we have not been asked to be heard orally in committee, but that we have heard very widely about a number of laws and that the timetable of the Administrative Committee for the rest of the period was so tight that even Parliament's plenary sessions had to be postponed in order to allow the Administrative Committee to deal with its matters. I do not know whether this has anything to do with it, but it would be important to ensure that all parties are adequately consulted. If that has not happened now, then it will be a sad thing and it will be good to consider and remember in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u112	Mr President! In this regard, Mrs Tuomioja raised the right question, and here with Mrs Parviainen we tried to remember all the developments in this debate. It is therefore a rather large package and, as the text of the opinion and the text of this report is clear, this is not the easiest way out of the legislative process either. This also presents a few challenges, because, first of all, this lacks this reform of archive legislation, which will then be carried out in the second phase of the reform. Secondly, there has been a great deal of disagreement about the cost of the reform for different actors, such as municipalities, at the stage of the process as to the way in which they are formed. In this regard, the Administrative Committee stated that, on the basis of the report they have received, the new, refined obligations introduced by the law can be implemented through the reallocation of resources. Now is the time to show whether this can be done or whether this will require additional resources in this area. But, unfortunately, when the chairman of the committee is no longer in the process of opening up this matter, this is probably one of the things we will then see what will happen here, and then we will come back to it if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-177.u113	Mr President! I am not now criticising the Administrative Committee, because here too, at least according to the information I have received, has been in the preparation of the matter in the government, which is not exceptional to the late government, in the way that the National Archives have not been consulted at all and that they have had to take a position very quickly when the preparation under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance has already been completed. This is not good administrative practice and may lead to a situation in which Parliament will have to come back in the next period with possible corrections.
