ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 2 hours are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Presentation: Minister Orpo, please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u2	Madam President! I present the first amending budget for 2019 to the House. We have prepared an amending budget in a very strong cyclical situation, particularly in the context of strong employment developments. The employment rate has reached more than 72% and the positive momentum in the labour market is expected to continue to grow. According to the January Labour Force Survey published today, the trend of the employment rate was as high as 72.6 and the number of employed persons was 35,000 higher than one year ago
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u7	Thank you. — The response is now being made. All of you who want to make a reply, press the V button and stand up for it then you can reserve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u8	Mr President! This is the last amending budget of the government. I am pleased and I would like to express my thanks for the Government's consideration of the joint will of the parliamentary groups to increase the resources for online police activities at this stage, exceptionally, at this late stage. There has been much talk of services for the elderly. Half a supervisor per province more. There is a need for more drastic measures, and I would like to see the government and the assembly finally ready to review their position on the nurseship. Mr President! This amending budget also includes a major bomb. The biggest bomb is that the government goes to the pockets of low- and middle-income tenants and makes the last job of robbing over 70 million people from the State Housing Fund — quite the opposite of what the entire parliament has decided together and emphasised that the sovereign status of the State Housing Fund must be safeguarded. It's the last thing the government does, it's at the end of the road, it's going and it's going to be a robbery. It's the money that tenants on low and medium incomes have paid for it. Minister Orphan, what is this all about? Why are you doing this kind of robbery at the last minute?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u9	Mr President! I agree with the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, that the structural deficit of the state is and will remain and, at the same time, we have already moved from a cyclical peak to perhaps a time when we can expect an increase in the economy of perhaps 1.5% in the years to come. You spoke here of decisive action and how to ensure growth and employment in the future. I would like to ask you if you would like to open up a little of these decisive measures to increase employment, because we all know that when we talk about the employment rate of 75% and the savings of EUR 3 billion in social protection, these are beliefs, and it is good to hope that they will happen, because if this does not happen, the need for immediate adjustment of EUR 2 billion is quite acute. I mainly want to know how the Minister of Finance sees that action should be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u10	Madam President! There is another bomb involved in this ARA robbery, and that is that, Minister Orpo, you set up a working group to consider the financing models for transport infrastructure projects. It submitted its report in December. Its report concluded that, if and when it is possible to agree on a way forward in future government negotiations, whether the model proposed earlier by the Parliamentary Transport Networks Group will be used to promote some individual projects, they will be negotiated in government negotiations and included in the future Government Programme. Only then will detailed planning, seeking partners, finding funding models and so on begin. Today, Budget Manager Mäkinen was proactive in the Committee on Finance, and he made it clear that quite a bypass took place, whereas, contrary to the timetable and package of the working group you have set up, we have already set up a project company, and 73 million from the ARA and 37 million from the State Security of Supply are being robbed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u11	President! Although this economic growth is slowing down, we, on the other hand, have a break in the central government debt ratio. There must be some way to maintain good economic growth. The only problem we have is that our households, who have also raised our state finances by increasing consumption, are too much in debt at the moment, and in fact this is the case throughout the EU. And in the EU, government debt has also turned to considerable growth. In fact, we have created a debt union here, and we can see that we are about to see a new ECB recovery programme. At the same time, the Bank of Finland's responsibilities will increase, and Finland is also giving up the ESM's unanimity requirement. This is really weird. On the other hand, in this additional budget, I would like to thank the City of Oulu for providing support for, among other things, the conversion of the premises of the Oulu Reception Centre into detention facilities for foreigners. There was also good support for the monitoring of the rights of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u12	Mr President! As a result of economic growth, in fact, it is particularly important that Finland is able to maintain its stability and predictability. It requires that the confidence of households is maintained and that forward-looking measures are needed to support both climate policy and people's mobility, and therefore the rehabilitation of these lines is particularly important. It has been said here on many occasions that, through budgetary funding, this objective cannot be achieved, and it is therefore now necessary for Parliament to support these government efforts to maintain this planning and preparedness for these major transport projects. These support stability and predictability and maintain confidence in households.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u13	Värderade fru talman! Det är bra att regeringen också har lyssnat på svenska riksdagsgruppen som effterlyste tillagsresurser för övervakning av äldrevården är för en dryg vecka sedan. Det är bra att man nu kommer med mer anslag för den, både till Valvira, och om jag förstår saken rautt, också till våra regioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u14	Mr President! We need affordable homes for people, and it was very important that at the end of October Parliament unanimously required that the State Housing Fund continue to be used to build affordable homes for people. Housing is too expensive, and ARA plays an important role in this. That is why it was very confusing that, at this very moment, contrary to this recent parliamentary line, the government is moving away and transferring 73 million from the State Housing Fund to this state budget. I am amazed at the fact that the government, quite contrary to Parliament's completely unanimous position, can go on this state housing fund raid. I think it is wrong and, Minister, I would almost dare to say at this point that Parliament will hardly accept this proposal, because I think that it is certainly the case that the principle goes so far that the government must enjoy the confidence of Parliament and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u15	Let us take two replies at this stage and then Minister Saarikko's brief answer, because he is under schedule pressure. So representatives of Heinonen and Räsänen, Päivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u16	Madam President! Quote from the parliamentary minutes: ‘The employment dispute is held, the fire fall. The government is seeking to strengthen employment by 110,000 during this term of government. This objective will not even be reached halfway. The employment target of 72% is also falling far short. Living in debt doesn't stop. The government has had to give up its own debt target because it is unable to take decisions to improve employment.” Minister of Finance, do you know who made such a huge mistake in assessing Finland's economic policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u23	Madam President! The apparent sexual offences against children and the glaring shortcomings in the services of the elderly are reflected in this amending budget, which is a good thing, the strengthening of services for the elderly and the monitoring of early childhood education, but it must be borne in mind that simple controls are not enough. We need more caring hands, we need more resources. I hope that you, Mr Orpo, will be able to identify in more detail what you meant when you talked about the fact that the air is thick with irresponsible requests for an increase in expenditure or requests for an increase in expenditure. I hope you did not mean these painful needs for improving services for the elderly, where there is a real need for more human resources and where:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u24	So, at this point, Minister Saarikko, a brief speech, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u25	Mr President! I would like to express my warm thanks to Parliament, indeed to all parties, for the fact that the measures needed to resolve this crisis of care for the elderly have received strong support in parliamentary debates: and also for the update of the old-age service law, which has been set in motion in the Ministry, and also for the urgent correction of the situation with regard to the resources for monitoring. It is quite clear that the debate over the last few weeks has increased the pressure on the control tasks of the Regional State Administrative Agencies and Valvira. The threshold for so-called reporting and raising issues has clearly been lowered for both staff and family alike. That is all I consider to be a good thing. Only in this way will we be able to identify the shortcomings and hopefully to re-establish the debate in that we also remember that there is good care, and we are aware that the supervisory authority's actions at best and, fortunately, in most cases, only control or, at most, a comment is enough, not extreme situations which have been heard about in recent weeks, such as the interruption of operations. This amending budget therefore allocates more resources to Valvira, the regional government agencies — that is, the structures of the current control — the Ombudsman, who has already been identified with additional funding specifically for older workers, and the National Institute for Health and Welfare, which is responsible for preparing a national quality survey for family members and service customers, so that we can also compare the experience of people at national level with the quality of services. These resources will be allocated to both early childhood education, disability and old-age work. As far as this whole and its euro amounts are concerned, the sooner the Parliament accepts this proposal, the sooner the posts can be opened up and this additional support for workers made available to the supervisory authority as soon as possible. I would also like to say that the Ministry of Finance was very sympathetic to these proposals, and it was exceptionally easy to present and move forward on this solution in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u26	Then we'll continue our conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u27	Mr President! What does this additional budget prove? Well, that proves that the government reads afternoon newspapers. This additional budget is a headline budget, only a reaction to public mistreatment of the elderly and sexual offences. Decisions are made under duress, and leadership is lacking.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u32	Mr President! I do not understand what Mr Harakka has said about blue stickers, but indeed this budget has allocated funds to these very two important items. This is now the last budget of the current government. Employment has indeed improved, rather than targets. Of course we still have problems. We just met and discussed the situation at the Turku Region Delegation for the unemployed. Criticism came from the implementation of the active model, and more resources are also needed for personal guidance for the employment services. In the big picture, I think the situation is good. Finland was, when I arrived, the President, again here in Parliament, in a slightly brain-dead situation. We had become 100,000 unemployed and came in 6 billion in debt and taxes increased. It was important that this turning point has been made, to which Minister Orpo also pointed out that the employment rate has been raised prematurely to the target and the central government finances have been balanced prematurely. We're just gonna have to move on from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u33	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that the government quickly addressed the problems that have been raised and is putting forward additional resources, not only for the prevention of sexual crimes, but also for the monitoring of services for the elderly. In this context, it is worth noting that Parliament, in practice on the initiative of President Risiko, has already allocated EUR 250,000 to the Ombudsman in order to strengthen the control of elderly services in the Office, and now the government is proposing an additional EUR 350,000 — an excellent thing. We've been talking about bombs. In my opinion, today's bomb, the very positive bomb, is that the employment rate has already risen to 72.6%. Government policy has been successful: economic growth has accelerated and employment has improved. Of course, economic growth has been influenced by other factors, but the government has also played an important role in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u34	Mr President! I cannot help but draw attention once again to the fact that we are talking about the state economy and that women, as speakers, are once again a significant minority. About four of the fourteen speeches have been made by women, so it is our duty to take a position on this debate. I would also like to stress that many studies show that it is important for Finns to take care of the elderly and to prevent the exclusion of young people. That is exactly what this amending budget is investing in. Young people’s workshop activities and detective youth work, among other things, will amount to nearly 2 million. This is also of great value. In addition to putting resources into control and guidance in early childhood education, disability services and services for the elderly, this is an excellent thing, and it should not talk about blue stickers, but we must respect the values that Finns have in these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u35	Madam President! I myself would also like to talk about this revenue from the State Housing Fund. 73 million will be excluded from the funds intended to contribute to the construction of affordable housing. We in this Parliament have wanted to ensure that we have a long-term independent housing fund that will enable us to maintain the construction of affordable housing in the future. $73 million to your track company or to your tracks is a big move from it. Sure, we'll have to build tracks, but you're making a hell of a choice. Can you withdraw this proposal for the ARA fund?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u36	Let us take two replies, Mr Niikko and Mr Karimäki, then the Minister's reply and then let us continue with the replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u37	Mr President! A step in the right direction is for the government to add money to the fight against sexual crimes and preventative work of an online police officer. But if, Minister Orpo, you remember this story, it started three years ago when, in the Department of Administration and Security, where we unanimously ran funds for online police activities, the one project that did not get even EUR 200,000 was actually driven down in 2018 when the government did not want to give it — which was returned this year. But these proposals, which the government is doing now, are just a way of proving that we are doing something when we have lost control of the situation. Many measures are rather late, as for the elderly, and in that sense they should have been carried out much earlier. But the Social Democrats can't make it any easier. You are talking here about the state housing fund robbery, and yet Kojamo this year also distributes EUR 71.6 million in dividends to professional organisations. EUR 114 million in profits, and yet they sold 1600 rental dwellings to international investors, which means that rents will also rise for them. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u38	Mr President! In the metropolitan area, the lack of affordable housing makes access to labour more difficult and slows down economic growth, but it also increases poverty to a significant extent. Housing is really expensive in the capital region. On the basis of the report by the Audit Committee, Parliament has just approved the orientation and development of housing policy, and one of the key issues is the strengthening of the State Housing Fund, its development and the need for it in the future. I cannot understand the fact that, contrary to Parliament's decision, you will receive over EUR 70 million from this State Housing Fund. I agree with what Mr Viitanen said earlier here that Parliament cannot accept such a measure, with which you undermine the will of Parliament. And what answer do you give to the poor people and families in the capital region who seek housing and find no place to live and no roof over their heads, which they could reasonably buy or rent?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u39	Let us take Mr Viitanen and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u40	Madam President! I would like to welcome Mr Nikon to the Socialist line — namely, we are the only party that has so far proposed that dividends from these companies be taxed. A withholding tax would bring about 400 million to the Treasury. I very much hope that other parties will also take up this motion, because with this money, if what, 400 million, could actually secure humane care for our elderly people and make fair choices of value, for example, so that low-income pensioners, students and unemployed people would be taken into account differently from today's when the government disciplines and cuts. Let's make value choices and tax these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u41	And then, Minister, please, no more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u42	Madam President! Now I want to reassure you about this state housing fund. Firstly, the State Housing Fund has some EUR 2 billion in liquid assets and, above all, I think that Parliament's will to achieve more affordable housing production is quite right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u47	Madam President! The purpose of the State Housing Fund is to support housing, support housing policy, support the creation of affordable rental housing, affordable housing, which is a pressing shortage here in the capital region. In the past, the State Housing Fund has supported rail projects, such as Rail-Joker, which is a very important cross-border rail service for the capital region. It was part of the MAL deal. In return for this rail investment, the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area undertook to increase housing patterns in this area. That's right. That's when it brought more apartments. Now you have a need to capitalize Oy Suomen Rata Ab, and that is why you are piling money from the State Housing Fund to capitalize this other company. Last spring, the Audit Committee presented a commendable report on the development of housing policy. It stressed the need for long-term sustainability, and Declaration No. 8 specifically says that the wealth of the State Housing Fund is used for housing. It was adopted unanimously here. You, Mr Orpo, voted in favour of this statement, and now you have done the exact opposite. This is unacceptable. This is not responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u48	Let us take a few comments and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u49	Mr President! Why should the financing of rail investments be set at the cost of low- and medium-income tenants in Finland? Isn't it right that this is covered by a joint pot? Why do tenants have to pay for railway investments in Finland? And why is there that money there, Minister Orphan? Well, because you weakened the terms of the ARA funding for your first job at the beginning of this parliamentary term. The interest has been raised. The municipalities have specifically said that these handicaps should be reversed, that the interest rate should be dropped there close to zero. You've been acting differently. That's why the money hasn't been spent. Now that it has been allowed to accumulate it, you will now take the money paid by the tenants and put it into these investments. Minister Orpo, why do small tenants have to pay for railway investments in Finland? And why are you acting against Parliament's will?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u50	Madam President! First of all, with regard to these investments in the railways, this money is only just starting up these projects, and with regard to housing funding, it must be borne in mind that the actual budget has managed the state housing policy and developed it with determination. This amending budget could, in fact, be described as an amending budget for security, in which the police receive more money, the care of the elderly is improved, its supervision is not really going to solve it, but it is the deterrent effect that these service providers will have. It is also important to speed up and act on asylum and immigration issues so that quality levels are also improved. From the point of view of safety, it is also very important that FinnHEMS Oy, i.e. the construction of medical helicopter bases in Seinäjoki and Utti, is implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u51	Madam President! I feel like this conversation is going to be a little chilly. I personally see transport policy, housing policy and environmental policy as one big whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u56	Let us take one more response at this stage. Then a brief reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u57	Madam President! Giving more control resources to care for the elderly is only a first aid measure. That's not the answer. I ask you, Minister: have you ever wondered why we are in this situation? I know. We have five quality recommendations overall and they have been weakened from one quality recommendation to another. In 2008, we had the best quality recommendation, which defined the amount of carer size. How do I know? I know because I was then a nurse and that recommendation in hand I marched to demand more medical staff — and otherwise it was obtained. This is not only the fault of the market economy, but rather the fact that we do not define the amount of carership, and it is absolutely necessary to bring it into the law. I ask you, Minister: you are now giving first aid, but you are not solving this catastrophic state of care for the elderly. We're missing some caring hands. We need a tailboard, we need a nurse's statute. Are you ready to bring it next season?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u58	And then the Minister's answer. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u59	Thank you, Speaker! Let's start with this ARA. I think it is now very clear that this is a question of land use, housing and transport planning in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u73	Mr President! I shall now return to the beginning of what was discussed at the beginning. It is true that employment in this country has improved in the high economic climate. Still, debt is taken and plenty. Well, maybe this is a coercive thing, because tax revenues have not increased in the same proportion as jobs have increased, and one of the proofs of this is ARA robbery. That's where the government gets the money. Now, Minister, I want to know what kind of measures have been taken to improve employment. Do they include an active model of 18 working hours per month? This amount does not even meet the condition of being employed. I would also like to know how much of the so-called new jobs are new jobs that are still in force and what the average wage is in these. Is it close to the average wage of Finns, which is 3,400 per month, or is it close to the most common Finnish salary, which is 2,500 per month, or is it closer to what most Finns get, i.e. 1900 euros per month?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u74	Madam President! These papers state that the net borrowing of the central government is estimated at 1.9 billion this year. If I have understood correctly, this means that we are still living with foreign investors and, in due course, we are paying interest. In order to correct this development once and for all, what do you, Minister of Finance, assess what the employment rate should be? Fortunately, it is now 72.6 according to today's announcement. What should it probably be in order for us to cope with the equation that will be formed by the fact that after a decade, ten years, we will have almost 300,000 more people over 65 years of age and a reduction in the number of people working all the time? What employment rate is likely to enable us to do this in such a way that we will not be dependent on foreign investors in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u75	Madam President! I know exactly that if this kind of sum is transferred from ARA, then it certainly has no effect on whether the interest rate rises in rents or not, and it is not for the ARA alone to decide when to obtain affordable housing. It's a lot of cities, zoning and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u78	Mr President! It is good that we are increasing the resources for monitoring the care of the elderly, but we also urgently need additional resources to implement the care of the elderly ourselves, i.e. better care. Mr President! Oulu has been on display because of terrible sexual suspicions. However, it is important to remember that sexual crime is not a new phenomenon or just a phenomenon affecting Oulu, and it is not just a matter to be reduced to the immigration issue. Mr President! It is good that online police work is now being strengthened and that: Oulu receives additional resources to prevent sexual offences and strengthen support for victims, but since sexual offences occur all over Finland, the fight against sexual offences must also be everywhere and support services for victims must be strengthened throughout Finland. Mr President! The Board of Directors proposes funding for the child care centre operating model in Helsinki and Oulu. This is good, but more resources are needed to support victims throughout Finland. For example, support centres for sexual violence, Serit, are needed in all regions, and we also need more resources for shelters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u79	Madam President! Mr Sarkkinen may agree with this. These resources must undoubtedly be increased, but it is now a good start that this children's house is being set up in Oulu and can support victims of sexual crimes. Above all, these increases in this amending budget in terms of security and asylum policy are well-founded. I believe that EUR 1.6 million in additional resources for the so-called online police to combat online sexual crime will receive the support of the whole Chamber. In addition, the courts, legal aid and the prosecutor's office will have to pay a significant additional sum of hundreds of thousands of euros, because one part of this problem is that these cases will take too long to be dealt with. Especially for the victim, it's an unreasonable situation. I have to say that the important figure we need to remember today in terms of the economy is this 72.6. Yes, I remember that Antti Rinne, who is not here and hopefully will be here as soon as possible, said that not even half of the government's target will be achieved. We are now at 72.6% of the employment rate. I am sure that the Social Democrats will be able to join us in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u80	Mr President! Minister Orpo, you praised the government's economic policy and, of course, it is a great thing that employment has increased and the economy has grown, but that is not the overall picture of economic policy as a whole. I would like to know how you feel about the fact that, despite everything, the structural deficit has grown in a situation in which we are experiencing an upswing in the international economy and many major structural reforms are not being carried out, especially as the statistics clearly show that the Finnish economy has followed the same economic cycle in the euro area with two exceptions: the first is that we are going after the euro area as a whole, and our upswing and downturns are going to be long. If you think about it now, we are practically in a bit of a slide stage at this stage. Now that you spoke earlier about those decisive measures and what is not appropriate, I would like to hear what is appropriate and what is the decisive action. This 72.6 should also be seen as having to take a new cyclically adjusted figure at a later stage. This doesn't include everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u81	Madam President! It is absolutely good that EUR 1 million was added to measures to combat the phenomenon of grooming and to strengthen action in social media. In addition to this, we should also remember that we have excellent organisations, such as Save the Children, who have worked in Finland for the longest time in the prevention and treatment of sexual crimes against children. I would hope that this will be remembered in the future. It is the case that children in these criminal processes have to stay far too long, which means that we also need better legislation by the next government to enable children in the criminal process to cope more quickly with that trial and to have a more sensible strategy for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u82	Madam President! Everyone needs their own home, and there is a huge need for affordable and affordable housing all over Finland, and I do think that if the State Housing Fund has EUR 2 billion of money, it should be made to move from there and for the benefit of those who need these apartments. I would like to see it taken even more seriously in the future. I would also like to thank you for the fact that the Internet police have been strengthened, because online these sexual crimes are thinking about children and thinking about young people... There really is a lot of dark and bad going around, and we have many children who are badly involved. So, thanks a lot for this. Thank you, too, for remembering veterans. However, it is a small amount mainly to offset the freezing effects of the National Pensions Index. Then I would have liked to point out these grievances in the services of the elderly: We need a lot of hands there, and we need control and we need to strengthen it, but I would like to ask: what does this $180,000 actually get?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u83	Mr President! Here are good targeted targets, especially for the supervision of care for the elderly and then for online police activities. But I really wanted to catch up on this employment situation, also referring to Mr Tolppanen's speech when you spoke about the active model and everything else. You might want to see what's really going on here in Finland. I was at the Tampere Recruit. There were thousands of jobs open there. There was Sastamala's Vexve, who was looking for a CNC engineer, a metalman, an engineer. There the City of Tampere applied for 30 bus drivers. That's where R-kioski applied for an entrepreneur. That's where they picked up Kotipizza salesmen. There was a department that tried to get IT experts in Pietarsaari and Kainuu. There the city of Kuopio applied for kindergarten teachers. We have a huge number of jobs open, and this change has been achieved by the government together with the social partners. This world has changed completely over the last four years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u84	Mr President! This setting-up of a rail transport project company is a very big thing. It will serve the whole of Finland, as the Minister of Finance said, and it will give business a chance to act, to improve the opportunities for housing construction, and it was actually the culmination of the finale of this government's transport policy, an excellent last-minute effort, which will bring tremendous results to Finnish society as a whole. I would like to say to the representatives of the SDP that you are criticising this form of capitalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u91	Mr President! There's a little colored truth. One-off income is used to finance one-off expenses. This is really a choice of values. If you are of the opinion that a think tank with nearly a billion assets is one that must not at all be taken to common good purposes and capitalizations of money, for example for universities, the Academy of Finland or, for example, for railway companies, it is your choice. It has become a terrible racket every year when this has been proposed, even though experts are already of the opinion that it is loose. Instead, you prefer to go to the purse of low-income tenants and weaken the completion of affordable housing in this country, and your performance over the last four years in affordable rental housing in urban areas is not very praiseworthy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u92	Mr President! Let us return to this employment situation. Just as Mr Satonen has just said, we have the situation in our good country that there are plenty of jobs open in some places and there are not enough experts. Have you in the government thought about how we could get Finns to move within Finland, so that we could think of moving to another place where there are jobs open? Have you considered this and how you intend to proceed from now on to find those vacancies as well? Then, Mr President, I would also like to thank you for having EUR 5 million in this amending budget, which now comes to this hugely important project in Kvarken. A lot of work has been done on it, and it is good and good to see that it has gone this far. It will contribute to the future of Ostrobothnia, but also to the future of our country as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u93	Mr President! Recently, there has been talk not only of care for the elderly but also of early childhood education and over-skilling. It has also been said that nowhere is there a definition of what temporary deviation in personalization refers to. But this is not the case; it is clear from the law, and the explanatory statement states that the situation which the provision refers to as a temporary derogation may be, for example, that children who use the same place in the day-care centre are present at the same time on an occasional and short-term basis, for example because of a sudden change in the working hours of their parents. But it cannot be continuous or day-to-day, nor can it last throughout the day of operation, but must be of a short-term and occasional nature. What we have read recently is something other than short-term and random. It is therefore extremely good that EUR 350000 has now been added to the monitoring of early childhood education. In fact, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has now made it possible for regional government agencies to carry out unannounced inspections of early childhood education. In the past, a complaint had to be lodged first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u94	Madam President! Just as many speeches have shown, the government's economic policy has worked and the employment rate has risen by nearly 5 percentage points upwards, and that means billions in public finances, billions of dollars, a better situation than compared to the previous term of government. Demarit here, I understand your pain: it stings the soul when economic policy works and people get to work. I don't understand what the negative is about people getting to work, especially young people. For them, it is an extremely important matter for them to be able to work. After a study place to work — can it be better? And many of the long-term unemployed have been employed. Think of it, too, when you are here shouting that it should not be so. It's hard for you to follow your thoughts. And one more thing: Once the economy has started to rise elsewhere in the country, the best thing about housing policy is that we keep the economy functioning and that, once we have these apartments in other parts of Finland, jobs are created there, and the pressure here will ease. This is the right policy to hold on to, and the whole country must be kept inhabited. That is an absolute objective if one day we want to pay for these debts, because it is just one city.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u95	Madam President! Just as has been said here: if you want affordable housing, then you have to look at land use, housing, transport as a whole — that is exactly how it is. And, of course, we must support rail transport — that is exactly what it is. Of course, we need to support and expand that area of employment — that is exactly what it is. But the question is why it is financed by means of small and medium-income assets. This completely changes the principle for which the State Housing Fund has been used. This extra income is contrary to all the principles of what has been done so far. It's perfectly clear. ARA’s role is to finance interest subsidy, to finance demolition grants, start-up grants, direct housing activities. The fact that this money is capitalising on a new company does not yet provide any housing. It's not even a promise for one more apartment. If through the MAL agreement such money would be directed, it would be a direct promise to increase housing production, as the government could oblige municipalities to increase planning at the points where it is needed. And if you are concerned that the ARA is not working effectively enough: Well, ARA's resources have been cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u96	Let us take two replies at this stage, then the Minister's reply and then go on to the list of speakers for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u97	Mr President! The employment rate of 72.6 % is an excellent achievement, and we can congratulate the government on that, but of course we should not lie on such a fine outcome but rather try to move forward, because experts believe that between 75 % and 76 % may be the goal that we will be able to guarantee welfare services in the future, but for this we need innovation, training, tax restructuring, productivity improvement, labour market reform and, as Mr Henriksson said, greater mobility. But I would have asked the Minister for Finance now that, when one thing that we are, however, lacking or less well-managed than in our neighbouring countries, is that there will be less foreign investment here than, for example, Sweden, what we could do to make foreign investment here, which would then bring more jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u98	Mr President! After all, these MAL agreements are not a new invention. On the contrary, they have successful results over the years, and the Audit Committee also says that they should be continued.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u101	And then the minister responds, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u102	Madam President! First of all, from this big picture of the economy: Representative Aalto raised this structural deficit. In fact, from 18 to 19, the structural deficit will be reduced by less than 1.1% to 0.8%. This is in itself the right direction, and public finances are almost balanced in themselves, and budgetary finances are not. And now I will continue to return to these employment issues and to these means. So imagine that we actually have a situation where we have tens of thousands of job vacancies at the moment, which means that we have a problem of labour mobility, matching and skills, and we may also have a problem of incentives. In other words, these issues need to be addressed with greater determination. If, as I described, Kainuu is in the process of being created over the next few years, if investment is progressing, more than 4,000 private jobs, then we already know that it requires exceptional measures to fill these private sector jobs, i.e. to ensure that investment is started. Investment, on the other hand, needs a stable environment to move forward. This means keeping taxation on employment, entrepreneurship, investment affordable and internationally competitive. At this time, tax increases on entrepreneurship and employment, capital, investment are not appropriate. Access to skilled labour is everything. Fortunately, there is a great deal of talk in society about the development of continuous learning so that everyone who is working or unemployed or young people can continue to maintain their skills and labour market qualifications. This is something we have to worry about, because technology changes the nature of our working life all the time. We need to reform the social security system that encourages the reception of work, and we need to reform working life, like the family leave reform that we all want, but we also need the means of moving the labour force, and we need those housing. That is why I now say, my dear Social Democrats and the Left Alliance, that I think you should now admit that your logic has failed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u109	Then let's go on the list for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u110	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The 2019 amending budget is therefore under discussion. As a representative of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I would like to comment on this section of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Mr President! This is a government swan song. Besides the swan song to the government, that song also includes the voice of the elderly and the elderly — at last. It is a pity that the ministers, the government, may not remember or know why we are in this situation, and now we should think about it. The government gives first aid to care for the elderly, but no solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u113	Mr President! In my own speech, I will focus on the expenditure side of the amending budget, in particular on issues relating to sexual crime and security. There are a number of positive expenditure increases in the amending budget as such. The need for increased resources for advice and supervision in institutional care is certainly evident to all of us. Investigating sexual violence and exploitation and making the judicial process slightly more victim-friendly is also a positive thing. Training and awareness-raising efforts for asylum seekers, young people and those working with young people in relation to sexual offences are also welcome. However, there is a lack of action in the budget, which would perhaps be the most acute in relation to the debate we have had over the past few weeks on sexual offences, which should have taken place but which was silenced in previous weeks, months and years. First of all, there is no action, no plan or any euro in the amending budget for the kind of education that is aimed at the Santa-Finnish sex offenders, although it is obvious, and there are several studies that suggest that the job is not under control and that there is much confusion and the need for education is also found among the Santa-Finnishs. Above all, there is a lack of identification of the perhaps most shameful problem of our sexual violence and exploitation in this society, namely that Finland, one of the richest countries in the world, is not even able to guarantee timely crisis assistance even to victims of sexual violence and exploitation who are underage. In Tampere, for example, all crisis relief and therapy services for both adults and children are blocked and even the crisis assistance is queued up, even the children are waiting in line. I cannot understand that in a country like this, children are not helped when they become victims of a serious violent crime. I can't understand it. If there is enough money for anything at all, would it not be right there at the top of the priority list? Well, we politicians often hear what a good presentation it is, but it lacks this and that and that important thing. I myself have been hearing such criticisms for many years. It is stupid criticism because there are always things to improve in the world and no proposal is perfect. The reason why, unlike my own ways, I am making this criticism in this amending budget is that, in my view, the issue is not just that we are taking small steps now, at least what can be done now, but that it is a fundamental misunderstanding of the phenomenon and the background is that there is no real will and interest in eradicating and correcting sexual crimes in this society, or in this government. The working paper on which this amending budget is based is more election work and response to the most flagrant headlines than an honest attempt to tackle an extremely difficult problem without doubt. It is more of a momentary patching-up, even a little bit, of the gathering together of the processes already under way, even remotely, than an attempt to understand what sexual violence and exploitation are really about and what are the means to curb this phenomenon in our society and to help people who have been victims of it. I hope that the next government will be more awake and wiser with this. Sexual violence and exploitation is a terriblely difficult issue. Its perception requires understanding of difficult correlations, requires learning and familiarisation with different simultaneous phenomena, and requires confidence in soft practices and measures that may not appear very quickly. That's not all gonna happen in a minute. It is not put together by crisis response for the press release, but requires thorough attention and serious consideration. Finnish society, or at least Finnish politics, does not seem ready for that yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u114	Madam President! Perhaps to begin with, it is necessary and good and necessary in itself to increase some of these control resources for services for people with disabilities and the elderly, as well as for early childhood education, but I agree very much with what Mrs Harakka said symbolically that this is now the blue sticker patching, unfortunately. We all know that we have serious problems in the care of the elderly, for example, and these rather tragic events in public have revealed that we cannot continue at this rate. We will need more resources to make sure that our elderly people receive well-deserved care and that all those who need care receive it in our civilised society. It will require more resources, certainly more resources, such as home care for the elderly, and better opportunities for service housing. Then, of course, it is absolutely necessary to have a lot of things said here: to write a nurse’s statute. We have now seen that the recommendations do not work. When they have not come to the desired results, then action must be taken and put to the law. It is to be welcomed, President, that all parties, except the coalition, have committed themselves to bringing this carership into line with the law. So far, in the end, it has not really been clear, and I interpret this confusion, which sometimes says that we are in favour of a measure, but not a numerical one, and when and when, so that this is because, in fact, the coalition has opposed this entry into the law in the past, opposes it now and will continue to oppose it in the future. But that is why it is very important that the rest of us are committed to this, and I think it is also important to hold this debate on values in the run-up to the elections, that we need the resources to do this and who is prepared to put them there. It is also a good thing that there are a number of these measures to combat sexual crimes against children and young people, as well as security factors related to immigration. Of course, in this context, I recall the importance of joint action by the parliamentary groups, for example, calling for these measures in the amending budget. That is precisely what the chairman of our parliamentary group, Mr Lindtman, has said: that groups should be convened once and for all and that they should be committed to these objectives. It's important. Then, as far as the previous discussion on this housing fund robbery is concerned, it is clear that land use, housing and transport must be linked together, and throughout the years these MAL agreements have been implemented with excellent results between municipalities and the state. Everyone seems to be satisfied with them, and Parliament has also called in its own statements for them to be continued and, on the contrary, for them to be taken in a more advanced direction. But that is quite different from the fact that the government now, despite the fact that Minister Orpo saw everything here as almost fantastic, will act in such a way that the State Housing Fund will begin to be emptied without having a direct link to housing, and in practice it will happen so that the state will lose revenue and then, as a general budget, this money from the State Housing Fund and the Security of Supply Centre will actually be taken into account in order to make it look as if it were different from these figures, and I do not think that it is right. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has just made a very important line. End of October, 24. On the day of, in this Chamber, the matter was discussed and decided. In this Parliament as a whole, it required that the funds from the State Housing Fund should continue to be used to provide people with affordable homes. In this respect, too, it is an important line that I have been following this debate quite closely for many years and always from here there are certain passions that will eventually be brought into the general budget of the State Housing Fund and say that the whole fund has been so well-seen, and think that the market forces, for example, will manage this affordable housing. But this is how we've seen they don't. We need affordable homes. We need state aid to build them. We need state aid, for example, for home renovations and many more. It was therefore important that Parliament unanimously required that this money be used specifically for the benefit of the inhabitants. These have been collected from people on low and medium incomes through the repayments and interest rates of arava loans, and so it has been a tradition for a long time that this money will then be used to control the housing costs of these people, people on low and medium incomes, tenants and provide homes. That is why this is a big issue, if we are going to slow this matter down in the opposite direction, quite contrary to what Parliament has demanded. That is why, President-in-Office, with regard to this robbery, I have thought that it is strange that the government, for the last time, now decides to go on such a raid on the housing fund against the will of the Parliament, and since that is the case, I have thought that this transfer is hardly necessarily approved by Parliament because it is so contrary to this unanimous line taken in October. And I would like to repeat what I said earlier: is it not, however, President-in-Office, that the government should enjoy the confidence of Parliament and not the other way around, as it seems to be the case now?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u115	Mr President! Three themes: blue sticker, deficit and Stockholm syndrome. There has been talk here of the great issues of the large arc, but let us remember that the additional budget has been made of quite small elements. As acknowledged by the Ministry of Finance, the reason for this additional budget has been public mismanagement of the elderly and concern for sexual offences. These amounts, forced by the headlines, are inevitably symbolic and are not intended to correct the problem itself, but to show that something is being done. That's why I'm saying trouble is treated with a blue sticker. A EUR 720000 control money will be available for the tragedy of the care of the elderly. That is one-and-a-halfth of a thousandth of a thousandth of the total budget. Well, that certainly does not help the serious problems of care for the elderly, which, according to the Minister of Finance, Mr Orvo, are not a responsible market economy. But profit-making is certainly not responsible unless it is controlled and subject to conditions, and it is clear that this is necessary in care and health care. The Minister of Finance acknowledged that after three years of growth there will be a budget deficit. Even now, the government is taking on more than EUR 200 million in debt. The amount of debt in this government is rising to a record. You'd think you should look in the mirror. There has been a stubborn reduction in taxes, which is completely wrong in this economic cycle. Taxes have been reduced from wealthy Finns, millions of heirs, monopolistic entrepreneurs. The tax base has been slashed with forest gifts and other bulldozers. According to an objective report from the National Audit Office — which will otherwise be discussed later this evening — the government itself has achieved nine to six of its own economic policy objectives. That's a good result. Six out of nine. But here perhaps it is not appropriate to bang the suspenders — as it seems to be the custom in this Chamber — when the conditions have been quite favourable. The three objectives have not been met, unfortunately quite central: the sustainability gap does not shrink very much; the structural deficit, which is precisely the cyclically-independent indicator of the state of public finances, will not be corrected; and thirdly, the debt level will indeed rise after the government term, as has been the case up until now. Now that we are facing slow growth, a more windy future and global uncertainty, we are eating from the burden of the next government by taking on more debt. In this regard, it is therefore questionable that this government wants to tie the hands of its successor in the financing of rail projects, and this is also reflected in the additional budget as an internal problem. A working group chaired by Minister Orpo, the Ministry of Finance, submitted its report on ‘Thefuture ‘December20,the last year’and concluded that the future government would have to build a financing model and consider following its strategic choices. The Ministry of Transport bypassed the report of this working party — it was a bailout of Minister Berner. The Ministry of Finance wanted to ensure that the state could conduct tough negotiations with municipalities and other beneficiaries and take care of the state's negotiating position, but Berner now beat Orpo. Prime Minister Sipilä rightly stressed that Mr Berner must complete this project at the same time as he transfers to the Swedish bank and Wallenberg investment empire. Well, that's why it was so heartbreaking to hear how Minister Orpo himself was excited about this Berner model. If it was so excellent, why did the Ministry of Finance itself not do this just two months ago? This seems to have been the case that Minister Orpoon has been struck by Stockholm syndrome. He identifies himself strongly with those who have forced him to join a literal train. It is true that everyone is in favour of a fast track, but when this government has not received any shovels in the country for four years, would it be reasonable for the next government to decide its own tools for its own work? I don't think that's too much to ask. Finally, from the blue sticker to Sitra, Mr President: Woe to the shouting and the commotion that has been heard over the years, when the SDP has presented a small part of Sitra's EUR 800 million capital to be earned into the capital of universities, the Academy of Finland or the fairway company. Experts – for example, last week in Helsingin Sanomat – have said that, when Sitra has a larger balance sheet than many listed companies, the scope and content of its operations are not assessed as strictly as those of research institutions operating with less than ten times the budget. It must then be said that it is a value choice that not a small part of this retirement home for politicians should be taken but that we should go to the pockets of tenants for affordable rental housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u116	Madam President! It is always a pleasure to listen to representative Haraka’s verbal language about reprimanding the government. There could be a good grain in there sometimes. As far as these lines are concerned, so little strange sounds — does it mean that the SDP then opposes the development of rail links to the west, to the north and to the east, as you pointed out in your own speech here, that the present government should not have promoted these and should not go ahead with them?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u117	One reply, Mr Harakka, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u118	Mr President! This is a deliberate mishearsing once again, if I say specifically that everyone is in favour of a fast track. So there is a political consensus on this, so it would be reasonable for the government that is actually taking up work, the government during which the shovel is being knocked down, also to assign the tools to this work. In any case, the next government will make the decisions that this government was unable to make. This government has not been able to make the choice as to which line and when will be completed. Instead, this government has been able to argue with one another about the order in which action should be taken. The Ministry of Finance has its own idea, which was bypassed by the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Finance was what it was like to secure the state's negotiating position in such a way that the next government would enter into tough negotiations and end its work itself, the Minister of Transport wanted to miss this and it succeeded, and that is why this Stockholm syndrome, as shown by Minister Orpo, was so heartening.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u120	And then let's go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u121	Mr President! It is very good that the amending budget will provide additional funding for monitoring care for the elderly and the disabled. It is sad, however, that the problems of control are only being addressed now after these public noises. Over the past two years, I myself have asked the government a number of written questions, in which, for example, following the alarming messages and information that I have received from nurse organisations, I have asked how the government intends to improve the quality of care for the elderly and to address the shortcomings there, including ghost nurses. So these issues have been discussed by nurse organisations for at least two years. I have also pointed out the shortcomings in control and also the message from the regional authorities that they are not even doing their monitoring work satisfactorily. But the Minister's answer has always been the same: The answer first praised the good projects of the government and, at the same time, it has been said that on average we are on the right track. Mistakes will be corrected by developing self-monitoring and self-monitoring plans. And if there are any problems, then the social security reform will fix the rest of the problems. In general terms, the answer to these written questions has always been in line with this same formula. The care of the elderly and the disabled now needs much larger corrections, such as those provided for in the law. But, of course, I am delighted with these small additions to control. However, I would have liked the government to have had an ear to hear the seriousness of this issue in the past, because it has been said in many mouths and from many quarters. Now, as a result of public pressure, the government is proposing good but totally inadequate financial corrections for the supervision of services for the elderly, the disabled and early childhood education. I am grateful that the government has also decided to step up the monitoring of early childhood education, because there are obviously also shortcomings in the dimensions and quality of activities, especially in the case of private companies. Yes, these recent noises have shown that profit-making in the care and care of elderly people and early childhood education is always a bad situation, as it is so easy to lead to unethical activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u122	One reply, Mr Heikkinen, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u123	Mr President! It is great that there is more money for control, but I feel strongly that no matter how much control we have, it is not a guarantee of good care. That good treatment is built on other things. And it is somewhat contradictory that even in this debate, the opposition's speeches are understated in such a way that you always bring up its social reform and project. Social reform is a key issue for all of this. The parties in the Parliament House have tried to find solutions. And it is precisely if you, the opposition, block this debate and delay this, that the current situation will continue on the ground. Large companies are taking up an increasing proportion of care for the elderly and the disabled. At present, companies already have half of the service production. There is a need for a reform of the social security system, for the county to have completely different means of providing services for the elderly. There will be competition in history, there will be total outsourcing in history. If we want good care for the elderly and a better situation for the disabled, then it is worth voting in favour of social welfare reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u124	Now to the list of speakers. Let me remind you that two hours will be up around 4:10.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u125	Madam President! The development of employment should be welcomed, and I would also like to give tribute to the government for that. But there are dark clouds in the sky if we consider the future of the economic situation. There has already been reference to the sustainability gap, and indeed social reform has been seen as the most important structural reform that could have an impact on this sustainability gap and, at the moment, this social reform in this Parliament is in a very worrying situation. I am not a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health myself, so I cannot comment on what the representative said in the previous speech about this delay, but I believe that this delay has been most affected by the political cow trades which were completely unnecessarily brought into this social reform to obscure its original intentions. If it had not come to this model of freedom of choice and, on the other hand, this regional structure as such, I believe that this would already be in the finish line. Yes, it seems that the most significant structural reform will remain for the next parliamentary term, at least for the moment. And I personally regret that the government has still not corrected the worst problems in this proposal for social reform, because I have tried and wanted to take a very constructive view of this. Well, we should also thank the government for this enhanced supervision of elderly services and early childhood education. These are very welcome measures, but even more important – just as Mr Heikkinen has said here – is to get that level of care and care in place, and also adequate staffing. However, it is not by mere supervision that the hands that care for them are added to the services of the elderly or to the nursery. And I am not simply relying on this social reform, in this form which is currently here, to reduce this improvement in the level of services for the elderly. In fact, what is needed is that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u126	Mr President! Our employment situation is in a situation where the objectives of this period have been achieved and the trend in the employment rate in January was up to 72.6 per cent. Thus, the number of people employed has increased by some 140,000 during this term of government, and this is of course important in the sense that it means that our unemployment expenditure is falling, and also that so many people currently have jobs and livelihoods. But as far as this actual draft amending budget is concerned, of course, it is much smaller when we live in the last few weeks of the parliamentary term than we usually do in the draft amending budget. Here are some investments in monitoring social welfare and health care and early childhood education, and then the government has also responded to the situation in Oulu, and at the same time different operating models are piloted through Oulu. Mr President! As regards the investigation and prevention of sexual offences against these children, in the supplementary budget, the children's house's operating model receives funding both in Helsinki and in Oulu. Under EUR 2 million of the amending budget is one of the measures and resources invested in activities capable of preventing crime or otherwise supporting children who may be the subject of a suspected sexual offence or after-actions. For guidance and development supporting the launch of the children's home model, and for assistance supporting the launch of the children's home, it is proposed to provide fair EUR 800000 for this year and EUR 500000 for Oulu to be used for a pilot project to strengthen psychosocial support for children and young people in order to prevent sexual crimes against minors. This is particularly important because the psychiatric services of children and young people in our region have for a long time now, for more than ten years, been dwindling and their need for resources has already dwindled too low. In that sense, it is now important to be able to strengthen this support. Earlier, at the beginning of the month, the Government, with regard to the Ministry of Well-being and Health, allocated grants to the Oulu Mother and Child Home and Shelter Association and, for example, to Vuolle Setlementinen ry, the so-called Oulun Sons House, and also to the Family Federation for preventive work. It is also important that online police and police activities receive additional resources. The premises of the Oulu Reception Centre have been moving for the past two years into the premises of the detention unit for foreigners, and last year, in this Chamber, the establishment of a detention unit in Oulu was already approved, but the funding has now been allocated to it in this amending budget, amounting to more than EUR 2 million. This is why it is necessary that the other detention units of ours, which are two and where there has been a avoidable number of places, are located and still located in Southern Finland, so this detention unit in Oulu will also respond to the needs of all Northern Finland. Mr President! As far as these other investments in the amending budget are concerned, the piloting of new service models for employment and business services is concerned with a transfer of EUR 3 million from the operating expenditure of the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) to the allocation of public employment and business services, and it is also proposed to use an additional currency for business development projects specifically for new technology investment projects with significant employment impact. Here are a few withdrawals from this draft amending budget, which, as I said at the beginning, is in line with the spirit of the parliamentary term but nevertheless responsive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u127	Madam President! We must thank the good things in this amending budget. For example, additional efforts to monitor care for the elderly and early childhood education: very welcome and important. And online police resources: they have long been called for, and it is also a very positive additional effort. As far as this debate on social reform is concerned, I deplore the fact that the opposition is being accused of delay. The problems of the second time in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs go from there to the preparation of the government itself. If it had been possible to fix these problems, then perhaps now we would not be in this situation, so in my opinion this kind of accusation is quite pointless and even inappropriate. But as far as this State Housing Fund is concerned, the Left Alliance is in favour of moving on the tracks — both public transport and private transport. Railways must always be an attractive alternative to single-caring. But what we do not understand and what we do not accept is that this capitalisation of the new company is financed by the State Housing Fund, whose assets have been collected from low- and medium-income tenants. This is the equation that raises questions here and to which I hope that Parliament will bring about a change in its work. The State Housing Fund is operated by ARA and the functions of ARA are very clear: they pay interest subsidies, they pay various start-up grants, they pay demolition eardrums — directly targeted at affordable housing. This is the wrong address, where to take the money to capitalise the new company, no matter how good the aim or goal of the new company is. I will not comment on whether this company model is the best way to organise rail transport or rail links, but it must be strengthened. The reason why ARA may have been spending less money lately is no secret. The interest is zero. Interest rates are so low that it is not so much required to support interest subsidies. But if you count the current interest rate subsidies and consider that interest rates will rise to 4 %, which is not quite the wind-stamped scenario — many economists say that it could be the highest level in which they settle — then in this case the government interest rate subsidies will increase tenfold. This is the wrong cashier to empty for the new company. Last spring, our Audit Committee produced a very commendable report on the subject of housing policy development. It was unanimous in committee, and it was unanimous in this Chamber. I really hope that, regardless of this, the government will act against its own voting behaviour, we will stick to the ten statements which it unanimously adopted. It is there that we will have the means to mobilise housing production, it is there that we will have more affordable rental housing, because that is precisely the main problem in the capital region. This is already an obstacle to employment when low-paid people cannot afford to live here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u128	Madam President! Rightly, attention was paid here to what this housing production in Helsinki and other growth centres has become bogged down in. In practice it is that municipalities with zoning rights want to control the volume of housing production and population growth through the number of dwellings. This is because municipalities are obliged to take care of so-called subjective rights, in practice schools and day-care centres and such. As a result, municipalities generally optimize population growth between 1 % and 2 %. Now this railway project will then be able to plan more widely than the appropriate country, and this imbalance in the market will thus improve for the benefit of the buyer and the lessee. In my opinion, this is a good solution and relates to this issue. This was stated several times in the audit committee mentioned here. The second issue that has been raised here is the question of treatment: I personally have some experience for my brother over a long period of time and for my parents over several decades. As far as my parents are concerned, it is interesting that in the same locality a private international company has taken care of my father and, correspondingly, a municipal mother of my own. I had to watch this every day and every week and also through the municipality’s trust missions. The general observation I got from these is that the local person who leads the activity is absolutely crucial and when he changes things go in a good or bad direction, depending on his ability and willingness to develop or fail to develop the service. As far as these people are concerned over the years, when you ask what is good or bad here, the treatment plan that the doctor, together with the staff, is doing for each patient is a crucial starting point for what the customer needs and what is being sought to do with the services, whether they are going to the store, making bed, washing up, going to the sauna or whatever. That management plan is everything a and o. In this regard, I was in such a tight position with an international company, which has been mentioned many times here, that I said that this quality does not correspond to what I and my father, together, are paying for this community. In this context, I regret to say that the responsible person in the municipality did not dare to address these shortcomings, which led to an increasing number of them, so that after all, I was already in a position to set up my own home for my father. You didn't have to do it because, unfortunately, Dad left this world. I even called in a quality manager from this community, and he was well aware of his own authority, but I said that I have quite a few ISO 9000 systems in various companies that have gone through and found them good, and I suggested to him that you now make a quality system and start monitoring it. He felt that we had so-called self-monitoring and that we did not need external control in this area. Indeed, the law says that there is self-monitoring, but my own firm view is that the quality system should be a buyer's requirement and that the buyer should also have the opportunity to consider that the quality system is being respected, and that there should also be a way of addressing the deviations by taking out the care services that have not been carried out in practice. Of course, being a carer is essential in relation to the customer base and their current situation, which is likely to be, as a rule, always deteriorating individually over a long period of time, but 0.7 in practice means quite an additional resource, and if it is not properly targeted, it will not do much good. But it is certainly not quick to get it on the market, because this deficiency may be from 5,000 plus minus 1000 nurses there or here, and it will take time to train them. These people who are in nursing positions can't be just anyone. They must have a certain basic education, which means that even foreign people are not always suited to this situation, especially because of their language skills. In my opinion, the demand for quality systems is all a and o. In practice, it can be carried out by means of a diary in the room of each person being treated, indicating what the patient in question needs, when and by whom it is to be carried out, and, in the case of the person implementing it, the date, time and person implementing it. In this way, too, it will be possible to check afterwards that the proper treatment has been completed, and it will also be possible to consider that the money they have been paying for has gone in the right way for the purpose for which it is intended.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u129	Mr President, värderade talman! There has been a good debate on employment. Indeed, we have now reached almost 73%, which is a great thing. In parts of the country, in the sub-regions, we are in 75, and the target is indeed 80%, probably at least 75, in the next parliamentary term. But I asked for the floor because I would have liked to thank again Ministers Berner, Orpo and Lintila for their good work and cooperation. This is the last $5 million for that Kvarken connection project. It is a great thing for the whole of Finland's marine and energy technology, and for industry it will be a window of sight. Så ett varmt jack för ministrarna till den delen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u130	Mr President! Three good points should be raised on this government's amending budget: Firstly, it is good that more resources are available for monitoring social and health care and early childhood education. Similarly, investments in internal security, particularly in these sexual crimes, are appropriate. It must of course be acknowledged that in both cases these efforts will only get us off to a good start, because, for example, we need a bigger programme to deal with the problems of care for the elderly, which, for reasons of timetable, will probably be left to the new government, which will start after the elections. Mr President! In fact, the main purpose of this speech was to highlight the significant news in this amending budget for Finnish top sport. This is an Olympic fund planned in connection with the Finnish Olympic Committee, which is proposed to transfer the State's share capital up to a value of EUR 20 million, provided that the corresponding private funding has been made available prior to the transfer. When implemented, the Fund will be a welcome addition to support those in different stages of the athlete's path, and the initial plans indicate that the Fund's return could be used, for example, for the development of daily training environments and for the improvement of the socio-economic status of athletes. This would make the career of a professional athlete even more attractive, especially for many sportsmen of smaller species. It would also make it possible to make better use of private funding for the benefit of Finnish top-level sport. With the fund, the back way to support Finland’s top sport would be narrowed. In 2016, when Norway spent around EUR 19 million or EUR 3.64 per capita on top sports, the corresponding amounts for Finland were EUR 11.6 million and EUR 2.11 per capita. It is therefore appropriate to thank the government for this good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u131	Mr President! This is a good place to go. I would also like to thank you again for this decision, which makes it possible to set up the Olympic Fund, in the context of the amending budget. However, no state capital will be transferred to the Olympic Fund until counterpart money has been raised from the private sector. It is therefore also a good incentive to speed up this involvement of private funding in top-level sport, since we are lagging behind our competitors on that side in particular. The purpose of the Olympic Fund is specifically to enable longer-term support for top-level sport, especially in the context of young rising top-level athletes, by enabling training and other types of sports career that are usually not available to athletes themselves and, of course, by providing direct support to athletes. I would also like to make a specific point about improving control resources, not only for the care of the elderly, which has been mentioned a great deal, but also for early childhood education. I concluded my previous speech by saying that, in the context of the reform of the early childhood education law, in the Committee on Education and Rural Development, it was actually possible for regional government agencies to carry out indeterminate checks themselves or self-audits based on no complaints, i.e. on early childhood education. I hope that now, with these increased resources, there will be more and more opportunities for this. It cannot be that we are constantly using the temporary deviation allowed by the law to have too large groups in early childhood education, and even the breeders who try to do their best there will be exhausted when there are no replacements or are not allowed to do their best. This is another issue which, fortunately, has already been addressed by the government in its previous decisions, namely the increase in the number of training courses for early childhood education teachers, who have been named kindergarten teachers. And that work must continue to ensure that this skilled workforce continues to be available. One last point I would like to make at the end: There has actually been a dispute here about whether this capitalisation of the Finnish Railway has been done in the right way. Everyone seems to be in agreement that promoting this is a good thing. I would also like to point out that the Audit Committee, on which much has been said, has commissioned an expert report stating, among other things, that ‘ARA assets will guide the development of urban structures and infrastructure to promote housing. “ That's what this is all about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u132	The time for this is running out. I will give the floor to Mr Juvonen, and then we will move on to other matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u133	Thank you, Madam President. It is a very good thing that internal security and the supervisory tasks of the elderly and the disabled receive more resources. That is certainly not a denial. But it is good to remind you that this is first aid, not a final solution. Mr Lehti, you have just spoken on very important matters. You mentioned quality control and monitoring. I have taken a policy initiative to set up a special audit unit in Finland that would focus on the important task of power and where the auditors would be really professional and know how to do it — not that the guy audited the guy, but really external auditors in these units. In this way we will also be able to find out what quality is all in all and comprehensively in Finland. You also mentioned the role of supervisor. Article 21 of the Old Age Act states that the operating unit — and we are talking about the care of the elderly — must be a director responsible for ensuring that certain good principles are respected in customer work and that the services meet the other requirements imposed on them. So the law says you have to pay attention to leadership, supervisory work. That foreman job is really everything a and o and the key to the care of the elderly — that someone will notice, someone will watch, someone will guard. But what if there are no hands to care for them? In the previous speech, I raised what I personally feel is the cause of the collapse of care for the elderly in Finland. I feel that the weakening of quality recommendations from the 2008 quality recommendation — with a good staffing size ranging from 0.7 to 0.8, which was weakened and dropped to 0.5 — is the reason, because 0.5 is such a minimal maintenance measure that it is only necessary. I know that when I've worked there myself. I would also appeal to the fact that the quality recommendation at the time was an extremely valuable piece of paper and also had weight in the field of work when, as a shop steward, he went on to negotiate additional staff and resources for the workplace. Although it was informative guidance and recommendation, it was still followed, but now it seems that we need tougher records, and that is the law. We've got to get the nurse's medal in there so we can get things sorted out. Well, what else is there to develop in the care sector? It is not only the fact that we have a record in the law there that will help on our own. Working conditions in all ways, the well-being of the staff and the attractiveness of the sector must be improved so that the nurses want to work in the field so that they want to come back and work where they have gone. And yes, as one of the extremely important factors I see in terms of pay, but also in terms of education policy: that we are training more nurses, that we are also giving nurses the opportunity to move forward in their own careers, that they are able to further train themselves higher, that they are valued for old and wise knowledge and that they are also helping in the work community by enabling study leave and thus giving them the conditions for action. I see the matter of hospice as a very worrying issue. There's been a lot of messages. It is also recorded in the Act on the Elderly that, in a given situation, the number of staff needs to be increased. Our old-age law makes that possible, but unfortunately it will not happen. I think it is extremely important that we have a special law on hospice care. I have made a bill on it, written a paragraph with its day, and I would hope that the next term Parliament will take the matter forward. Every person must have a subjective right to hospice care, and as long as it is not determined by law, that matter will not be in good hands in Finland. I wonder how such an important issue can still be, in a way, a line drawn in the air. We have a huge number of domestic care units in Finland, and as long as we talk about domestic care units, they do not necessarily have the capacity to organise, for example, demanding hospice care: lack of care supplies, lack of medicines, lack of a drug provider or trained staff — and this is such an equation that usually only when you have to go through it yourself. But I would like to thank the government for giving us first aid, but that is not the final solution, so we need strong, tough measures. And in order to eradicate sexual crime, I have also made two legislative initiatives, and I welcome the fact that resources are being allocated to the city of Oulu, which is currently in need.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u134	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u135	Madam President! Last week there was a general debate on the first reading. I stated then that there are a number of good points and a few critical points in this bill, and those critical points relate to the fact that, when the legal protection from asylum seekers has been undermined in 2016, the time limits for appeals have been reduced and legal aid has been weakened, so that the problems — many of them, which are currently stretching the processing times and producing re-applications — are caused by these reasons. For this reason, we have objected to number 1, and we make a statement in it, which reads as follows: ‘The Commission requires the Board of Directors to consider a proposal to repeal the limits laid down by the Act646/2016 on the right of asylum and to reduce the time-limits forappealing decisions on international protection. These changes have not had a positive impact on the duration of the asylum process, but may jeopardise the legal protection of the applicant and may also increase the number of re-applications.’;
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u136	Madam President! However, this government proposal contains so many of these different things, as Mr Paatero said in that, for example, that, as a precautionary measure, I am in favour of Mr Paatero's proposal anyway, but we have approached this issue in such a way that this situation is so serious with regard to these weakenings that we propose that the entire bill be rejected. I propose that the entire bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u137	Mr President! This proposal is quite problematic. It was not supported by expert opinions in these problematic areas either. It is more populism than reality, and that is why I support Matti Semi's rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u138	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u139	Mr President! The draft law on the stock savings account is indeed now at second reading. At first reading, we had a wide-ranging debate on the law, its necessity and the problems involved. The report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy contains an objection on the basis of what we have already talked about. The content of its objection is therefore that this Parliament should decide that this bill should be rejected. I would like to repeat this once again as a statement by the signatories to our protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u140	Mr President! Indeed, at first reading, there was a long and thorough debate on the stock savings account, in which I myself also set out the grounds for rejecting the law on the stock savings account. I therefore support Mr Ihalainen's proposal to reject the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u141	Madam President! I was going to write a story up there on the computer, but I noticed that this conversation was all over and I still got there. The fact is that I am somewhat surprised at the opposition's position on this issue. The problem for us Finnish companies, and specifically small enterprises with jobs, is the lack of capital. That's the real problem. Today's entrepreneur, when he goes to try, runs into that same wall: he does not get the capital to develop his business. I'm supposed to buy machines, equipment and invest, but getting money is under the rock. And now, as Sweden has done wisely — there is not nearly as much capital deficit as we have. So here is this great wisdom that we need to develop these systems, that capital stays in Finland and benefit Finnish society. Or do you see it as the best option for us to suddenly leave Finland with capital running away and going to such a place that it may never benefit Finnish society? Of course, I understand your duubio and your horrors — they could actually be put into practice in some theoretical way — but the big thing here is that, in terms of the job creation of companies, it is the most important thing to invest in this country. If companies do not invest, there will be no jobs. Everyone knows that a company that invests 10 million in the development of its own business can easily create dozens of jobs at the construction stage. For example, a technical coal plant in Ilomants: an investment of between EUR 25 million and EUR 30 million, a hundred jobs in the construction phase over a year and then 50 jobs continuously. The same company has acquired capital on the market and through various arrangements. I would like to see an understanding of the situation of a small company in this country and of who is employed in this country. It's not a public power. It's a small business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u143	Madam President! I now have to say a few words to Mr Hoskonen on this stock savings account. Many of the things Mr Hoskonen raised are true, but as far as this stock savings account is concerned, I am not quite sure whether Mr Hoskonen knew what the proposal was about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u148	Mr President! The motion for rejection is extremely justified in this share savings account. A number of arguments have been put forward in this Chamber as to why this stock savings account, despite all its good intentions, is a completely wrong tool and a failed government proposal, so I am trying here to bring some new point of view to the matter, precisely through how useful, important and necessary such an instrument for an excess is. The sad fact is that we have never dealt with or legislated on so-called insurance cover, investment insurance and capitalisation agreements, the latter of which are also some of the participants in this Chamber. Over the years, they have emerged from insurance-based products step by step in such a way that we are already in a situation where no one is insured but are treated as insurance. It would therefore have been absolutely necessary for investment insurance and capitalisation contracts to have been subject to legislation at all and then only to discuss whether it would be extended to an instrument such as the equity savings account, which then has its own limitations. Why? Because, for example, on the tax side, this legislation has now been surrounded by the treatment of these investment insurance policies and large investments without ever having been subject to the actual legislation. Then we will be in a situation where we are estimated to have an investment of EUR 40 billion in these instruments. And it can be asked how useful, how important, how affordable they are for Finland, whether they want such products even to exist, because they are associated with such exceptional tax benefits. They have an exceptional deferral advantage that can be used in tax planning for the most wealthy people, even in aggressive tax planning. And it has never been a conscious decision that such instruments should first of all exist, or the way in which they are regulated. We are still not doing this, but without this legislation, we will be faced with a situation where the practice will be extended. — I come to the toilet to finish my speech. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Some efforts have now been made in the context of this legislation to address also the clear shortcomings that lead to a tax leak from Finland abroad. The Tax Administration has pointed out that it is precisely because of these insurance portfolios that hundreds of millions of euros of tax revenue belonging to Finland will be lost. There are perhaps two or three key procedures here. One is that in inheritance situations it is extremely advantageous to pass on these insurance portfolios and, as will be the case in the future, equity savings accounts to the heirs under favourable conditions. The second point is that there is nothing to limit the possibility that these products can be incomed abroad in countries which may be subject to low taxation or non-existent taxation, both large insurance envelopes and smaller equity savings accounts. And thirdly, it has so far been possible to invest a lot of other assets, even real estate, so that they go beyond the reach of the Finnish tax authority. The measures that would now be needed to combat these insurance portfolios will not be easy to deal with in relation to the equity savings account. For example, an increase in value tax — the so-called exit tax, which has been proposed to prevent the tax evasion of these insurance portfolios — is most often proposed as a threshold of EUR 1 million. Now they cannot be applied to this stock savings account because it is a completely different product.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u149	Mr President! I have often said that in my opinion the word “national capitalism ” is positive. In principle, I do not like the word ‘capitalism’,but when you write the word ‘people’,I like And that is why, in principle, it is positive that we are wondering how, then, the slightly smaller person, if you could say so, could also do better than this. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, it has to be said that there have been very well-founded speeches here that this particular form that is being offered does not really help the normal person, the low- and medium-income person, but that the attractiveness of this equity savings account is linked to the fact that tax payments can be deferred and avoided and that tax can be paid at a minimum later date. And, as has just been said, the fact that almost 60 million people are losing tax revenue in this case is a very large sum of money these days when we are talking about how, in the circumstances of a kind of shrinking economic growth, we can, however, make the necessary improvements, such as the care of the elderly and disabled people in Finland, how we can ensure that in early childhood education the size of the group is adequate, or how we can act in such a way that the cutter does not always hit the purse of the lowest-income person. When we talk about these and think about what has been done here and what the future economy looks like, it is not very justified that we should go in a certain way to give tax benefits to this type of activity. I am not at all convinced that this will increase the possibilities or desires for the placement of so-called ordinary people. First of all, many people do not have the money for it, and if so, the attractiveness of this form is not necessarily the first, but rather it has been estimated that this could be introduced when you want to explicitly avoid taxes and, of course, it is never a very sustainable equation. And we have also often mentioned this situation in Sweden, where there is an even more rewarding ISK account, and yet it has not been the case that it has increased the number of these equity investments, but, on the contrary, this particular possibility of prosperity has been concentrated on those who are there anyway. We have an extremely small group in Finland that might actually benefit from this, and I therefore think it is quite justified to reconsider this issue at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u150	Mr President! I would like to emphasise, in fact, the points behind the proposal to reject which others have said in a wise and expert way. There is a problem here that the losses and benefits are not balanced, and the basic problem is that the tax base is being slashed, the tax base is being scrapped, precisely because dividends and sales gains on the equity savings account are not being taxed. According to the government's proposal, that estimate is about 100 million, and as a whole, when the account holder is from abroad, tax treatment also leads to the loss of 56 million, or 156 million, as compared to what these benefits are. And Sweden's experiences suggest little that the number of investors has not necessarily increased. What we base our views on is the assessment of the two working groups of civil servants in the Ministry of Finance. One would like to say that the provisions on the exemption of small dividends would have no obvious and immediate meaning in terms of domestic economic growth — equal to employment — economic activity and investment activity of Finnish households, and relief would also have no significant impact on improving access to finance for domestic companies. On these grounds, we felt that this proposal was not worthy of support, and that is why we are proposing to reject it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u151	Madam President! Here I quickly looked online at data on Finnish deposit behaviour. Currently, some EUR 80 billion rests on various savings and operating accounts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u154	Mr President! It comes to mind in this debate that it is sometimes thought that an attack is the best defense. But let's stick to this, in fact. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude] Mr President! After all, this equity savings account is not just about the possibility of postponing taxation, because in inheritance situations, in the case of foreign investors, and if the account holder moves abroad, it is about real tax losses. According to the Ministry’s estimate, it is about 160 million, and it is not a small amount of money. It is out of other things, out of services if it is not recovered in favour of dynamic effects, and it is therefore appropriate to assess whether it can be recovered with dynamic effects. At least the Swedish example — a much more generous equity savings account — does not in any way support the estimate that 160 million will be recovered through dynamic effects. This leads to the conclusion that tax losses and benefits are not balanced in this bill, so there is no reason to promote the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u157	Madam President! Mr Hokkonen, I tried to write down some of those thoughts you brought, and this next speech is dedicated to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u160	Mr President! Now that this proposal is at second reading, it has come from the first reading that the Green Left, which is opposed to this proposal, has some concrete examples of what might be wrong with this government proposal. In principle, of course, it is desirable that Finnish share ownership should increase from 4 % so that more stock shares would be held. It should continue to be noted that this 160 million potential tax losses is a speculative calculation based on the fact that this share savings account is now subject to a certain amount of use, i.e. that it would be of interest to the extent expected. This has not always been the case, and these speculations have not always been the case, as I said before, for example, with regard to the relaxation of the car tax. But what is tax evasion is a tax transfer, even if certain examples have been given of the possibility that the tax might not be paid in some circumstances. And why should savings in shares be worse than saving in an investment fund? In other words, when the investment fund is able to raise capital duty-free, the shares can be transferred to another share tax-free without having to pay a profit tax in the meantime, why are investment funds better investment instruments in this respect? Why not also give small investors the opportunity to do so through equity investments? And, above all, if this proposal now has the problems of these foreign investments and the like: Why, then, have there not been any clauses or amendments of any kind developed to this effect for the first reading, but simply to reject this motion? Is it about laziness or incompetence?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u162	Mr President! It is important to note that the equity savings account does not exempt the payment of taxes but simply transfers the implementation of taxation to the withdrawal of assets. The government always gets itss in the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u165	Mr President! First of all, let us start with the fact that what is the problem with the EUR 80 billion in bank accounts? It is not restful money, it is money spent by banks. It is a loan guarantee used by banks. But it is true that its interest rate is quite low for the ordinary saver. Well, then, you have to ask, just like this on a micro level: if the bank account has a zero interest rate and everyone knows that investing in shares in the medium term receives a yield of several per cent, as well as in funds, then why on earth do Finns not make these investments? Besides, it's easy. The argument on behalf of the equity savings account that it would make investment easier in some way is completely distorted because investment in funds is extremely easy and even the establishment of a book-entry account is easy. Why do Finnish rational consumers not act intelligently and take better returns? Because you don't have that money or you don't dare take that risk. If we, a typical Finnish, have a bank account of EUR 5000, it is certainly not possible for us to go into extensive investment. Of course, this basic premise that we should have more income for Finns to invest in means that the best measure to promote national capitalism is to reduce the earnings tax on small and medium-income Finns to both employees and pensioners. What particularly saddens a member of the tax section of the Committee on Finance here is that these products — capitalisation agreements, investment insurance, and possibly future equity savings accounts — are sold precisely on the basis that the tax bear is left to lick, precisely with the tax benefit that is being achieved here. And, of course, the banking and financial sector will be happy to take that distinction for themselves. It will then be necessary to remind those representatives who optimistically think that sometimes those taxes are paid, that these same financial experts and an army of direct experts have been harnessed to tell — for the time being, only the wealthy but perhaps also the less wealthy Finns — how, in inheritance and other special situations, to avoid paying the tax entirely, and that this is truly an estimate made by the Ministry of Finance, with official responsibility, that this tax loss will amount to EUR 100 million for domestic purposes and approximately EUR 60 million for foreign purposes. [The President repudiates—] The speaker moves to the podium] I will continue briefly with the toilet because these facts must necessarily be recorded in the Minutes. — In other words, an estimate has been made of the tax loss abroad. It was then considered whether there is now an opposition laziness in the absence of any changes to the articles. On the contrary, the government should be responsible for assessing how EU law relates to whether foreign investors have full rights to invest in these Finnish instruments. We have discussed the issue of notification around social law from morning to night and from night to morning, and we have discussed what legal certainty should be about how EU law relates to them. Now, with regard to this law, the government has made no account of how this goes under EU law: whether foreigners have the right to invest in these Finnish products under the same conditions and thus in practice avoid taxes. This in itself is quite irresponsible. The bill simply states that the starting point is that this does not apply to foreigners. It has not been verified in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u166	Mr President! It is good that Mrs Harakka has spoken and that this very wise line of reasoning, with which we have come to this conclusion, will then remain in the Minutes. When Mr Vikman said earlier that the State always gets its tax back, it is not so explicitly, but, on the contrary, an estimate has been made that it is precisely through this possibility of postponement that tax losses, according to the Ministry of Finance's own proposal, will be estimated at 160 million, almost because this model is, however, such that the payment of the tax can be avoided, for example, by transferring profits abroad or, for example, in domestic inheritance situations. So this is what this is all about. The second point that I wanted to say is that when it is said here that companies will now receive funding, the last time we consider this issue in the first reading, it has become very clear that, yes, but which companies. The small company that could then possibly obtain capital from this must be on the stock market. It is not just any small company that is a stockbroker, it is not of any benefit to them, but perhaps it is the companies that are there on the stock market. And now that we are talking about these ‘left’ and ‘right’ terms,however,is it directly said that at least the social democratinhabitatesthe root,that seeing that the Finnish right-wing assembly is only a party that does not want And I'm telling you, the civilised state must have money for this. And in the future, in the years to come, the economic figures are not predicting very well, and I do not want to see the situation that is being said that we therefore again have no opportunity and time to reserve our almanacs for these elderly and children who need good care, because the most well-off ones in themselves went first on this coffers. That is not the way it should be, Mr President. I think it was quite a good observation that Mr Haraka spoke of this folk capitalism, because very many people on small and medium income today do not even raise much of that money or savings. So surely a good way of using that tax would be, at least, as the Social Democrats have suggested, that the taxation of low- and middle-income employees, of low- and medium-income pensioners and of the unemployed would be lighter than what the government is proposing, a normal income tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u167	Madam President! Congressman Vikman asked why this place in the hall is not enthusiastic about this stock savings account. We all agree on these objectives, as many have already pointed out. And direct answers to Mr Vikman's questions: How do you see this conversion problem in the context of inheritance and gift taxation, precisely if I, through this equity savings account, can avoid the taxation of dividends and proceeds from sales and so on? And then again, this transfer of the account holder to foreign hands, on the one hand, those costs in relation to these benefits, EUR 160 million in relation to these benefits, on the other hand, the development of the tax system, the counter-flow of bathing and the increase in this deficit in general — perhaps at this stage, when these arguments are put on the list here, are, Mr Vikman, against your arguments, and I would be happy to hear how you justify your views. Since there have been long lists of different arguments, I would like to see something more against it than just talking about who sits on any side of the hall here and there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u168	Mr President! In this debate, there are very different views on taxation. While the Coalition Party believes that it is worthwhile encouraging people to work hard, by lowering the taxation of work, enterprise and also as part of it encouraging people, Finns, to actively save and invest, this account also facilitates opportunities for Finnish companies to raise capital for expansion and new investments. Taxation will always have indirect effects. It is worth striving for incentives, it is worth trying to create opportunities for ordinary, hard-working, middle-income Finns to improve their own financial position and well-being. That's what this is all about. This one on the other side of the hall and the left seem to believe that welfare increases by putting tax on it. Let us forget all about the fact that no nation has yet succeeded in taxing citizens' activity to death. In other words, work is encouraged, entrepreneurship is encouraged and ordinary Finns are encouraged to save and invest in the share savings account. It improves well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u169	Mr President! After all, the members of the government parties, the Economic Committee and the Committee on Finance here are shining by their absence, and it is this that this debate itself, rather than talking about different political ideas, is unfortunately one-sided in this way. Thus, tax avoidance is not the direction in which all Finns should be encouraged. There are alternatives. If we think that we have EUR 160 million at our disposal, which is the estimated tax loss from this stock account, what would it be wise to spend it on? Would 160 million be a good solution to the income tax rebate for low- and middle-income employees or would it not be? Would this increase the standard of living and opportunities of ordinary Finns for their own economic future? It is quite clear that the EUR 160 million that will be lost here, and 60 million of them permanently abroad, is out of the way for us to reduce the tax burden on labour. And I must say that these choices, which relate both to income lost through the equity savings account and income lost through, for example, the abolition of inheritance tax and gift tax, are all truly highly unequal, one-sided distribution of property and ownership, in which small and medium-income Finns lose out. Now, if we are talking about who really wants to lower taxation on investment, for example, a fraction of the cost of this harmful equity savings account, we can directly reduce the dividend tax on small investors, for example. Why not: reduce it directly from 25,5 % to 20 %. Then we will not break the tax base or build new bullies or employ tax planning professionals or encourage people to move abroad or make vague inheritance plans, but here and now we will make the stock investment more profitable. This is all right with us, because it means that we are only lowering the level of taxation. It suits us, but the fact that every time we have to do this kind of strange tax inflate and reduce the tax base, make holes in it and further complicate the system and employ tax consultants is completely irresponsible and inappropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u170	Mr President! I find it rather exciting that in this particular terminology, which is often heard from the assembly, it is always the fact that, if there is a little more money, they are encouraged to be given more tax breaks, and when there are low-income, unemployed, students, low-income pensioners, they are encouraged to cut off some benefits. And now that we have put this 160 million in measure, which we will be missing in the future, if this goes, I was wondering how much it cost when the people wanted to cut student financial aid by a third. At this price, that too could have been avoided. But the last time we discussed this issue, at first reading, we also pointed out that we are talking about approximately the same categories of millions, so that this money can already take care of this care of the elderly. And this debate simply reflects the fact that we have to make value choices here. And I remember the last time I dug up this excellent paper, this has actually been in electronic form, but I admit that I printed this out now because I was so interested in the time when a downtown economic expert, Mr Ala-Nissila, a respected member of the Finance Committee, has referred again to the tax pledges of the Coalition Party: ‘The Federal Finance Minister’s party has promised to abolish the transfer tax, the inheritance tax and the gift tax, the car tax and the hilarious income tax reductions, together 5 billion? Pension improvements are criticised, but tax populism has no limit’,says the Government Party,the Prime Minister’s PartyOlaviAla-Nissila,and here I am with him in the country. If we are talking about responsible financial management, responsibility and encouragement — note, encouragement — then I do not understand how the tax promises of the Coalition Party, such as the abolition of the tax on transfers of funds or other things that cost a great deal, add anything from the so-called encouraging point of view. So I would now be interested to know what the convention tax programme is and how we are going to finance these good deeds as well when, in fact, there is no desire to put money into it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u171	Madam President! Taxation is not a zero-sum game, as Mr Viitanen said in this previous speech. Taxation is not a zero-sum game, which is simply about raising funds for the State. Taxes will always have indirect effects on the behaviour of citizens. This too must be taken into account when we talk about the tax package. And when this is taken into account, there are still no credible arguments here to support the opposition to a stock savings account, which specifically improves the position of ordinary Finnish retail investors and facilitates access to finance for domestic companies. And if what contributes to well-being and creates good for Finland as a whole, it is also through indirect effects, because taxation is not a zero-sum game, where funding for the state would be collected indefinitely, and simply by raising taxes, the tax revenue will not increase indefinitely, as the demos seem to think.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u172	Mr President! However, the impact that even the Ministry of Finance estimates this proposal will have is that the State will lose nearly 160 million tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u175	Mr President! Let's go over this one more time. In other words, when we take measures to improve the position of ordinary Finns and improve access to finance for companies, this means, for example, that companies are better placed to employ. It is today that we have received very good news about how the government has managed to improve employment in Finland. The more Finns work, the better we will be able to break the state debt and take care of important services and care for the elderly, to which you referred.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u178	Mr President! We can talk about images. We can talk about numbers. Both the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Finance dealt with this stock savings account in two different government proposals and there are numbers. There are numbers that about EUR 160 million a year is a tax loss when this has been in operation for some years. You can play the competing numbers. You therefore believe that the loss of 160 million will not happen, but that the government will receive income. How much does the government get? Ten million, 100 million, billion? Why is this a good project? All of this only because you give us your readings, which the Ministry of Finance apparently has not been able to do, so that we can have a factual and factually informed debate on the advantages and less advantageous aspects of this proposal. Otherwise, we can end the debate here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u179	Mr President! Very briefly, I will just say this. I agree with Mr Vikman that action must be taken. That is exactly what needs to be done, for example, what has already been mentioned in this debate: a reduction in the taxation of low and middle income incomes would be a step that could be taken. We could also reduce the taxation of dividends, which is also a measure. These are measures that could help move towards the objective you have described, but in this debate, all substance-saving accounting tools have remained completely open. You could use arguments about it rather than describe party colors here. One side tries to have a substance conversation and the other one tries to have an image conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u180	Mr President! That, of course, adds that, in order not to have image debates but to have a substance debate and to open up differences of thought between parties, for example, on the fight against inequality or even on the tax issue, I would be happy to see the assembly's official tax programme and figures behind it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u183	Mr President! Briefly. We have been discussing this issue for a long time. After all, a stock savings account is the best idea, and the idea that we encourage people to invest and promote small investments in Finland is a good goal. And when this is linked to the economic education of schools, for example, it is possible for us to get a whole new kick in investing in Finns. Unfortunately, however, it seems that this proposed model of equity savings accounts does not meet these expectations but, on the contrary, leads us to new challenges and questions. In this situation, when we think that the last message that has come out today is that not all parties are in favour of free secondary education, for example, but yet we can afford to take the risk of EUR 100 million leaving the state economy because of such a beautiful idea in itself, but ultimately a rather inefficient model, we have to make those choices of value. In my view, the value choice then is that such a stock savings account should be returned to the preparation and that it should be applied for a model that actually corresponds to the purpose that most people in this Chamber certainly want to achieve. I would like to continue by saying that it is worth looking at people's economic competence and economic activity more broadly than just focusing on the group that is able to invest — to assume that in the future more and more people will have the opportunity to test how the market economy can also be used without risk. These are good ideas, but, as has been said, unfortunately, the stock savings account in the form now presented should not fulfil these wishes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u184	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u185	Mr President! We are in favour of adopting the proposal in accordance with the arguments put forward by the committee. At the same time, however, it is also necessary — partly in relation to the subject of the recent debate — that the taxation of investment funds has not been dealt with very much in the tax legislation. In fact, this is a matter of principle, in which tax treatment is first specified. The tax treatment of foreign investment funds has not previously been provided for in the Income Tax Act or the Income Tax Act at all. It is therefore important to address the way foreign investment funds affect the Finnish tax base, as well as foreign pension investors. They also own more than half of the shares on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. In its final report last year, the Ministry of Finance’s working group on the tax treatment of different types of investment found that ‘the dividend resource tax base has been reduced significantly in recent years and the right to taxation in Finland has also decreased in Finland’s real It would therefore be worth considering the proposal made by the Social Democrats a long time ago in the tax programme, which we published last spring and which, for example, has not yet been answered by the government parties. So we are waiting with interest to see when the coalition will publish its own tax programme. Will it happen before April 14th? In this context, we propose that the government should prepare a proposal to strengthen the tax base by introducing a reasonable withholding tax on dividends received by foreign funds from Finland and on real estate income. It would be justified to extend it not only to funds but also to other entities exempt from dividend taxes — including domestic ones, for the sake of equity. In addition, Finland should ensure that withholding taxes are levied on interest and other deductible capital income in Finland when they are paid to a country where the recipient of income is taxed only lightly and Finland does not have a tax agreement with that country. We therefore propose that three statements be adopted, which are worded as follows: 1. ‘The Commission requires the Government to prepare a proposal to reduce the tax base by 2. ‘The Commission requires the Government to prepare a proposal to reduce the tax base by 3. ‘The Commission requires the Government to prepare a proposal to tighten up the tax base
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u186	Madam President! I support Mr Haraka's excellent contributions. I think that they should be included and taken very seriously, because we have now had a number of contacts here, last in connection with the previous paragraph, to discuss where we can obtain more tax revenue in the future. Then, if it were ever worth considering this kind of expansion of the tax base, so that we could also, for example, tax large-scale foreign investments in such a way that a reasonable 5% withholding tax would be imposed. And, as has been said here, according to calculations, this could, for example, receive some 400 million already, which is, of course, a large amount of money in this situation, when we do not have too much of that money here and there are many challenges, such as the fact that we can take good care of our elderly people and that we would not have to keep making cuts in the benefits of low-income people, which this government has done. And that is why I am actually quite proud that the SDP is the first party to present this withholding tax, although so far the only one. But I think that when you get to know it a little bit, a lot of people might, and that is why I hope you will get to know it. I therefore warmly support Mr Haraka's proposals for statements with these words.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u187	Mr President! Just as a short supplement to what was just said: It is important to remember two main principles of taxation, the first of which was addressed in the debate just now. That's tight bottoms, low heels. For example, it is the most important message of the Hetemäe Group, which was the foundation of dividend taxation in 2010, which takes time. Tight bottoms, low heels. But it is equally important that when it is undeniable that taxation adversely affects economic activity, then the principle must be that tax revenue is collected where it least harms economic activity and then invested where it is most beneficial for growth and employment. This second important principle, unfortunately, has not been characterised by the tax policy of this government, but by tax reductions which have been made indiscriminately to one's own interest groups, regardless of the fact that even the government's own proposals have not reported that they have any positive impact on employment or growth. And it is precisely when you think about where to get tax revenue in the future without hampering real business, preventing aggressive tax planning is the best way to get that extra income. And if we could at least tax moderately, like Aalto University's associate professor Tomi Viitala has proposed, at the present time with a 5% withholding tax, zero-taxed dividends would indeed be available on the basis of this record year's dividend data, up to EUR 400 million for the costs of the Finnish welfare state, to cover public services. Then we can be sure that we will not be hindering business, but actually promoting healthy competition, because the fact is what I have tried to do for Finnish industry, at the most by mediocre success, to prove that, by definition, only multinational groups are capable of aggressive tax planning. This cannot be achieved by Finnish domestic companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, every time we get a stronger tax base on tax planning, except that justice is achieved, competition will also be promoted and the position of Finnish companies in particular will be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u188	Madam President! Mr Harakka made such a good speech that we should continue a little while after we have discussed the matter together in various tax seminars. Perhaps I will return to those principles of a good tax system. In the tax system, the most important task, of course, is the fiscal objective: to raise funds in the state treasury. The second objective is to ensure that the neutrality of competition works and that everyone is treated in the same way. When you look at these various tax proposals, which have been made during this parliamentary term, they are very difficult to justify, in fact, in accordance with the basic principle of both good tax systems, and they do not follow the direction that Mr Harakka has pointed out. In other words, we should move towards a concise tax base with the lowest possible tax rates. Taxation should be able to shift its focus to consumption and harm, away from doing work and trying. But the practical problem is that if the structural deficit is increased in ways that do not increase employment or sustainable economic growth, but in practice simply and simply transfer assets from A to B, it will in no way comply with the purpose of a good tax system. Rather, it leads to the situation that Mr Viitanen has highlighted well in the past, that is to say, a situation in which government revenue, tax revenues are reduced, is faced with a situation in which we have to ask ourselves what is next to be cut back on how the most important objectives of the welfare society can be financed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u189	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to reject the legislative proposals contained in the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u190	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, So we are dealing with a citizens' initiative in relation to the active model. What was the active model, actually? As of 1 January 2018, the Unemployment Security Act was amended to reduce unemployment benefit by 4.65% for 65 days if the unemployed person has not demonstrated sufficient activity during the 65 previous days of payment, i.e. around three months’ reference period. The activity condition shall be deemed to have been fulfilled if during the period considered the person has worked for at least one calendar week in an employment-related job or earned income equivalent to business activity or participated in employment-promoting services for at least five days. The aim of the active model is to increase employment by encouraging unemployed jobseekers to become active and self-employed in job-seeking throughout the duration of unemployment. In fact, this active model is humiliating and tempting, and it is often very unpleasant and disgusting to the unemployed. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Group of the European People's Party, which I represent here as the committee's representative, supported the abolition of the active model, which is to say that we supported this citizens' initiative. That was the vote last week. Unfortunately, however, the result of the vote did not lead to what we proposed. Parliament called for a change in the active model when it agreed that the impact of the reform should be closely monitored. According to the information we have received, the experts considered that the active model has caused many problems for those within it and has also placed people in an unequal position around Finland. The number of people receiving lower unemployment benefits was highest geographically in Eastern Finland, Uusimaa and Lapland in Käsivarren. The regional distribution of unemployed job seekers and the number of unemployed people who are hard-to-work have been completely ignored and, as a result, the inequality of people has increased. Especially as sufferers in this government’s active model have been hard-to-work, long-term unemployed and older job seekers. By August 2018, one third of the recipients of the reduced earnings-related daily allowance had turned 60. According to THL’s expert opinion, the amount of basic income support has increased since the activation of the active model. We Finns believe that there are serious shortcomings in the active model. According to expert advice, unemployed jobseekers also have those who suffer from a disability or disability-lowering illness. These persons are not suitable for an active model, but would need a study of work and functional capacity and health restrictions and guidance for appropriate care, rehabilitation, work capacity analysis or other appropriate services. The committee itself stated in this report that strong criticism of the active model and this citizens' initiative reflect and demonstrate that there are shortcomings in the active model and that this model has not, in all circumstances, provided the jobseeker seeking employment and seeking access to the service with sufficient means to demonstrate activeness in order to prevent a reduction in the benefit. So last week we voted for the adoption of this citizens' initiative, but today I am presenting proposals for statements on this motion from the Finnish Parliament Group. All in all, there are eight of these statements and I will present them to you here. The first statement reads: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in the review of the active model,inparticular that the active model continues to take account of So this is because not everyone is able to work. Declaration 2: ‘The Board of Directors requires that action be taken in order to ensure that the implementation of the active model takes account of the health problems faced by persons and persons who have a disability restriction or functional capacity and that their Statement 3: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in actions to correct the regionalinequalities of And here we do remember that Uusimaa, Lapland and Eastern Finland were the areas where the most cuts were made. Declaration 4: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in its follow-up activities,how the active model affects the number of beneficiaries of income THL told us that the number of recipients of income support is increasing annually. It's about 4,000 to 5,000 pieces, which means there's huge growth. Declaration 5: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in action to promote employment services that are effective for employment and that arecarried out with a minimum That's accurate training, precision measures. Declaration 6: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in activities to report on how entrepreneurs and employers can ensure that an active We have received messages that many entrepreneurs would like to activate, but it is not possible. It needs a mentor, it needs a trainer and an instructor very often in the workplace, so one person's job is to familiarise the person in the active model. And then, Statement 7: ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in activities to report on the experience gained by the TE Offices in the implementation of an active model. “ Here too, we Members of Parliament have received messages. And then, Statement 8, if you are still able to listen: ‘The Commission requires that a wide range of alternative tools and operating tools be developed to improve the opportunities of the unemployed person to seek work and improve the conditions for accessing or returning to the labour market more efficiently,more flexible andlower costs than in - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u191	Mr President! In principle, our group has no objection to activation measures, on the contrary. We certainly support them in order to mobilise the unemployed to get back to work. Unfortunately, however, this model is not the model we would like. For example, if you consider the Danish model, where there are a lot of carrots and whips, it is a model that would certainly work better in Finland as well. In our opinion, only that whip has now been brought here, but the carrots are missing. And the biggest flaw in our opinion is perhaps that this does not involve any guidance, no rehabilitation measures, no access to any kind of training, you may be able to get a precise knowledge assessment, that there is a lack of what you should be able to do in order to find employment. In our opinion, this is the greatest deficiency. In the future, we should certainly be asking ourselves whether we should have one of our own models of this Danish model.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u192	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! The activation of the unemployed must be done with incentive measures and on an equal footing, and this is not the case in the government model. That is why I support Mr Nylander's proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u193	Madam President! The previous speeches have been good and I now have to say that I think that the statements made by the Finns are very good and are very well aware of where the problems of the active model are.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u194	Madam President! I, too, am surprised that there are no members of the governing parties who have been brought into force by this stick law. At the very beginning, I must say that the representative Mr Juvonen gave a good account of the statements made by the Finns and I support all the statements made by Mr Juvonen. Let it be said at the outset. A few words ago about our statements. When we consider that one third of these people are over 60 years old and we know how difficult it is for the older working population to find employment, then they are left with the opportunity to take some courses. After talking to these older people, they say that those courses are nonsense. These people are waiting for a pension, they don't get a job, and then they sit with the young people. They just go in there, and then the guy who's taking the class is gonna make a living when they can do something more useful. Well, then there are these people with health problems who have disabilities that reduce their ability to work. Here is the fact that if an unemployed job seeker falls ill a little bit worse, he or she will be covered by Kela’s sickness allowance. And when you have been there for a year, if you do not get an invalidity pension, you will return after that year to becoming an unemployed job seeker and the active model will cut it off again by 5%, even if you are not even able to work, but when you have not retired. A lot of people have come and said, "What can I do about this?" They have spoken to the Minister, they have talked to the ministry people about this too, and hopefully at some point this will change somehow. Then, when it is thought that many have gone there to get income support, after this has cut it again, this will now employ those Kela officials when they go from one door to the other to get the same old level of income. Then this is a good statement with which to look into how entrepreneurs and employers have experienced the functioning of this active model. Yes, if you think of a small town, there are not many entrepreneurs there. Then all those unemployed people are bombing there, every month making those job applications, even though they know they won't. This is a big burden for that employer, too, when he knows he has no job to give, but all the time it is bombed and the answer should be given. Very good eight statements, which I support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u195	Mr President! When this active model was originally discussed on 28 November last year, I said, after hearing that 54% of the unemployed probably will not meet these conditions, that the active model is a disgrace to squatting and cynical cutting into basic security and that there is no reasonableness in a model with conditions that more than half of the unemployed cannot meet. This seems to have happened. This view did not need to be withdrawn later. Who is to thank this reform? Who says this works? Now, however, the majority of Parliament does not want to change or repeal it. But now that we are in this situation that this is the case, these supported statements made by Mr Juvonen will also receive my support. There are a number of fundamental flaws that have been raised here, which is linked to this active model, which was originally mentioned and what has happened. I myself would like to raise two points on which these statements are proposed: In other words, Declaration No 3, which refers to regional inequalities. I come from a region where there is not too much work to do. It may simply be that there are no jobs there, no matter how far you look for them. This needs to be clarified as to whether there is such regional inequality, because according to the Constitution, people must be treated equally in Finland. So are people obliged to do things where they cannot actually succeed? And point 6, to find out how employers and entrepreneurs have experienced this. From the very beginning, at least, I thought, ‘ I wonder if that’s how you come to work with motivated workers. ’ If I was an entrepreneur, would I like to have a stack of job applications on the table that have been sent because they had to be sent? Will motivated workers in that way come to my company to work with their skills and skills?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u196	Madam President! The fact that this active model is being implemented shows that this is completely impossible for the long-term unemployed and for the unemployed in general when there is a shortage of jobs or where jobs do not face training and these difficulties arise. Compared with these regional differences, they are huge and jobs are not found everywhere. This is such a law, which has clearly distinguished our unemployed job seekers, and their chances of even getting temporary work are very weak. It can be seen from the results of the 5% cut in these per diems and the number of people who have lost their earnings. With these, the Government has praised that this active model is part of how to raise the employment rate. When you look at those statistics and look more closely at what has happened here, you will see the fact that, for example, it seems that the use of unpaid labour has increased considerably if you think about the number of work trials or rehabilitation activities that have increased in such eight years. In 2010, there were 5,000 work trials a month, and in 2018 more than 26,000 of these unpaid work jobs were arranged in a month. This shows that the government in every way tries to discriminate against employees by taking away the opportunity to work as an employee or by cutting unemployment security for the less well-off unemployed. Finally, I would like to say that I support Mr Modig's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u197	Madam President! Last week, when we discussed this active model, there were a few representatives of the government party in this Chamber, but now there seems to be no one here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u200	Madam President! There are still zero members of the board of directors dealing with an active model that they have created themselves and which is now receiving deserved criticism here. There are more than ten representatives of the opposition present. This, in my view, is a good reflection of the situation in this regard. The active model is based on a human image I can't sign. It is based on the fact that a person is, in principle, guilty of something and must prove his innocence by doing what the system wants, in this case by taking part in active measures. We all know what the weekday in TE services is all over the country. We all know that all the services that activate people, so to speak, do not actually add to any activity other than bureaucracy and compulsory courses. The most that will benefit from this is the consultants. It simply makes no sense. Instead of this wrong thinking based on an ugly human image, in my opinion, we should start by encouraging people and creating opportunities, rather than making clippers into a social security system that has already been cut. Instead of creating such models, in which a person has to hesitate and navigate in a support jungle in vain, we should make a model based on people’s own activity and empowerment. The best way to do this is to extend the basic income test to, for example, self-employed persons and entrepreneurs, and to take more steps towards basic safety free of charge. In addition, this active model is proven to be completely unequal in regional terms. It treats people of different ages unequally. It is unequal in many ways. It is also worth noting that the Council of Europe has already repeatedly criticised Finland's low basic security, and yet now, combined with other basic safety cuts, the government has invented a new cutter that is marketed in a completely different way, as if it were increasing people's own initiative, which it does not do. So the citizens' initiative is necessary. It is illustrated by the speed with which the citizens' initiative went through. It tells us that people are really worried about this, and we in Parliament should be serious about this. That is why I find it indignant that no one has bothered to discuss the matter with the government. I support the adoption of the citizens' initiative and the deletion of the unnecessary active model and the replacement of it with a system of basic security, towards basic income.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u201	We must now state that this base was already voted on at first reading and that it is no longer possible to vote against it. — Then let us move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u202	Mr President! It is also disappointing to me that, before long, one or two representatives of the government party appeared here last time, but now they are hardly there. In that sense, I would like to see a real debate and a debatt to be created here when these are dealt with — these are of great interest to the citizen — and we also have clear arguments in the parliamentary minutes as to why such a model, which no one seems to want, is being taken forward by the people. However, the last time, Mr President, there was Minister Lindström here, and I recalled to him how I sometimes asked why I had to bring in such a model, which violates the public's sense of justice, in which people are punished by cuts in unemployment security for actively seeking employment and not employment. Why do we have to do it with the people? At the time the minister replied to me that, well, this is just the rock in the bun that needs to be swallowed,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u205	Mr President! There has been a good debate in this Chamber on several occasions. There has been a great deal of good debate in society in general. If all of this is to be summed up in any way, I would crystallize it so that it is simply not right that people's unemployment benefit can be cut in a situation that the person himself may not even be able to influence. That is perhaps the whole point of the debate, and all the arguments actually argue that this so-called reform of the labour supply does not work. The purpose of this active model, which must be rejected, is precisely to increase the supply of work, but we can consider what is the best way to achieve that goal: is it like an active model based on consideration, punishment and threat of punishment or something else? Representative Parviainen, Olli-Son raised the question of the human image very well. What is our human image when we talk about social security reform, about basic human security? Is it linked to the human image that we trust people and strive to enable people to make reasonable choices in their everyday lives, or is it based on directing people from top to bottom through a threat from a force, a stick or a stick? This debate is also strongly linked to basic security. I am not going to go into it any further now, but I would like to say that the idea of a free basic income is precisely to free people to make reasonable choices in their own everyday lives and not to use such an active model-like coercion, threat, top-down guidance. People need a lot of support, guidance, that's obvious. But it would only be much more sensible for everyone to spend the same amount of money that is currently going to the minimum level of social security in this society more intelligently. It would be used in the way that it would enable all people in all situations to accept work. It would enable poverty traps, incentive traps to be dismantled. It would make it possible to tackle the problems of matching work in general better, and it can also be done economically neutrally if the same euro, which currently goes to the minimum level of social security, is used more wisely. This is specifically about involving people, trusting people, believing in people. The image of the Greens is based on trust. I hope that this debate will continue at a later stage when social security is reformed. Again, these active models and considerationary ideas are not used, but rather trust in man. [First Vice-President Mr Pekkarinen : Representative Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u208	This was representative Aalto. Now, Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u209	Mr President! This government's so-called active model is inefficient and inhumane. This is not activating anyone. It's the other way around. In the original model, the government said it was doing minor repairs, but even after these repairs, the model offers mainly stick for the long-term unemployed. Four key problems in this model are: Firstly, it is unfair both regionally, by sector and by age group. In other words, we know that the availability of jobs and employment-promoting services varies from region to region, so the model endangers the equality of citizens by treating the unemployed in different regions unequally, regardless of the activity of the unemployed person. In addition, the results of the active model vary widely from sector to sector. Moreover, it seems that this model cuts the benefits of the unemployed, especially the elderly. Secondly, this model is inhumane and does not in any way take into account human ability. Unemployed job seekers have a large number of people with disability-lowering illness or disability restrictions, and a significant proportion of the long-term unemployed have a need for work-enhancing care and rehabilitation. In particular, these people feel that the active model is a punishment that undermines human dignity, because rehabilitation is not the right kind of activity in the government model. It is unfair to ignore people’s ability to function and to require the same kind of activity, even if they need rehabilitation, guidance for proper care, study of working ability or other services. When asked about the experiences of the active model, people say that this model has increased feelings of worthlessness and inferiority. Some also say that feelings of anger have increased. Someone has said that they are consciously wanted to be humiliated. These experiences and these reports and feelings are very serious and should be heard. The third problem in this model is that it increases bureaucracy and yet does not provide the services that the unemployed need. Another key flaw in the model is that even active self-seeking is not always considered to be an activity that can avoid falling unemployment security. Instead of monitoring and sanctioning the unemployed' activity, efforts should be made to provide employment-promoting services and various positive incentives for the unemployed. The long-term unemployed need training, personal support, co-walking, job search services, job coaching, but not punishments. In addition, social work, health care and psychological services are often needed. And then the fourth flaw in the model is that it adds to the problems of living. Small income cuts are significant in the daily lives of the unemployed, i.e. EUR 32 per month is a major loss of small income. While it is possible to supplement income support, income support is in the wrong place if the need for this benefit is caused by legislation or a primary benefit reduction. Moreover, dealing with several authorities on the basis of an active model increases bureaucracy and further weakens incentives for employment. Again: If we want the long-term unemployed to find employment, we need to increase education, rehabilitation and other employment-promoting services tailored to the needs of individuals. In other words, this message from the citizens' initiative still needs to be taken into account: to abolish the active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u210	Mr President! The Act on Active Models has been one of the great inconceivables of this season. It is a law that only the government believed in — no expert, no unemployed, no employee of the employment office, no one except the government. Now that we have practical experience of this, all the doubts that have already been expressed here at the starting point have come true, and even more so than was thought at the time: activation without the possibility of actively employing, putting people in such a process and putting them in a vending machine, the other end of which does not show the possibility of employment. This is a penitentiary that despises people's desire to work. This is a model of anxiety and despair. It will certainly remain for many scientists to judge in the future that, once this model was first introduced, it was known what would result, why this should have been done, what has been the motive for creating such an anxiety machine for this people. It is frustrating to see that even at this stage government representatives are not here to answer our questions. This is a very sad democratic day. Of course, it is part of the responsibility that if bad proposals are made, it is understood that mistakes are being acknowledged, and I hope that this citizens' initiative will be acted upon in such a way that it has now won and this will be overturned, but perhaps it will be left to the next government to reverse this model. Mr President! Then it must be borne in mind that most unemployed people do not think that they can if I remain unemployed for a long time. Yes, the desire for work is built into a Finnish person, but such proposals tend to overturn the belief that those who make decisions are creating a framework for getting a job. I am going to be amazed at this for the rest of my life, and I say that it is not good for the proposal to be made by the government, but by what it produces. And all that's come out of this show is bad things.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u211	Mr President! I would like to return to what Mr Viitanen pointed out that instead of an active model, it would be worth developing, for example, the lessons that have been learnt in employment experiments, for example. For example, an employment experiment was carried out in Pirkanmaa, which significantly increased people’s activity through positive measures. We didn't need a cutter, and I'm sure the government saved money when people got to work. In addition to the various employment measures that promote people's employment, we should also have the means to create new jobs by supporting entrepreneurship, and in this context I would like to point out that, for example, supporting small businesses in the recruitment of first-time workers is one way of enabling us to get young people to work more quickly, for example. Of course, companies are different and their needs are different, but if this were to be developed, the results could certainly be good. Above all, the supply of work should be increased and it will be helped by supporting entrepreneurship, smart tax policy and, of course, by trust in people and giving them genuine opportunities to spend their time on usefulness. If a person deliberately decides to stay on the couch at home, then at the level of society it is the individual’s choice, and it is not our job to whip him up from there to try to get him up, but to find ways to get him out and go out without the so-called coercive measures, which, in this case too, the active model represents. So I would continue to emphasize that human image. We should leave the positive image of the human being, and the fact that we have cutters that target certain people, as it were, prejudging them and, moreover, disparate people in relation to others, is not based on a positive view of the human being. The active model should be dismantled. It is clearly on the list of this government that they do not want to interfere with, but in the next government negotiations, the next Finnish government will have to dismantle this model.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u212	Mr President! In fact, Mrs Parviainen raised a successful employment experiment in Tampere — Pirkanmaa and centrally in Tampere — which I myself would have liked to talk about. There the number of unemployed and the number of long-term unemployed clearly decreased and the feedback that came from the experiment was very positive. And what was at the heart of it — if it were to continue there and spread to other parts of Finland — was precisely that the long-term unemployed were received in a comprehensive way: listened and faced and investigated what really are the problems or what are the challenges in the job seeker’s own life or training situation or the situation in the surrounding environment. It was an official or woman who supported, helped, side by side as a traveler, as a motivational. In that sense, with this positive encouragement and, in a certain way, with a very good result, we would like to see this type of activity continue. The reason why we initially opposed this active model was precisely because of the fact that there were these major drain defects. It cannot be that even if a person does a lot of work to find a job or find a suitable place for training or any other activity that is considered to be such an adequate activity, so that compensation is not cut — this is where the large losses are left — then in a situation that does not depend on the person himself, that is to say, trying to find a job, trying to find training when it is not found in the place or in the vicinity, despite the efforts being made to cut that livelihood. It is, however, a matter of livelihood, which in the first place is very, very limited and is still being cut. This does not fit in with any idea of the rule of law and humane treatment. In the sense that these defects were left behind, and not only have they treated people unequally at regional level, it still has age-related inequalities — inequalities above all because this reduction in compensation has no longer been in people's own hands but depends largely on the situation in the locality. All in all, I would like to point out that, when we have talked about basic income, the basic protection provided by the KD would be much more supportive and effective, taking into account the various forms of support and contributing to the fact that small pieces of work are also worthwhile. So the job should always be profitable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u213	Mr President! I myself, having listened to this debate, would like to make a few points. In other words, my opposition to and criticism of the active model is precisely based on the fact that, from the very beginning, the model has been exposed to shortcomings which have all taken place as such and which treats people unequally, puts them in an impossible situation. It can be said that even by trying sincerely not everyone can fulfil the conditions of the active model, and yet they are being cut off from their livelihoods, and I think that is wrong. But now that this debate was extended to a somewhat more philosophical level, i.e. to talk in principle about solutions of the kind of citizen's salary, non-remunerated foundations, I must say that I am not really in a position to support them. In other words, the Finnish work ethic has traditionally been based on the fact that people have to work to live if they are able to do so and that job is now available to them. In other words, free money — that nothing should be done about it — I do not think society can afford such an incentive. I am, of course, in favour of reforming social security and improving it, of reducing running from one door to the other and of dismantling incentive traps, particularly through the carrot, not the stick, but I do not think that we should leave for free of charge on a principle level.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u214	Mr President! First of all, the SDP agrees with the proposal of the citizens' initiative that the active model of unemployment protection should be abolished. At no time have we supported the active model of unemployment protection, which unfairly cuts unemployment security and which was put into effect by the government in the parliamentary vote. The reasons are clear: The model has proved to be unfair. The activity of those benefiting from unemployment benefit is monitored during the period considered for the payment of 65 days of unemployment benefit. If the activity is not sufficient, the unemployment benefit will be paid over the next reference period at a reduced rate of more than 4.5%. The results obtained so far on the functioning of the model suggest that the model acts as an advantage cutter but its other effects have been limited. One important observation is that the active model of unemployment benefit does not treat jobseekers equally. The model has also proved to be territorially unfair and still treats workers in different sectors unfairly. The model has also been found to cut the benefit of older unemployed people in particular. For example, in the sectors covered by the SAK, only 13% of older people managed to meet the criterion of activity during the first reference period. It is also a big flaw and wrong that the model ignores people with a disability or disability restriction. A significant proportion of the long-term unemployed have a need for care and rehabilitation to improve their working capacity. It is unfair not to take into account people's ability to function and to require the same level of activity, even if they need, above all, a study of their ability to work, function and health restrictions, and guidance on appropriate care, rehabilitation, work capacity limitations or other appropriate services. It is necessary to examine how employment support services would better respond to the needs of those target groups who are or are seeking these services. It has also been said that the model increases bureaucracy and does not provide adequate services. The unnecessary monitoring and sanctions of the unemployed should be reduced and, above all, efforts should be made to provide employment-promoting services and positive incentives rather than to punish them. The flaw in the model is that even active self-seeking is not considered to be a model in itself that can avoid falling unemployment security. An unemployed person who, on the basis of an assessment of the need for services, is not provided with employment-friendly services but only self-employed job-seeking is put in an unfair position. It has also been verifiable that the model adds to the difficulties in making a living. Reductions in small incomes are significant in the daily lives of the unemployed person. The unemployment benefits paid by Kela, i.e. basic daily allowance and labour market support, are on average just under EUR 670 per month gross without child increases. The surgery is even more substantial for those receiving child increases in unemployment benefit. However, income support as a last resort benefit is wrong if the need for the benefit is caused by legislation and the reduction of primary benefits. As a result of the active model, dealing with several authorities increases the bureaucracy of the support system and further weakens incentives for employment. We can't afford this. Mr President! The cutter must be abandoned and services developed. The unfair cutter of the active model must be abandoned and active employment services must be developed on a customer-oriented basis. The SDP strongly supports the adoption of the citizens' initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u215	Mr President! I myself have been chairman of the steering group for the employment of the long-term unemployed in recent times, and in my own experience I would like to stress that there are very few people who are deliberately unemployed or who are reluctant to work in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u218	Mr President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen gave an excellent speech here, and not only in the Committee on the Future, but also in the Parliamentary Group on Health and Welfare, we have worked well together. I too would have liked to point out in my second speech that, if we have long-term unemployed people who feel that there is too much of a wing in the country, too cloudy or too dark that future and too difficult a situation to take up work, then we have to catch up to the root causes of whether there is a need for rehabilitation, whether there is a need for medical care, what reasons there are for having a mind in the country and depression, other than long unemployment. A similar experience from Pirkanmaa and Tampere is that there is a very small group of young people or parents who do not want to take up the job, and if you think about and wonder about taking up the job, it often comes up with the fact that you have that self-esteem already, or you have the idea that I can't, I can't, I can't and should be able to do more or more than it feels like you have the ability at that point. It is then that those around us and those involved in employment services should understand to stop and intervene in this matter, and precisely those root reasons to raise the issue and together find ways to move forward in order to raise its weakened self-esteem or self-respect. Of course, it is a big thing for older people too, because many times there are very good skills and work experience in such an age group, and they often say that we are no longer capable of anything – we also have huge potential in the labour market among older people and middle-aged people – but this is a big thing, especially if I think of young people: if a young person has been out of work for a long time, then it seems that the threshold will only grow and grow and become very high, and this is, of course, a big question for the future life. That is why I would see that a special effort should be made not only in education but also in education and training to get young people to work — first in the form of those pilot places, perhaps shorter jobs and, hopefully, positive feedback and encouragement, and, if there is a place of criticism, then it would also be presented in a constructive way — so that none of our young people would be left without a job and thus be caught up in working life, because in many ways that work is also a protective factor in life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u219	Mr President! One more thing that came up here: When a certain proportion of this benefit is lost, you can apply for income support as if you were short of what was left behind, and this is an inconceivable thought structure. It's gonna add to everyone's work. It's gonna be a waste of time. In time, in Espoo, the City of Espoo housing company was incorporated and the rents rose by 70 per cent in some places as a result of this incorporation. And when political responsibility was sought, it was then stated that well, the income support will handle this. I find this kind of thinking really irresponsible. It is not built for this purpose that bad decisions are being made here, and then another form of support is actually being made, and, above all, because this person, who is being targeted, will have to patch up these bad laws by his own work and running from one door to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u220	Mr President! The aim of the Sipilä Government was to increase employment by a wide range of measures and, as you well know, there are indeed, very many of them and this active model is one of them. And yes, when this started, it may have been said that this does not treat everyone on an equal footing, but, as you are well aware, a number of measures have been taken which have now extended this subject of this citizens' initiative, that is to say, this active model has been changed, but those changes have not, of course, been fully successful. And you also know that there is an assessment of the impact of this model on TE services and the direct impact of the model on unemployment and also on labour market transitions. And this interim report is now to be expected in April, but only in the autumn of the final report, so it is really possible to assess the results of this active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u221	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u222	Mr President! At present, only Jehovah’s Witnesses have been exempted from military service on the basis of their convictions on the basis of the modern law of liberation. Other conscientious objectors, on the other hand, have been sentenced to punishment. The adoption of this law as such would remedy this problem of equality. We in the Left Alliance believe that equality is a space to be sought, but we would rectify the problem differently. The government's proposal is problematic from a fundamental and human rights point of view. The government's proposal does not solve the problem of prisoners of conscience who, because of their religion or belief, do not feel able to perform military or civil service and who are therefore sentenced to unconditional imprisonment or probation. This presentation, therefore, brings Jehovah’s Witnesses as a new group into the penal code of the Military and Civil Service Act, likely increasing the number of total bans on custodial punishments. In its country reports on Finland, the UN Human Rights Committee has repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that the exemption of Jehovah’s Witnesses has not been extended to other groups of conscientious objectors. Furthermore, the UN Human Rights Committee has drawn attention to the punitive duration of civil service and the recognition of the right to conscientious objectors only during peace. For these reasons, the Left Alliance makes the following statement for its adoption: ‘The Commission requires the Board of Directors to submit a proposal for a reduction in the duration of the civil service in the future,and to waive the right tofreedom to object.’ Mr President! In Finland, in a country of freedom of opinion and religion, everyone has the right to his or her own beliefs, and if your own conviction prevents you, it gives you the idea that you do not want to take up arms, so everyone has the right to do so without losing their freedom.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u223	Mr President! I do not see this problem in the way proposed by the Left Alliance, but I completely disagree with it in principle and structurally. Justice before duty is only in the dictionary. I would understand that if someone’s conviction forbids the use of a weapon, but it is impossible to understand how that conviction can deny an unarmed service or civil service. This proposal is minor but of fundamental importance. It is also untenable that a certain system of beliefs should be exempt from the obligation imposed on everyone else. There can only be one law, and it must be the same for all of us. Nevertheless, this idea must be supported, and the idea could be extended to other so-called positive discrimination, that is, special treatment. Such arrangements should, in principle, be abolished and prevented from arising in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u224	Mr President! As Mr Modig said earlier, this proposal now started to solve the problem of not treating all convictions equally at the moment, in such a way that now also Jehovah’s witnesses are concerned with this military service, and not in the same way that we have also released others with deep convictions, whether it is pacifistic or whatever. This was discussed in committee, or was an option, but now the proposal went in this direction that Jehovi would no longer be released but, on the other hand, would not be extended to those who would release it. It is important that the report should be drawn up in order to clarify the broader development of the duty of defence and the stronger separation from military duty, so that everyone can find the best way to fulfil the duty of defence, and to consider more broadly the procedures for taking greater account of the various convictions in order to achieve greater freedom of religion and conscience, because now, as has been mentioned here, we have a situation in which we have other groups who feel that they do not want this obligation to be exercised. As such, we have civil service, which is very good, but it is now punishable, it is much longer in duration. That is why we in the committee would have liked to raise this issue, but since civil service is not under the authority of the Committee on Defence but falls within the remit of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, we could not raise this statement in committee but must now do so in this Chamber, and I therefore support that motion made by Mr Modig. All in all, it is good to remember that, of course, national defence is a broader concept than military defence, and it would be good to consider how we would be able to enable each of us to carry out a national defence duty, to extend it more in the direction of civil service, so that it would not be so connected to this term of defence. We know that in crisis situations there are a lot of tasks and needs where every citizen has a role and an important place to play, whether they are related to the fight against environmental disasters, they are related to maintaining security of supply, they are related to increasing the hybrid effect, information and related defence and resistance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u225	Mr President! Firstly, I support this statement made by Mr Modig, including when it comes to this Chamber, for the following reasons: You can apply for civil service under normal conditions on the basis of an application without an examination of your conviction — i.e. without an examination of your conviction. The examination of stability was dropped after Finland received reprimands from the European Court of Human Rights, and it was based on the idea that no human being is good enough to judge and examine the depth of a person’s conviction. However, the duration of civil service is now problematic because it is not equal and has the nature of the punishment. This is precisely the nature of the punishment that involves someone expressing their convictions. There is a contradiction here, and that is why I consider this statement by Mr Modig to be very important and important that this matter should finally be rectified in some time frame. I myself am one of those people who, at the age of 17, stood alone in a room with three professional soldiers who then strained the conviction of a 17-year-old boy and demanded that he give watertight explanations of their own beliefs. Well, at the end of that discussion it was said that my conviction seems to be personal and deep enough, but as a punishment for it I received 12 months of service. It was the feeling it became and still is. In this context, Mr President, I am surprised that we now have an expert on this kind of conviction at the Finnish Immigration Service, Migri, who wonders about the depth of the conviction of asylum seekers when they come there and say that they have converted into Christians in Finland. Now these decisions by Migri come with the idea that the opinion reads: ‘Stability is not a reality. “ I'm just asking, what's the professionalism of this expert? He may be a theologian, he may be some other philosopher or doctor, but what is the meter he uses to judge the innermost feelings of man? The nature of this proposal, which we have here, is precisely that in this context the experts hoped that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u226	Mr President! Here's your representative. Through his own experience, Laukkanen described the unreasonable situations that people have faced and are still facing. Stability is a personal matter for each of us; it cannot be questioned by the other. We're supposed to respect each other's beliefs. Taking up arms is a very big issue and its choice should be a personal and free choice for everyone as to how they want to deal with the situation. Personally, I think that the state has no right to impose or demand it on anyone. Stability can be religious, or as a nonreligious person to me, it is pacifism. They're both just as valuable. It must be possible to serve and defend its country without military service and therefore civil service is not a sufficient means, not to mention its punitive duration. The obligation to defend the country should be able to be performed by a variety of means which are not linked to military duty. As Mr Mikkonen well described here, there are many of those ways of serving his own country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u227	Mr President! There was one thing that remained to be said when the time ran out: that the will and will of the people seeking civil service is high. That is what this is all about. I remember when in my own interrogation I asked these soldiers if the army would train me to kill a man, they thought long and found out that they did, and that's why I refused that honor. But my will to defend the country is high. And when they asked where I could be put in these assignments, I found that if that is what is considered good, I could act as a mine cleaner. The problem for me is not that I defend my country, but how I can do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u230	Mr President! In this House, too few thanks come from a good, excellent speech. I will do so now and thank Mrs Antero Laukka for two very profound speeches. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u231	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 17/2018 vp. The committee proposes to reject the proposal contained in the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u232	Mr President! Thank you again on behalf of the entire committee for taking the initiative. This citizens' initiative proposes that Parliament prepares an in-depth study and takes the necessary measures and legal reforms to eliminate the chargeability of upper secondary and vocational studies. After all, studies in vocational education and upper secondary school itself are free of charge at the moment, but compulsory books and other learning materials cause significant costs, at their highest, of up to thousands of euros for students and their parents. Work has been done to improve the situation during this parliamentary term, as the committee also refers to in its report. In August of this year, an educational material supplement of EUR 46.80 per month, approved by Parliament, will come into force and will cover 33,000 young people from lower-income families studying at second degree. In addition, at the end of 2018, the Finnish National Board of Education has granted grants to a total of 18 projects that develop open digital learning materials, material banks and reform education to reduce the costs for students. The projects will be implemented in 2019 and their results will be available in early 2020. Mr President! We had a wide-ranging expert consultation on the basis of a citizens' initiative in the Committee on Culture. We wanted to find out in committee how the free-of-charge proposed in the initiative and the measures already taken affect the drop-out of studies and the choices of young people in education. According to the Amisbarometri, study motivation, learning difficulties and well-being challenges are among the most important reasons for dropping out of education for under 20-year-olds. Money concerns are also significant. They were highlighted in this survey as the seventh most important reason for dropping out of school. According to a report by the Finnish National Board of Education to upper secondary school students, 65 per cent consider the cost of upper secondary school studies to be reasonable. 29 per cent of the respondents estimate that they are experiencing financial difficulties, and 6 per cent estimate that those economic difficulties are significant. The committee's expert hearings revealed that the costs of secondary education may not be provided in advance, so that their magnitude may come as a surprise to students and their families. The payment of visits to studies, such as theatre, museum and swimming halls, also prevents some students from participating. On this basis, we make the 1st statement that ‘the Member State requires the Ministry of Education and Culture to ensure that guidance is given to the second level of education and trainingin which training organisers are given the need to provide information on the number of learning The committee also examined the possible costs of the second-degree free-of-charge. If the funding of free upper secondary education were to be the responsibility of the State in such a way that the materials and supplies given to the student remain for the student's own use, even after the studies, it would mean an increase of between EUR 109 million and EUR 153 million per year for the state and, in addition, expenditure on possible school trips not included in the above-mentioned estimate. Mr President! The committee considered it excellent that the issue of the payment of secondary education, which has been raised over the years of government, has been strongly brought into the debate by the citizens' initiative. The completion of secondary education is a necessity for coping with current working life. The Committee therefore stresses that the citizens' initiative raises an important concern, but notes that, given the constitutional status of Parliament, Parliament is not the right body to carry out the study and legislative reform required by the initiative. The Act of Citizens' Initiative allows a proposal to be made on the preparation of the law, but the preparation of the law is a matter for the Government, which has the necessary resources to do so. It is regrettable and even a little funny that, because of this formality, the Committee as a whole had no choice but to propose that the initiative be rejected because of the Rules of Procedure. From outside the formal presentation of the report, it must be said that perhaps there would be a general development of the citizens' initiative system in this regard. In any event, because of this situation, we had to act in committee on the basis of statements and reject the actual initiative. However, this is only a matter of technology, since the positions are reflected in those statements. I think it is perhaps the most fruitful thing in this debate to focus attention on the content of those statements. In its statements, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs makes concrete demands for further preparation to improve equality in education and training. The committee notes that, in consultation with experts, the costs of training were highlighted as one of the major causes of the drop-out. The committee believes that the implementation of the free movement of goods must be properly investigated in parallel with other necessary measures. The aim must be the Committee's repeated aim of every young person completing secondary education regardless of the starting point. On this basis, the committee proposes that Parliament adopt the second statement. It reads in this way: ‘The Council of State requires the Council of State to monitor and assess the evolution of the cost of studies for students, taking The report shall include an in-depth assessment of the effects on children.” The report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u233	Mr President! If I were a high school student or ami today, I would probably have been in the barricades for equality and democracy and annoyed by those in power. Vilma Maria Virolainen, who described herself as a single parent as a child, told on Facebook that she had gone to the barricades in the name of equality and democracy. He's a barber-hairdresser, whose studies made it possible for his stepfather and grandparents to help him. He said that he had come to the sword to listen to him and the 53,000 free-of-charge second-degree signatories, i.e. that a free-of-charge second-degree is needed. Mr President! We must thank those who have taken the initiative and many who have given their faces to this initiative, and perhaps as a little surprise to myself, they still seem to be needed. I thought until a few weeks ago that the content of this initiative had the unanimous support of Parliament. This would also have been in the spirit of the initiative, which has been prepared quite widely by the organisations and which, of course, is still possible. It surprises us that it seemed to the committee that the disagreement between the government parties led to the fact that we did not receive a joint statement that would have allowed this initiative to be fully supported. But it can indeed be changed in this Chamber, and we will make a presentation. It reads as follows: ‘The Commission requires a group of citizens to draw up a detailed report and legislativereforms toremove
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u236	Mr President! To begin with, I very much appreciate this protest by the SDP, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the RKP and the support it has given to this proposal by the young people. I cannot understand that when one word is miswritten, it leads us to move forward through statements and that initiative itself cannot be interpreted as an initiative for action. I'm not a lawyer. If that is indeed the case, then we must change our law on the citizens' initiative. Much is said about the concern that young people do not vote and are not politically and socially active. This is a wet cloth against their faces after all this preparation and this social activity. I think it would be quite appropriate in such a situation to look at the initiative as a measure initiative and approach it through its content. If the citizens' initiative requires a precise, precise wording of the legal text without any comma errors, then it will not work. Then we will have to change the practice of making a citizens' initiative, perhaps changing the law or offering even more help to ensure that citizens get their things presented as they wish. But fortunately, this objection exists. I am very much in favour of this. And I would also like to thank you for your good cooperation. I now hope that the government parties will join in to support the fact that education is equal in Finland and that everyone will have the opportunity of a second degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, before the sitting Mr Torst, Mr Kari, Mr Gustafsson and Mr Eloranta have asked to speak for this debate through a long queue. I suggest that these speeches be used first and then stopped in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u238	I thank the President for his wise assessment of the situation. Fortunately, it was President Pekkarinen who was speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, the first paragraph of this protest — signed by the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the RKP — begins: ‘We agree with the content of the citizens’ initiative. We justify this, in particular, with two very important social developments. In today's society, there is no longer any employment in a mere primary school, which underlines the importance of the fact that the entire age group must complete secondary education, while at present as much as 15 per cent are left to primary education alone." And then the second: ‘There is no need for a level playing field between young people In this protest, we have set out in such depth that we refer to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and also to the Constitution of Finland, which is based on ensuring that every child's right to education is guaranteed without fail. It is the image of our time and society that we have this kind of economic inequality, polarisation, seen as an increase in the poverty of families with children. And it is, of course, wrong that it is weakening and preventing the advancement and completion of talented and skilled young people, as the studies show. Some people have to work, and some have to wonder whether, every week, parents — these children, young people see little money — can and do ask hundreds of euros for learning materials and tools in early autumn. That is why this question is a matter of fundamental principle, and I would also say, in a certain way, moral. However, Finland is still, although slightly stripped, such a Nordic welfare state — and I want to keep it that way — where children and young people have the right to study. I am not so enthusiastic about this formal legal debate. Why am I not excited? Because the opposition was able to make a proposal together, an objection which agrees with this citizens' initiative. Congressman Cloud Torsti already read it once. However, it is so good that it is worth reading again: ‘The Commission requires a group of citizens to submit a detailed report to the Council of State on the measures and legislative reforms needed toremove the fees for studies’. Mr President! I have been a Member of Parliament for a long time and a member of the Committee on Culture and Education for 20 years — perhaps the longest anyone in recent decades. I now think that the situation that has been created is such a clumsy — I would not say in plain language ugly — that, as it were, we are now giggling on this page. All credit to these statements made by the government parties. They do not harm development and guide the way, but do not take a stand on this fundamental issue. Well, it is possible to take it now that we are voting on this statement. If you genuinely and truly want a free second step, then you will support and vote in favour of this statement by Cloud Torst, which Mr Gustafsson supports. In other words, Mr President, I support Mrs Torst's statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u239	Mr President! Our future well-being is built on increasing the level of competence of all Finns. It requires investment in education and training. We need to reform to ensure that every young person has at least a vocational or upper secondary school degree in his pocket, because because of the great change in working life, it is very difficult to find employment in an elementary school alone. Over the last 30 years, 600,000 jobs have been lost with a comprehensive school base. Only 30% of primary jobs remain. Basic education of this time necessarily requires secondary education. A secondary degree is also one of the most important factors in preventing exclusion. However, as many as 15 per cent of Finnish young people have not completed a secondary degree by the age of 25. Still, out of each age group, some 10,000 young people finish their studies in comprehensive school. The training is also passed on. The educational background of parents also has a positive impact on the choice of their children in applying for second degree. According to Statistics Finland's education statistics for 2016, one year after graduation, 65 per cent of those having completed upper secondary vocational education in employment were employed. The employment prospects for young people who were left behind in comprehensive school were significantly lower than for those with qualifications. According to the survey, the chances of finding employment among young people who have completed comprehensive school remain at 15 per cent in the first year of unemployment. Only those who attend comprehensive school work half their working age and are unemployed every four years. On average, almost eight years of unemployment are accumulated for those who are dependent on comprehensive school at working age. Of these 15 per cent, Finnish young people, who by the age of 25 do not have that upper secondary degree in their pocket, are less than half, or about 43 per cent, at work. We need to ensure that everyone has at least that secondary degree in the future in order to find employment. At the same time, young people who face different challenges in learning must receive the necessary support until they are able to take care of themselves. This is particularly important for young people in foster care, for example, or for those at risk of falling from education. So let us hold on to each young person until he grows up to be responsible for his own future. Mr President! As the authors of the citizens' initiative rightly point out, the cost of secondary education in the current situation puts families and children at a disadvantage on the basis of economic factors. According to a report by the Children’s Association, nearly 60 per cent of the young people who responded felt that secondary costs have caused them or their families economic challenges, either slightly or greatly. According to a report by the Finnish National Board of Education in 2018, up to one third of families in upper secondary schools face challenges in coping financially with the costs of studies. The youth barometer of 2017 shows that economic reasons influence, for example, the decisions made by young people at the place of study or cause them to delay their graduation. 17 per cent of young people say they have reduced their study options due to lack of money, and nearly half of young people without a degree or place of study have had to reduce or give up their studies because of lack of money. These are really wild readings in well-being Finland. At the same time, we are bound by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Constitution of Finland, which secures the right of every child to education without fail. However, the cost of upper secondary and secondary vocational education is currently excessively expensive for many young people and their families. According to the Finnish Union of Upper Secondary School students, the costs of upper secondary school are approximately 2,600 euros, while the costs of upper secondary vocational education vary significantly from one primary and educational institution to another. Cooking knives or hairdressers' hairstyles and other accessories are expensive, for many hundreds of euros. Moreover, when applying for vocational education and training, young people generally do not even know about these contracts in advance, and the cost comes as a surprise. In addition to full-time studies, a young person of underage age should not work excessively to be able to pay for his or her studies at a secondary level. Young people should be able to concentrate on their studies and invest fully in their education. The citizens' initiative requires that Parliament prepare an in-depth study and take the necessary measures and legal reforms to eliminate the cost of upper secondary school and vocational studies, i.e. to provide for the free provision of secondary education by law, so that every child's right to education can be achieved on an equal footing. It is easy to agree with this requirement. Mr President! The entire opposition, excluding the Finns of Peru, agreed with our objection to the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection to the second-degree free initiative. In the protest, therefore, we agreed with the word 'free' on the content of the second-degree citizens' initiative, which I have just read. A good way to achieve the free upper secondary objective is also to extend compulsory education from the current comprehensive school to the entire upper secondary education. This would also make learning materials free of charge. The reform would quickly pay for itself, as Finland cannot afford to lose any young people. All young people need upper secondary education, including drop-out students, for whom payments have not been the reason for the drop-out. That is why extending compulsory education would be a good way to achieve free education. However, it is not enough just to complete a degree. In addition, new ways of lifelong learning are needed to keep everyone involved in a changing world. The reform of continuous learning must make it possible for every Finnish person to know how and update it with a changing working life. Finally, I will read a young letter. This is what Blazej tells us: ‘I am 19 years old from Turku, which is graduating from the logistics sector this year. When I started studying in 2016, I received a letter asking me to buy books for 400 euros. Some books were used only for one course. In many areas expensive supplies and books are purchased. Most people cannot afford to buy or acquire them when there is no source of income, and so they decide not to accept a place of study or have to put their studies on hold when they know they cannot afford to study. It is often the case that there was no information on the cost of vocational education and training, which is why many young people do not know how much it will cost to start their studies. I have many friends and acquaintances who have dropped out of college for money. It is worrying that the so-called rich can afford to acquire and study a profession and the poor cannot. At the free second stage, the number of students would increase and young people would be encouraged to study and secure their future.” So I saw Blazej, 19 years from Turku.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u240	And now, apparently, there is room for a little debatation. I give the first response to Mr Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u241	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, Mr Puumala, hoped that we would speak today. That is a good thing, but one statement is missing. One statement is missing, the one Torsti read here in front of everyone. That one statement sums up the will of the 53,000 signatories. It will be possible to vote on that one statement tomorrow. Today's debate, tomorrow's vote. It would have been possible for one initiative to be taken forward by the committee through a statement if there had been room for will. Unfortunately, there was no room for will in the centre, in the assembly and in the blue to take this statement forward. It is not possible to rely on technical formalities in a situation where it is purely a matter of value choice and will mode. Today's debate, tomorrow's vote. Me and the Green Group and certainly the rest of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u242	Mr President! Above all, the citizens' initiative is about equality and that we, as decision-makers, should create equal conditions for all young people to study. In a country such as Finland, it should not be possible for someone not to be able to study because they cannot afford it, and the RKP is in favour of a free second degree for these very reasons of equality. However, this is not enough. It can't be that the only investment that comes is this. We also need investments in student guidance, student care and, for example, local education for students who need it next season. We need a wide range of investments in the second stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u243	Mr President! First of all, thank you to all the active people of the citizens' initiative. Messages about everyday life tell a harsh language about secondary education. Cutting contact teaching hours has led to groups being completely overly dependent on self-directed studies. I dare say that all of us Members of Parliament have received feedback on this. The cost of studying and living also threatens the ability of many to study. No young person should be forced to drop out of their studies due to material fees. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the SDP has proposed extending compulsory education and making secondary school free of charge. Exclusion from secondary education often presupposes lower health status, more periods of unemployment and shorter working lives than those with upper secondary school or vocational education. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, can we afford this? I don't think so. We must dismantle the structures that displace people from society and enable everyone to have a natural access to studies. An equal education policy is the basis on which Finland’s success has been based and hopefully will continue to be based. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a technical matter, it is a matter of purely political will.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has asked for the floor, but I would like to give these about ten replies, one-minute speeches, followed by the Minister, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u245	Mr President! This is an excellent citizens' initiative in substance, and it is worth thanking the authors and the drafters of the initiative for this. However, I would like to say something about this system of citizens' initiatives that there is actually something to be developed here so that Parliament does not have to abandon it in this way on the basis of formal considerations. I have been allowed to take part in a number of different committees in the debate on the citizens' initiative this season — the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Education, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health — and every time there is a similar problem, that is to say, it is common to all these debates that at some point we are considering how to take this forward. They shouldn't be tiptop. It cannot be assumed that the author of every citizens' initiative is a constitutional expert or a lawyer, but that there should be a system that really does go out of this mill without criticism. And at this point I would say that it must be noted that even experienced representatives have not been able to make a citizens' initiative that would simply pass.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u246	Mr President! As such, I agree with the need to correct this process of citizens' initiatives, and this episode is no credit to our fine institution of citizens' initiatives. But Parliament, and especially the government parties, cannot go behind this formal error at this reading when it comes to the free second stage. In other words, if we are talking about a party that is in favour of free education for all at a different level, if the representatives are what this initiative is like, then it is not logical to support the statements made through the Committee on Government Parties which do not support this initiative, its content. Those statements have not been formulated in such a way. In other words, if you are in favour of the content of this initiative, then you must now vote in favour of the statement brought by the opposition in this Chamber. And on top of that, it has strong arguments now that exceptionally it happened that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u250	Mr President! Mr Andersson and Mr Lindtman are quite right. There is no formality why this could not be accepted, because you have made a substantive objection to it. Why has this not been approved? Six weeks and five days before the elections, the parties have different positions on this issue. [Antti Lindtman requests the reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u251	Mr President! Indeed, in my opinion, it is also unnecessary to discuss these formalities here in itself; it must only be corrected that this has been said in the wrong way, which is precisely that, since this was an initiative for action, we were therefore unable to change the content. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u252	Mr President! If there was a formal error in the citizens' initiative, then the committee had every chance of responding to this error by bringing in a statement requiring Parliament to carry out a free second stage report in accordance with the citizens' initiative. All of us — both those who sign the initiative and those Members who do not sit in committee — are now amazed at why this did not happen. And that is precisely why we are now making these parallel counter-proposals to correct the situation. When it comes to the citizens' initiative in this way, I think it was rather rash of the committee, because it sends out the very message that the citizens' initiative must really be taken by a lawyer before it gets the attention for which the system has been created.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go through these replies, which were requested by the time the machine was shut down, and then the Minister will speak. And then, of course, let us return to the desires that have just been raised here to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u254	Mr President! Many of us have received messages about this citizens' initiative. I received a letter from the upper secondary school students in Eastern Finland, and their message is as follows — now comes a direct quote: “We have followed the decision-making and debate on the second level of all citizens’ initiative, even with little disbelief. Above all, we hope that Parliament will discuss precisely the content of this initiative and will not become bogged down in formal matters. We are disappointed that the content of the initiative has been watered down in the opinions of the Committee on Culture. The committee could have included the objectives of the initiative in its statements, i.e. calling for a study and the necessary measures and legislative reforms to remove payment. The least that could have been done would have to be explained in terms of the options and costs for the implementation of the freedom of payment.’ This message is highly justified and signed by this message
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u255	Mr President! As has been said here in many good speeches, in this current situation and in the moment, the statement is now the instrument by which we can give our support to this important initiative or by which we can refuse its support. And in the statement of objection we have ended up giving its support, will and action in such a way that it can be promoted in a genuinely free second stage. It is very important to remember that, when we often talk about the fact that we still have free education, at the same time the day-to-day and reality does not exist, but there are these different costs, and the more they increase, the more the risk of inequality arises. That is why we must safeguard that basic value from a truly free second degree and do all the work needed to do it. Mr Nylander also raised a very important element about the fact that this is, as it were, just the beginning and the starting shot and we must do a lot of other support measures in the future in order to genuinely realise that it is open to all, that everyone has access to it and that all the obstacles and structures that could be removed through human background, identity or wealth could:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u256	Mr President! Mr Parviainen's earlier speech certainly convinced us all that appealing to this formality is purely a flight from responsibility. It is quite a fact that, at the moment, political decision-making undermines the conditions for the well-being of young people, and this initiative specifically requires that society ensure that all young people have the right to education. Extending compulsory education to 18 years and ensuring that this is really the case. It seems that now the government is trying to patch up the worst cuts by closing gaps, for example with this material support, but yes the fact is that these patches on this kind of weak tape surface are simply not enough. Tomorrow we will have the opportunity to vote in favour of this statement by Mr Torst, and I sincerely hope that the majority of Parliament will be able to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u257	Mr President! Thank you to those young people who have collected names for this initiative. We know today that a secondary degree is a necessity to succeed. The second level is today's primary school, and it is clear that everyone must be guaranteed that it can be done, and that it must not depend on whether the family can afford it, nor must the choice of education depend on not being able to choose another area because it is more expensive. The fact that the government parties have now gone behind this formality is truly embarrassing. As has already been pointed out, this cannot go beyond any elections either, as this initiative would like to see an explanation of how this free training could be carried out, and only then will the next government take any possible decisions. If the explanations are already made, then those decisions will be easier to make by the next government, and that is where every party can decide what is in mind. Now we know that at least the coalition is against it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give Mr Tanus a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u259	Mr President! First of all, a great thank you to the young people. It’s quite dizzy that they got this kind of citizens’ initiative and collected as many supporters as it had. It is certainly not a simple and easy matter. I signed this citizens' initiative at the very beginning, and it was quite self-evident to me to do so because I raised these issues, including the free second stage, in my written question in September 2017. The second stage and the completion of it is absolutely essential today, and no one should be able to get caught up in the fact that there are not enough euros to do so. We have now gone behind the technicalities, and indeed, as many times many have already pointed it out, this would not have had to be done in committee. On the other hand, I also think in the context of this citizens' initiative tool that these will be checked before they come out formally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u260	And now, Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u261	Mr President! In Finland, we must not have a situation where some of our young people fail to complete or finish their education because of the family’s lack of money. I believe that we agree on this value base, and it has also been reflected in today's debate. I would also like to thank the young people for their initiative. The concerns of citizens' initiatives about the cost of secondary education material, namely upper secondary school books, computers, books and tools, have been taken seriously by the government. For this reason, the government decided a year ago in its spending limits debate to bring in an educational material supplement which, as a specific measure, will help those young people who are in a high-risk group who are excluded from education because of the cost of learning materials. Parliament has adopted a law on this material supplement in the autumn and will enter into force in the autumn. In other words, starting in the autumn, there will be relief for the young people of the families most in need of help and support. The educational material supplement is targeted at young people in families with the most challenging economic situation. The allowance is paid in connection with the study grant and does not need to be applied for separately. It is EUR 47 per month. A total of up to EUR 1400 may be added during the three academic years. The educational material supplement is an impressive action geared towards a real need, which helps to ensure that no one’s education is caught in the family’s wealthlessness. The educational material supplement solves the very problem identified by the citizens' initiative makers: no one's education in Finland must be caught. In addition to targeting financial support for the acquisition of materials, we also need to look for ways and ways to reduce costs across the board so that it helps everyone in high school and vocational education. That is why, together with willing municipalities, we have started learning materials pilots to look for new, innovative solutions to reduce the cost of secondary learning materials, from traditional recycling to the joint purchase of digital materials. The Government has also submitted a proposal to Parliament for digital alvi legislation, which reduces the taxation of e-learning materials. A total of EUR 4 million has been allocated to these pilots, which I mentioned, and there are 18 upper secondary schools and vocational institutions all over Finland, and also young people, we want to participate in this work. According to an official estimate made at the Ministry of Education and Culture, the purchase of educational materials for all secondary students would cost between EUR 87 and EUR 142 million. If we had this kind of money at our disposal, would it be worth spending it on educational material for all students, including those from wealthy families, or, for example, on much stronger student guidance and support? Just one example: we have calculated that EUR 100 million could, for example, hire more than 1500 special teachers at secondary schools. This is one example, to consider in this debate too. During this government, the number of young people not in education and working life has gone down clearly in Finland. The direction is the right one, and work needs to be continued on this development. The goal must be that every young person in Finland should complete at least a secondary degree, and this requires both reform of education and stronger support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u262	The Minister's speech must have given rise to a small debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in response to this question to stand up. This is where I prioritize members of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u263	Mr President! Thank you for being here with the Minister of Education. Well, it's natural, but I'm not really looking at the Minister of Education here. This matter was and is in the hands of the Parliament, and what is important here is what Mr Mikkonen has already said, but I confirm it: Mr Puumala, the Central Party, said verbatim this way that in a way the reason for this kind of conclusion, two loose statements and not a clear statement, is that he does not want to lock positions. That is why our proposal for a statement underlines that the Government will prepare a thorough report and take the necessary measures. So you have locked up your position — or whether it is that the assembly has locked up its position — so that you say in detail whatever your results may be, you are
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u264	Congressman Gustafsson, I now have to interrupt you because about a minute and a half had passed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u265	Mr President! In a very rare way, I have to ask Mr Gustafsson a little question about something. With that parliamentary experience, which you have, do you not really think that the free second level, 150 million, which some of us have been pursuing for 20 years, is a question at the level of government negotiation, which is ten weeks away from negotiations? Do you think that six weeks before the election, Parliament would simply decide that, yes, 150 million will be put into it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u266	Mr President! We Social Democrats see the need for an increase in compulsory school age, an increase in compulsory school age. We have clear objectives for this, but we do not want to put this issue on a stick here, despite the fact that the main economics researchers, the OAJ, the professors of the Economic Council, believe that it is an important reform that will pay for themselves in the longer term. It is therefore an investment which also includes a free second stage. At the end of the day, the question is that we can afford to invest, for example, about EUR 100 million in secondary development, and it will pay itself back in the longer term. That's why I don't think this kind of locking policy is appropriate in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u267	Mr President! If the party does not support the substance of the initiative, it is also logical, of course, to vote in favour of the statements made by these parliamentary parties in the committee, such as, for example, the coalition which clearly does not support the universal, the second stage free of charge for all, which has become extremely clear. On the other hand, I also wonder about this position in the centre, because if the party is in favour of what the citizens' initiative says, that is to say, the second stage free of charge, why not support the citizens' initiative when it is before Parliament? At least the position of the Left Alliance goes so far that it does not matter whether it is a government proposal or a citizens' initiative or someone else. If we are in favour of that content, then we are in favour of it and we will vote in favour of it in the big House, and one might even find it valuable that the parties are able to support the initiative taken by non-governmental organisations, student organisations, young people themselves in this way in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u268	Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage in the debate, I would like to give the floor to Mr Yanar, Mr Multala, Mr Lindtman and the chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u269	Mr President! Today, we spent many hours in cold weather demonstrating that everyone has equal opportunities to go to high school or vocational education, and everyone in this education debate can speak beautiful, but when the time comes for action, then the squirming begins. Among other things, the Coalition Party replied in a demonstration that they did not support the second level free of charge, not in tomorrow's vote or next term. So it is clear that the Coalition Party is not in favour of equal study opportunities. With regard to this position in the centre, which is really strange, it goes as follows: the Centre will not vote in favour of this tomorrow, but they will support it next season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u270	Mr President! I think there has been a very good debate here, but then, in part, a somewhat misleading debate on what is at stake, and I would like to say to this once again that I do not think it is right to say that we are opposed to this either. I believe that the objective of this initiative is excellent, precisely because anyone's chances of progress in education must not be due to the thickness of the wallet. But when we know that 11% of young people do not achieve sufficient literacy and 14% of young people do not achieve sufficient mathematical skills in order to succeed in a second degree or in life at all, we believe that there are other means that are essential to achieving the goal of having a secondary degree for all young people. That is why I believe that what Mrs Puumala has said here is absolutely correct and, instead, what Mr Mikkonen has said is that it is not the case that we are now committing ourselves to the principle of free payment, because that is precisely what is stated in this statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u271	Mr President! I think that this situation has become extremely clear. The Minister of Education took the floor here, which made it clear that he preferred to go on this line of support and not to support or support the content of this initiative, and, in the same vein, Mr Multala. I think it is honest in itself that the assembly should say this out loud. What is at issue here is that, once again, the fact that only one party, the coalition, is actually holding the majority of Parliament hostage. There is a bit of focus here on the centre as well: when the assembly has in fact been separated from the war front and the blue from the war front, then, ladies and gentlemen of the centre, would it not now be a place to make a decision in favour of equality and equality, for tomorrow to be genuinely better and to vote in favour of this objective? Then it is already rolled in for government negotiations, anyone there would be. Minister, the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area have presented:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u272	Congressman Lindtman, time is up. — — — — Ladies and gentlemen, when I see criticism there that there is not everyone speaking, I will say how many speeches have been made by groups: Centre 3, Coalition Party 2, sd 7, Green Group 4, Left 3, RKP 1 and KD 2 in this debate. — Reply, Chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u273	Mr President! The central position, if it remains unclear to anyone, is not quite one of that position, which is in that citizens' initiative. It therefore proposes a free second step throughout, the cost between EUR 100 million and EUR 150 million. Our election program, which I have been responsible for, is that we should bring the model of the right to education up to the age of 18 — the guidance forward to the folk high school, the workshop activity, so that until the age of 18 the right to education will remain and until then it will be free of charge, i.e. until the age of 18. So that is the position we are promoting in the elections and hopefully we will be able to promote it in the government after that. In my opinion, this young people's situation is now extremely good. It is rare that in ten weeks' time, directly after the citizens' initiative, all the parties in the country will be able to take a stand and this 20-year, more than that, the matter that has been in preparation will either be realised or left unfulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u274	I would like to give a reply to a member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, Mrs Eloranna, and then Mr Multala will appear on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u275	Thank you, Mr President. This citizens' initiative is indeed in order. It cannot be right that although the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and our constitutions safeguard the right of every child to education without fail, the cost of upper secondary school and vocational education can currently be excessively expensive for many young people. Indeed, one young person who stops his studies or exchanges because the costs are too expensive is too much. I would like to appeal to you colleagues. In other words, the opposition's protest really goes along with the word in the text of this citizens' initiative, and we all have the opportunity to make such a good forward-looking approach. And I hope that, when the vote comes in due course, you will be able to support this opposition's protest, all of you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u276	Mr President! It is good that, at last, it has gradually been possible to discuss the content. However, when there still seems to be some Members here to be unclear, why, and to what extent, this matter fell down in principle and what we might then have to change in this system of citizens' initiatives, I will now read straight out the answer to the question when, in a very specific way, I wanted to ask: This second-degree free-of-charge citizens' initiative does not include a legislative proposal but rather a proposal to undertake research and law-making. So if there had been any amendments to the section, the committee would have been able to amend it if it had wished, but the Committee on Citizens' Initiative, which was an initiative for action, could only propose that it be approved or rejected as such. That is why we have been talking here for the most part about these statements, as Mrs Puumala explained very well in her introductory speech to me, but there were still some misconceptions that what was at stake here. Mr President! Equality of opportunity is the cornerstone of Finnish education. According to the Constitution, the power must ensure that everyone has equal access to non-basic education in accordance with their abilities and specific needs, and that they develop themselves without prejudice to wealthlessness. So no one's training path can be broken because of a weak financial position, and that is what we in the public sector should stick to. The citizens' initiative now before us requires Parliament to carry out a comprehensive analysis of second-degree costs and take legislative measures to ensure that the second level is genuinely free of charge for everyone. At present, education in Finland is free of charge from primary to higher education. Students cannot be charged fees for education or denied the right to take part in education if there are no required learning materials. The worrying examples that participation in classes is prohibited if books have not been required are, in principle, unlawful situations that need to be addressed. The citizens' initiative raises important concerns. I think that the appreciation for the citizens' initiative is shown by the fact that we decided in the Committee on Education to take the initiative into consideration, to consult widely with experts and to draw up a report on this matter in order to get the matter under discussion in the large Chamber. In its report, the Committee on Education and Training unanimously makes two statements, one of which states that Parliament would require the Ministry of Education and Culture to ensure that guidance is drawn up for secondary education organisers, stressing the need to inform education organisers of the amount of study material costs estimated and of the means by which these costs can be covered or possibly avoided. Mr President! This government has already done a great deal about it. In order to reduce the cost of learning materials, a change in the Student Support Act has been approved in this Chamber, which allows for an educational material supplement for low-income families. In addition, pilots have been launched under the leadership of Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen to reduce the costs for students at a secondary level. It is quite amazing that university studies can in practice be done almost without or even completely without books but in high school they are still often required. The second statement of the committee requires the Government to monitor and evaluate the development of the costs of studies for secondary students, taking into account the study material supplement and the projects launched to reduce the cost of learning materials for students and, if necessary, to propose further measures. These pilots will give us experience during 2020, as well as the targeting of the educational material supplement. This appropriation for the study material supplement is an estimate allocation, i.e. it will be granted in practice as students coming within its scope become eligible. In other words, it may also cost more or less than the money allocated to it. As I have already said in my previous speech, what has been raised as a potential challenge with regard to the subject-matter supplement is that it is a monthly support in the context of study aid, where it may be possible to consider whether, during the start-up phase of studies, such as the purchase of a computer or the acquisition of professional equipment, it may still be challenging to be able to carry out this course at once, so at least on my own behalf, it is possible to consider whether this material supplement could be developed. Unfortunately, a lot of bad savings have also been made during this term of government. However, what has not been touched is comprehensive school. And I would hope that, now that we know how much of the primary school graduates do not achieve the knowledge and skills needed for the second stage, we could tackle this problem during the next term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u277	Mr President! Let it be clearly stated once again, that is, this citizens' initiative fell into opposition from the government parties, nothing else. Nor do we need any new explanations as to what it costs to study at secondary level, because it has already been clarified. Instead, what we would have needed as a basis for decision-making is an explanation of the way in which the second-degree freedom can be achieved, just as the citizens' initiative is presented by the citizens' initiative itself, and, contrary to what has been said here, this citizens' initiative is certainly not binding on any particular way of making the second-degree free of charge. There is no mention of extending compulsory school life, there is no mention of a particular method of purchasing, it merely asks the parties to commit themselves to the second-degree freeness of charge for all students, and this is clearly not possible for all parties in the Finnish Parliament. In Finland, we are used to pride ourselves on our education system and education, and the speech by Mr Multala once again spoke about how studying in Finland is free of charge at all levels of education. Well, the problem is, it's not. That is precisely why this citizens' initiative has been taken. In other Nordic countries, for example, students are required to pay for the study equipment and materials themselves — something that comes as a surprise to many families when they realize that these costs can reach up to thousands of euros throughout the educational path. In addition to this, I find it very strange, particularly in the upper secondary school sector, that the completion of the degree itself is also subject to a fee. In other words, both basic and experimental fees are charged for the completion of the matriculation examination, despite the fact that it is said that education in Finland is free of charge. Another strange thing is that students aged 18 or over, including at second grade, are expected to increase their student loans in full before they can receive income support. So, if we are talking about a low-income student, he should, in the opinion of society, raise thousands of euros in debt before it is possible to obtain social security for necessary expenses and a secondary degree. It seems to me that this too is something that many decision-makers are not aware of when they repeatedly hear speeches which, as it were, direct young people to the social service window. In my opinion, if we want to ensure that every young person in Finland completes a secondary degree, it should be possible to obtain social security at a secondary level without this requirement for raising a student loan in the case of a low-income student or a person from a low-income background. As has emerged from today's debate, there are differences of opinion. I myself would say that the main difference of opinion is this rather classic confrontation of viewpoints, where right-wing emphasis is placed on specific support measures for the poor. In other words, when the right-wing view is that money is used sensibly, it is used separately through support measures for the poor, whereas the left, especially when it comes to education policy, has also historically stressed the principle of universalism. And it is the principle of universalism that we have traditionally developed the education system in Finland, which means that we have free education for all in primary school, and I do not understand why extending this principle of free access to secondary school is such a strange idea for so many, when it works perfectly well in that primary school, and no one there chooses why these children of mountain counselors can go to comprehensive school free of charge. Then, as far as this model of the center is concerned, I am also wondering, in a sense, the logic of cutting it off as if it were 18 years old. So then we would be in a situation where schools, that is, the same body that decides what study materials are used, would also be responsible for their acquisition. It could be done with considerably larger volumes than what families can do, always buying the individual books or tools that are needed. But then this principle would suddenly be put to an end when the student turns 18, that is, if he is a high school student in four years, then he would himself buy for certain courses the books that all others receive through school. I don't understand logic in that model either. Instead of this principle of universalism, we have now been offered educational material by the government parties as a solution to this problem. Well, of course, you might think that every single additional euro that is prepared for too low student support is always welcome, and I do think that this material supplement, as it were, makes life a little easier for low-income students, because it does, however, bring a kind of monthly extra money for these everyday expenses. But the solution to this problem now before us is not working, for example because it has been targeted at a limited group. There is only one income limit, that is, if the parents’ income is exceeded by a few tens or hundreds, then the children will then lose 100 percent of the support. Above all, these costs of study materials tend to be high once and for all, since the support has now been divided into small amounts for each month. To conclude: in my opinion, this should not be an impossible task for a prosperous country such as Finland, where studies are highly valued and yet all parties say that they do not want any young people to lose their way of learning because of a lack of money. These beautiful speeches have already been heard
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u278	Mr President! In the debate, I already mentioned the message I received from upper secondary school students in Eastern Finland. Their president, Veera Ursin, wrote to me in his message: ‘The second level of pay would strengthen the equality of education and would be a clear message from society that each young person would complete at least asecond degree. We hope that Parliament will be able to contribute to raising the level of education through this initiative.” Veera ends her message to me by saying: ‘Youth and young people can cause e.g. exclusion, exhaustion and mental health problems. I'm sure no one wants this.” Mr President! I have talked to several young people about this and asked them to tell them why it is important to them. Young people stress that the prices of learning materials cause financial distress and stress for many young people and their families. There are also young people whose parents do not pay for secondary education at all. In this case, there is a high probability that, despite desire, school will not be completed. For those living in small towns in particular, the challenge is very often that you have to move away from home after studies or try to visit school from home several dozen kilometres away, which significantly increases the length of school day and causes additional costs and quickly makes it very hard to study. At the moment, the ability of young people to cope is already under test and fatigue is of concern when studying and growing up in themselves are a source of stress and concern. There are surprisingly many young people who miss out on high school courses, for example, just because they cannot afford expensive learning materials. Here's a direct quote from a high-school student, he wrote to me: "Your money has a lot of books to go on asking parents about their money,though I don't know if they're going to have any extra money. Often you have to turn to relatives when you simply cannot afford the necessary books. Usually, even by the beginning of the period, I have not been able to get all the books, so the first hours have to be done without a book, and many teachers do not like this. In this case, it is difficult and quite inefficient to carry out tasks and study in general. I get student support, but more than half of it goes to the bus card, and after you buy one more book, it doesn’t leave much of it for anything else and we’ll be broke for the rest of the month.” Here I would also like to read a message from a high school mother, which is a direct quote from the message I received: “To a large number of other low-income families, training young people is beginning to be impossible. Books are expensive and in upper secondary school they need to be bought in an average of six plus other study equipment for each period. Upper secondary school costs about EUR 2,000 for books, and even the computer is absolutely essential to get this on top of it. In the very first episode, I thought that my daughter’s high school visit had to be stopped when money was not enough even for the necessary living expenses. It is very embarrassing to ask relatives to help you with your daughter’s book costs, but without their help this would be impossible. I'm a lucky mother when my child has grandmas and grandpas and godparents who want and can help. Many have no family to help, and that would not be their job. Every time one episode of books has been collected, stress begins from the next period. I have two more younger children, and it may be that I encourage them to have cheaper options, even if they too have the desire and ability to go to high school to study. I don't know if any of the other options are cheaper, but it sucks that I even have to think like this. Yes, the second degree should be free for all young people. Aid for low-income students does not eliminate the fact that the cost of education affects the choice of education. This should not be the case. Subsidies for the poor do not sound good to me.” So I saw a high school mother with two more younger children waiting. The SDP is in favour of extending compulsory education to 18 years. It would be an excellent investment in the future and would ensure equal opportunities for all young people to choose the training path they want. On the other hand, extending compulsory education would not simply mean sitting on a school bench. It could also be work trial, preparatory training, workshop work, apprenticeship, even rehabilitation. The main thing is that action would be supportive and goal-oriented. Leaving a 16-year-old to his own devices is almost a waste of time. Mr President! There is also scientific evidence of the benefits of extending the compulsory education age. According to the Economic Policy Review Council, raising the compulsory education age to 18 would significantly increase the share of upper secondary education graduates in the age group and would bring significant benefits to the employment and income of the persons concerned. This is also reflected in the long-term improvement in the state of public finances. Increasing compulsory education would be a straightforward, well-targeted and cost-effective way of improving the labour market position of those excluded from education and training. It is a good thing that almost all parties, with the exception of the Coalition Party, seem to share this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u279	Mr President! It is a great achievement to have a citizens' initiative on this important issue before Parliament. All those who supported this initiative and also those who initiated it. The strength of the Finnish education and school system has traditionally been to offer the opportunity to train and obtain a degree for everyone despite their family background. The citizens' initiative argues that secondary education is free of charge, including through drop-out. Some of the suspensions have contributed to the decision. It's true. However, the range of causes behind the suspension is very wide. According to the Amisbarometri, student motivation, learning difficulties and well-being challenges are, according to students themselves, the most important reasons for considering dropping out of studies. The financial problems came to be seven, but they are also a major reason. We Finns have been very concerned about the impact on students of major educational cuts during this millennium. We are in favour of comprehensive reform of education, starting with basic education, based on the needs of students and students. For example, in the case of secondary education, we call for adequate local education, support for those with learning difficulties, enough small teaching groups, flexible school travel support and care for the mental and physical well-being of students.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u282	Mr President! At the latest, as indicated in the previous debate, the citizens' initiative did not fall off the ground in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, it fell on the opposition of the government parties. I think that Mr Puumala, the chairman of the Committee on Education, the representative of the Centre's parliament, has made the point of the centre's position quite clear. The Centre is in favour of a slightly different model, not the full content of the citizens' initiative. The assembly has its own basis. I don't know about blue right now. But in this context I want to give my enormous thanks and respect to the young people who have been taking this citizens' initiative forward. 53,000 signatures is no small thing. It requires a strong commitment, and that is why it was extremely regrettable that this formality was used so strongly at first, even as an excuse, and it sends out the wrong signal as to how Parliament hears the voice of the citizens. Many young people were watching this debate in the gallery today — some of them still seem to be there. I'm guessing there's a lot of people on the web who'll be here with us. Thank you for that. Today, young people also met in front of Parliament, on the steps of Parliament to protest, because this important citizens' initiative was rejected in the debate of the Committee on Culture. As it turned out, the initiative could have been promoted if the will had been there, and the evidence of will is this statement by the opposition — almost a united opposition, only the Finns of Finland — which goes along with the main content of this citizens' initiative, a free second stage for everyone. The objective of this citizens' initiative is absolutely commendable, as 15 per cent of young people in Finland have not completed secondary education by the age of 25. In addition, according to a survey by Save the Children's Association, the cost of secondary education has posed economic challenges for nearly 60 per cent of students. As is also known from statistics, they speak harshly of the fact that some have had to drop out of their studies for this reason. No wonder, for example, high school books may cost more than EUR 2,000 to a young person, and on top of this, of course, comes all normal hobby activities, social activities. At the same time, vocational schools already face challenges in terms of cuts of EUR 190 million and labour-intensive learning in the context of amisreform. This is difficult when local education is still cut, and now the situation becomes even more difficult when many learning materials cannot afford to be acquired. My sense of justice is that no one can be caught starting or completing their studies by the thickness of their parents’ wallet. In a civilised society, everyone must have the same opportunities to reach their full potential. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have discussed a great deal about the same subject that I was discussing with Sitra yesterday, among other things. Congressman Torstikin was on the scene. There was talk of lifelong learning, of continuous learning. The fact is that the future labour market will no longer succeed on a mere basic school basis. Every young person must be guaranteed a place in secondary education, and these studies must be made genuinely free of charge for every young person. Mr Gustafsson spoke earlier in this Chamber about the fact that the second level, free of charge, is even an investment. I would go a little further and say that the second level free of charge is even a austerity measure, because the costs are so expensive if people do not have the skills to work, in general life — so great are the costs. As such a small nation, Finland cannot afford to lose the full potential of any human being. Everything you can do is done to strengthen your skills. Knowledge is our greatest intellectual capital in this country. That is why I also say that free of charge is an investment that increases employment, improves the well-being of young people and prevents exclusion, increasing equality. Today, the matter has been discussed. Today is the day and tomorrow is the day of the vote. I, the Green Group and certainly most of the opposition will be voting in favour of this citizens' initiative. And at the very end of the day, I would like to point out that a lot of people who have not taken part in this initiative have raised the question of where those costs are coming from. Well, earlier today a lot of people have been watching in the gallery and waiting for this debate on this citizens' initiative, and some could also hear the discussion about the equity savings account, among other things. The share savings account represents a loss of tax revenue of EUR 160 million — a loss of tax revenue of EUR 160 million per year. That is why I would like to stress that the budget is always about value choices in the end, where we put the euro. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u283	Mr President! The completion of secondary education is very important both for young people's working life capacity and for further learning. If it is not possible to study for one reason or another, studies show that the risk of social exclusion for young people increases very significantly. Of course, this applies to all young people, but according to statistics and practical observations, Finnish boys are at the greatest risk of exclusion. Mr President! In addition to educational material costs, costs include school trips and housing costs, especially if a young person has to move after studies to another locality. Moving out of a child’s home is not easy otherwise, let alone if financial resources are scarce, and unfortunately many of them are. We Finns want to invest resources in quality education that is available to all willing people close enough to home. Of course, this also requires a sufficiently dense upper secondary and vocational school network. Mr President! True Finns have often highlighted the importance of upper secondary schools and vocational schools operating in small localities, and we have also proposed appropriations for this purpose. Last time we did this in the autumn budget reading. This issue of the school network should also be taken seriously in the Government Programme, which will be drawn up this spring. Mr President! As Mrs Elomaa has just stated in her statement, the next government must also ensure that the cost of upper secondary education does not prevent any young Finnish youth from completing a secondary degree. The future government must also report to Parliament on this matter by the end of this year. Mr President! In these words, I support the statement made by Mrs Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u284	Madam President! The present citizens' initiative has been in preparation for a long time, and we will be able to reach a point before the end of the period to go through and deal with it. The initiative has been signed by more than 50,000 citizens, and Finnish young people in many different ways and in many different contexts have insisted that Finland should have a truly free upper secondary school and vocational education for all on an equal footing. Today, at noon, we again witnessed the wonderful activity of young people in demonstrating their support for the initiative. The initiative states that, according to Article 16 of the Constitution, public authorities must ensure that everyone has equal access to non-basic education in accordance with their abilities and specific needs and develop themselves without prejudice to wealth. All young people must therefore be guaranteed equal access to secondary education. Today, that right will not come true. The Civilization Committee rejected the initiative by the government parties and the Finns, claiming a formal error. I am no longer going to go into this matter in detail — it has been very much talked about in this Chamber — but it should be noted that it would have been perfectly possible to adopt and give this statement by Mr Torst, and it is becoming clear that it is now mainly a question of running away from responsibility. The SDP has long called for the extension of compulsory education to secondary level and the conversion of education to free of charge. Vocational and upper secondary school education has become today's comprehensive school. The statistics harshly show that only those who depend on comprehensive school have a career of less than 25 years, whereas today it is up to 47 years. In the future, the need will probably be even greater. There are currently 70,000 marginalised young people in Finland. I am really concerned that we are losing an entire generation at the same time as the mental health and substance abuse problems of children and young people are increasing. Exclusion from secondary education entails enormous human and social costs. Studies show that the unfinished learning path is linked to unemployment, poverty, mental health problems and even crime. According to the Economic Policy Review Council, raising the compulsory education age to 18 would significantly increase the share of secondary graduates in the age group. Can we really afford not to invest in the well-being and education of children and young people? Over the past four years, the cuts to education have been incomprehensible, almost EUR 1 billion. The most severe cuts have been directed at secondary education, vocational education and training at the top of the cut list. In this Chamber, too, it has often been said that education is free of charge in Finland. Is that really so? Today, high school textbooks cost thousands of euros. There's a major business going around them. Books change at a fast pace, and recycling only helps some young people. Over the years, the situation has not changed for the better. On the vocational education and training side, different tools, accessories and fees can also reach thousands of euros. Indeed, we cannot say that we live in a civilised state when many young people have to rely on debt and income support to cope with the costs of living and learning. Mr President! We cannot close our eyes to the fact that political decision-making is currently destroying the conditions for the well-being of our young people and cutting off the wings from the dreams and dreams of the future of young people. We need all young people to join us in building a future Finland. Our society must offer them all equal opportunities to build their own path to responsible and balanced adulthood. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all young people have access to secondary education. The socio-economic background of parents must not be a barrier. In addition, adequate student guidance and student care must be ensured so that as many young people as possible can also complete a degree. Unlike the government parties, the SDP does not want to divide young people and their families into two castes according to their parents ’ wealth. We need reform of the school world. Secondary compulsory education and free of charge is everyone's right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u285	Mr President! Thank you again for this citizens' initiative to the preparatory bodies and all the signatories. For me and the city centre, training of any young person must not depend on the wealth or place of residence of him and his family. The right to education belongs to everyone. From the point of view of equal education, what is most important right now is what the report of the Committee on Education and Rural Development and its statements state in terms of content. We call on the government to explain how much the costs of secondary education have increased, what the real costs are, and that the government must take action on this basis and, if necessary, propose further measures to remedy the problems, legislation or budget money. This is an excellent basis for future government negotiations, which will decide how to proceed. Indeed, according to the rough estimate received by the Committee on Education, the size of the measure is between 109 and 153 million. The minister just brought in the latest estimate, which was a little smaller. There has been no precise calculation of the total cost of genuinely free secondary education, and it is therefore necessary to clarify this in detail. This citizens' initiative by the organisations has been a very important source of debate. This has given rise to genuine concern about how the costs affect or even prevent upper secondary school or vocational education from studying. And I think it is a very big problem if the choice of education is to be made in advance, considering the costs. This must not, therefore, stop here; further measures are needed. The most important thing is to reduce exclusion and ensure equal access to education for all. As has often been said this evening, the Centre has proposed raising compulsory education from the present 17 to 18 years of age. In the model of the city centre, studies would be free of charge until the age of 18. The aim of the centre is also to strengthen the early part of the school path, the school for young children, as we call the first class and the first-two — this because everyone is sufficiently prepared to proceed to the second stage, and this is because there are no interruptions there. There have been many calls in this Chamber for good lawmaking and good clarification. I hope that you will also draw attention to the fact that an assessment of the impact on children has been included in the statement. We therefore need an in-depth study, as requested by the citizens' initiative, and measures to that end, just as the citizens' initiative called for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u286	Madam President! Firstly, we in the Left Alliance are in favour of Mrs Turst's excellent proposal. However, when dealing with these citizens' initiatives and dealing with them here in Parliament, it is such a sacred thing of democracy, which should be handled properly and not interfere with such formalities. In my view, the fall of this initiative in terms of technicalities is also important for how young people see how we deal with matters here. I was wondering what kind of image it gives of democracy. Are we, as representatives of democracy here, such bureaucratic slaves, that we take every form and cannot accept these young people's influences? On the contrary, we should have been flexible. After all, this government has called for flexible measures, and now to overthrow and block this initiative in precisely this way, this whole reading here in Parliament and in this big Chamber, is, in my opinion, a bad way to set an example for young people, how democracy and this sort of flexible system works. As far as this secondary education is concerned and its value is concerned, we know this fact that Finland is a very much unequal country. We have families who are looking for bread and food bags in the food line for the continuation of their own family, when the money is not enough otherwise. There are also housing and other expenses on top of that. And when you think about the right of children to go to school, the cost of going to high school is, I think, 2,500 euros a year, which comes from it. It's a pretty big threshold for this kind of family to get their own kids trained in a good profession. Looking at this current situation, we have such 70,000 young people under 30 without secondary education. It tells us how many people are excluded and excluded from society without the opportunity to study for themselves a secondary degree and a profession, with which to get along and do the good work with which to bring it into this society. It is estimated that the cost of these 70,000 uneducated young people is about EUR 1.4 billion. If you think about the educational costs that will be, then they are only 10 percent of this amount, and compared to that, the cost of teaching is cheap, and when you think about what would come through that education — how to get a profession and produce income for this society — it turns into a positive thing. It is therefore better to move forward with this secondary education as a whole, free of charge. The fact that it is tied to an age limit does not make sense to me. The better thing is that education is carried out in such a way that the subject and the degree will be completed in full, and so we will have more professionals in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u287	Mr President! “In Finland, everyone has a family background and A young person should not have to choose his secondary education place according to the financial conditions of his or her family. At the age of 15, you should not have to give up your dreams.” That is what has been written in this committee report, but unfortunately we know that this is not the case today for everyone. One important reason is the economic cost and the high cost of learning material, which is what the second level is, and that is why not every young person in this country can choose the place of education he would like, because it is too expensive. We also know that every fourth suspension has been affected by a poor financial situation. Finland's success has always been based on investing in education, and we know that today, on the basis of comprehensive school alone, you cannot manage. In practice, a secondary degree is a necessity both for the young person's own future and for the future of our nation as a whole, and that is why a free second degree is the direction we need to go. That is why the Greens are in favour of a free second step and this initiative. At present, 15% have not completed secondary education by the age of 25, and we know that these young people are at risk of marginalisation and are at risk of not getting a job and not being able to earn their own income, and that is a great loss for society as a whole. Today we have already talked about how this citizens' initiative has been dealt with. I do indeed find it embarrassing the way in which the government parties have wanted to hide behind the technicalities, and I would hope that tomorrow, when this initiative is voted on, those parties that genuinely support the second stage free of charge and understand the importance of its universality will vote in favour of this protest, which the opposition parties — the SDP, the Greens, the Left, the RKP — have made and which the KD has also shown its support for. Well, of course, it is clear that the free second level alone is not yet sufficient when it comes to quality education and ensuring that we ensure the competence of all Finns, a sufficiently high level of education so that we can succeed globally. Next season we will have to make significant investments in education from the very beginning, from early childhood education. We must ensure that comprehensive school is of high quality, that every young person who has completed it is able to complete secondary education, and that everyone then has the opportunity to continue in higher education. We must also invest in research. All in all, we need a billion-dollar investment in education in order to maintain Finland's skills, and that is what we Greens want to take forward. But, as has been said, the fact that today we have a secondary degree is a necessity, and that is why we cannot leave any young people at risk of falling out of it or not being able to choose the second degree because of the financial situation of the family. I myself come from Eastern Finland, and we know that there are many young people in Eastern Finland, especially boys who do not have secondary education. For them, one of the thresholds for leaving the home is the financial costs of the second degree, and not necessarily from home. And in order to overcome the obstacles that we can overcome, the fact that the second stage is genuinely free of charge also in terms of teaching materials and other costs is the least we can do here so that we can take care of the future both of our young people and of our nation as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u288	Madam President! Finnish society has chosen the so-called welfare society model as a form of society serving its citizens. To finance this welfare society, a progressive wage taxation system has been chosen, including corporate taxation for businesses and communities. In addition to this, our other tax base is very broad and our overall tax rate is one of the highest in the world. That is why we have chosen this model of society, this model of financing high taxation, also has the right of citizens to expect a tax refund through access to services. Basic services are, in a way, a tax refund that citizens have the right to expect. One of these services is free education. We pay it with our taxes, and there is a right to expect us to get it back in some way. It is therefore a matter of interest in tax and tax law that people with good income also have the same right to expect free education. After all, it would be a bit unreasonable for a well-paid person to pay for the education of a low-income child and then for his own child to pay the education fee. Of course, this can be done if it is agreed, but if you look at it in tax law, it is a rather perverse situation, that you have to pay for the child next door and then you have to have your own child on top of it. Mr President! Education is an investment in society to safeguard the well-being and tax revenues of the future. So it's not charity, it's a free second, it's a cold economic realism. How much does it cost society to not be able to get an education even if you want to because the family is poor? Only those who have completed comprehensive school give public finances an average additional cost of around EUR 370000 in their lifetime compared to those who have received education. At the moment, economic growth is halting because we do not have enough skilled labour. According to the Youth Barometer 2017, 17 per cent of respondents reported having to reduce their study options due to lack of money, 14 per cent to choose a place of education on economic grounds and 11 per cent to delay their graduation. Ten per cent of those who dropped out of education consider that the lack of money had a major or rather significant impact on the drop-out. In the Children's Voice 2018 survey, Save the Children's Voice, nearly one-quarter, 24.2% of children in deprived families estimated that economic factors affected their ability to attend school. The cost of training is low compared to not being trained. At present, 16% of the population aged 20 to 29 depend on comprehensive school. They're going to need a lot of social support during their lives. This is going to cost society a lot of money. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The free second level is definitely what we should go towards. It must be done through this study, which shows the real costs and effects, and for that I thank the young people who have taken up the citizens' initiative, that they did get the whole Parliament to wake up and take a stand on this issue. And certainly this will also be a matter of government programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u289	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the young people once again, who have brought about the citizens' initiative. It is certainly no small matter, not to mention the fact that more than 53,000 votes have been collected. Congratulations on that. As I said earlier in the evening, I signed the citizens' initiative well in its early stages and I am definitely in favour of a second-degree free-of-charge approach. I would like to raise some points here already a few years ago: After comprehensive school, a young person who leaves school is easily driven into a spiral of exclusion, as we know and know very well. In today's work, at least secondary education is almost essential. If we think about the time 10 to 20 years ago, we had much more jobs, which could have been enough for primary school only, but the situation today is quite different. Secondary education is almost a necessity. Therefore, each young person must be able to complete at least a secondary degree. However, upper secondary school and vocational education have become increasingly expensive for students, as many have said this evening. In vocational education, students are also required to acquire expensive materials, machines and equipment. For high school students, books are expensive. The total cost of completing upper secondary school is up to EUR 2,600, and it has been said that the cost of some vocational qualifications may be even higher. The acquisition of study material is very challenging for many low-income families, especially if there are several children. Care must be taken not to interrupt or hinder the study of children of deprived families, such as single-parent and multi-child families, because the funds are not sufficient for the necessary equipment to study. Many youths may find it difficult to say out loud the real reasons behind the problems. It is easier just to leave school than to apply for support for the purchase of compulsory study material. According to the Save the Children’s Association, it is the lack of money that is a major obstacle to education. According to the organization, as many as one in four drop-outs of upper secondary education have been affected by the lack of money in their studies. Of Finnish children under 18 years of age, over 100,000 belong to a low-income family. In these thoughts I was in fact already in September 2017 when I asked the ministers to answer the question and specifically asked them what measures the government would take to reduce the interruptions in secondary education and what the government would do to reduce the cost of acquiring secondary education material for the student. Well, we know that the government has introduced this material supplement and this change would come into effect on 1.8., but that less than EUR 50 per month is certainly not the answer to many things, because we know that it is often at the beginning of education and at the beginning of courses that you have to make larger purchases at once. At that time, I was still asking whether the government intends to take action, so that no one in Finland has to stop secondary education because there is no financial opportunity to acquire the necessary study material, and I also asked the question of promoting the second-degree free-of-charge. Therefore, when this citizens' initiative came, it was self-evident that I would support it and I would like to be there to take it forward. In Sweden, Norway and Denmark, secondary students do not pay for textbooks or learning materials. In addition, the level of upper secondary education allowance is higher, less need-tested and no student loan is granted to minors. In other words, with this second degree free of charge, we would finally be joining the other Nordic countries. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs would well have been able to make a joint statement which would have supported this citizens’ initiative if they had wanted to do so, but there is a proposal for a statement in the protest: ‘The Commission will require a group of citizens to prepare a detailed report and a series of necessary measures and legislativereforms in order toremove the feeability of studies. “ That is the proposal for a statement of objection, which I too warmly support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u290	Madam President! At the end of this debate, I took another floor to say a few words to the colleagues and finally to those who took the initiative, both children's organisations and student organisations. However, I would like to begin by saying that this debate has included so many aspects that we could do so until tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and that reflects the need for this study. I have at least tried to open these in blogs, and we have also been experimenting in Helsinki, and when they are also opposed, I have also tried to open up issues in my blog as to why some experiments might be opposed for no reason. But let's not go into this. However, ladies and gentlemen, the starting point for this debate has now been very clear that this initiative has just opened up a little further ground for the possibility of moving towards a free second stage, which everyone seems to want to support here in some way. As Mr Andersson has very well explained, we may not so much need a different calculation of the costs — they have been made — but of the implementation models, because they are quite concretely exhausted and we would have liked to support the forthcoming government programme negotiations, whoever they are. It has become clear that the centre in some way, perhaps with a little different terminology, is more or less in favour of being free until the age of 18. I do not know what they are in favour of at that point if a person is 20 years old and has been in between for a couple of years so that he cannot attend school. But what happens next will probably survive. It has also become clear that the coalition is indeed in favour of targeted, and that is not surprising at all. It is quite logical: since primary school the education policy line of the Coalition Party has been different from that of this kind to the universal basis, and in that sense it has also been highlighted here. Unfortunately, with regard to this study material supplement, we must say that we did not hear any experts in the committee which would have been so keen to support it. Of course, student organisations do not take a negative view of it now, because it makes an acute improvement in the situation of some, but it brings these monthly figures problems, and Kela made very critical speeches and so on. However, if you think of these initiatives, of which many minors, who could not even sign themselves, went through a huge amount of trouble and did a democratic act, then perhaps I would have liked to have heard more from the centre here about government cooperation, working in a group and things that are part of representative democracy and which perhaps are better understood than the rather vague speech that was not necessarily made sense now as regards what has been advocated and what is not supported. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, whom we have all thanked here, perhaps the best news here is that this debate has shown that you will be on the right side of history. Representative Tanus here described his actions in recent years. It may have been about five years since this compulsory education debate took place in the previous government. At the time the SDP was driving it, the Left Alliance supported it and others were not exactly in line with it. This whole period has been on the agenda and more expert and research information has been brought here, and experts, researchers, organisations and various parties have gradually come to the fore. This sounds just like what happened with elementary school a few decades ago to a person of such a historical background. So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, when the question has been asked whether this is going to be something of an election act, I think it has been perhaps the most extraordinary debate. This has been a process of years, and it has also been done by those who have taken the initiative in very long trees, so to speak. The fact that this is the very point of the debate is an entirely different coincidence, and the good thing is that it really does make this an election issue. It used to be an elementary school, and that too became true after extensive preparation, and the rest is some kind of fine Finnish history. So you have been starting and making this history a little further. Tomorrow we will vote for one pole, but this will move forward. This debate, too, has actually convinced me of it. Let's continue with the common front and bring everyone along for a little while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u291	Mr President! Just a few words from my seat. Someone here claimed that I claimed that studying was free of charge. I was talking about the freeness of teaching at the time, which means that we have free education from comprehensive school to university. Perhaps a few more comments on this. It may well be that Mr Torsti is right that this will happen. I have said here many times in the past that we are not opposed to this principle either, but that it is a question of what priorities will be prioritised during the next term of government and to what extent. It has now become quite clear here that, in fact, there are not very many parties here who would speak entirely of the free second stage. The multiparty line is for that until the age of 18. In other words, it means that some of it will still have to be paid for, or at least this is what I think this debate has sounded like, at least for some parties. In this context, it has to be said that various parties are now being asked to make various promises, not only on education but also on other matters. It is quite clear that many parties are now ready to make those promises now that they are listening to the speeches. However, it may still have to be said that, in any event, when we know that the current employment rate will not be able to cover future expenditure, we must first of all agree on the means, that is, major structural changes, which will enable us to raise employment to that 75% and beyond. In the long term, the employment rate of almost 80% in practice only means that we would be able to make additions to our current spending framework on a large scale. This is always worth remembering that this is the realism we are talking about when we sit there in the government negotiations — hopefully, at least this is what I think. In other words, this will have to be twisted in the next government negotiations, and it is not in any way clear that any increase in expenditure that each party, as it were, is now making a little bit of a promise here, would be an open call, but everyone has their own priorities, as it were, and then we can be satisfied with what we are doing. But, as I have already said, I think it is absolutely reasonable to consider whether there is something to be developed in this study material supplement. It has to be said that this is not a discretionary advantage in that way, but it comes automatically to everyone, so there is no unequal effect in this sense that you need to do something about it individually or otherwise. I think that's good. But absolutely, surely there is something to be developed in that too. However, the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Protection has unanimously stated that it is still necessary to assess whether it is still our job to increase the number of young people's school trails that will not be interrupted in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u292	Mr President! Finally, the actions of this government have produced good results as the proportion of young people outside work and education has fallen clearly. The share of young people without a qualification after comprehensive school is decreasing and the employment of young people is improving. Almost all primary school graduates apply for education, and there are educational places available for the entire age group, but indeed the proportion of those aged 20 to 24 without a secondary degree is still considerable, although the trend has been declining. But in the same context, it can be said that not all the so-called NEETs are excluded. Some of them, for example, are waiting for study or military service to begin. We have had quite a good debate here tonight. It seems that the objective — the right to education belongs to everyone — is shared, but the means for achieving it vary slightly. I wonder whether the opposition is really going to be against the report when, however, a study is being carried out in accordance with the requirements of the citizens' initiative and what follow-up measures are required, just as this citizens' initiative requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u293	Mr President! At that point in my own ear there was someone’s argument that the Finns of Peru voted in this matter with the government front. That is not true; we have left a reservation in our own position, and this position has now been put forward by Mrs Elomaa in this sitting. We have our own statement and our own line. Education is important and primary support for those who cannot afford to study at secondary level is essential. That is, of course, the most important thing, but other matters also need to be clarified. And now that we are talking about secondary education, I would also like to point out that there is a need for more resources for vocational training, because today, in practice, in many cases, there are no ready-made professionals from vocational schools. Personally, I am not a member of the Committee on Culture, and now that I compare these reports by the committee and their proposals for statements with this opposition statement, these differences are very superficial. In actual fact, those differences are only that the left-wing opposition is more direct in saying that we should move to full free of charge without determining what it means, whereas the committee itself, in its apparently unanimous statement — hardly the opposition itself, is opposed to this in itself — is clarifying these issues and whether they will result in more freedom of payment, but they can also lead to more transparency. In that sense, I am a little surprised at the tone of the debate, because it is, however, a matter of importance to us all. Surely, when everyone in this Chamber feels that education is important, why do we have to make this kind of party-political government-oppositional arrangement? I don't quite understand that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u294	Madam President! I asked to speak again when Mr Torsti mentioned my name in that speech. Indeed, I have acted and spoken in favour of promoting secondary education much earlier, but the reason why I asked the Minister these questions less than a few years ago is, of course, because I am now in my first position as a Member of Parliament and it was only then, during this period, that I could seize this element and make use of it. But I would like to point out here that not only is the freedom of secondary school and its promotion, equal access to education for all, but, of course, we also need to work towards sufficient resources and good study conditions, that is to say, there are enough teachers and sufficient guidance there. There must also be support for students with special needs, student care and so on, in other words, sufficient resources must be made available for schools. But what I have talked about a lot over the past four years is also the basic prerequisites for further studies, both in primary and secondary schools. We have far too many students to name, far too many children and young people who do not get enough basic skills, namely good arithmetic, reading and writing skills, and I find it very alarming to note that the Pisa results have been very good in Finland and that the reform of comprehensive school has been excellent throughout the country. With the Committee on the Future, when we were on our way to South America, we told them about our primary school system — a huge amount of this and export opportunities too. But what has happened in our schools when we have a significant number of primary school graduates who cannot properly read, calculate and write? I have also made this appeal to the Minister for Education that, in my opinion, it is the duty of both teachers and parents, as well as of us adults, to ensure that every young person who decides on a comprehensive school in Finland can do well or at least reasonably well and to read, read and write, because without these basic skills he cannot move forward in his studies or working life. Of course, many other skills are important, important are digital skills and so on, but these basic elements we need to pay much more attention to and ensure that every child and young person learns these basic skills properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u295	Mr President! Perhaps a few more clarifications on the previous speeches. First of all, the opposition is not against the report, but the opposition is bringing in a proposal for a statement that has been lacking there and, indeed, if there are representatives here who were not in the Committee on Culture, Education and the Media, those who were involved in the Committee on Culture know that the committee's rather united view was that this initiative was worthy of unanimity until the end of the debate. And I told you in my first speech that it is the most sad thing for me that this did not happen, because it would have been the right democratic message, and it would have been the right one, because this initiative was very well formulated. It did not propose an immediate transition to a free second stage, but rather a careful study and a well thought-out proposal. Since this was the explicit content of the initiative, it was appropriate that it should also be accepted by the very same wording, if that is the case, and the government parties were not prepared to do this. I do not have the opportunity to judge what the internal debate was, but perhaps even in this Chamber many people have been able to determine what it has been and that there have been differences of opinion there, and that is, of course, part of politics. But this is kind of the background. To be consistent with those who take the initiative, and if you are on the side of something, then you are also on the side of the wording. And what will be for has indeed been repeated here many times, and I will not repeat it again. But then to Mrs Parviainen about these NEETs: Perhaps I would like to see a background in the debate that it is not this and it was not the previous government, but perhaps more we would now analyse what measures have been effective. On the basis of a long analysis carried out in Finland during the previous government term, the first steps were taken to the Youth Guarantee, where one of the most successful things might have been to move training places from where there are no young people to where they are. Not everyone was in favour of that either, but it seems to have worked, and that is, as the availability of training places improved, especially in urban areas, the number of people excluded from training actually decreased. But there are many other analyses, and at least for the moment I agree with the information I myself have, as I have been following this subject for ten years, according to the Me Foundation's assessment of Ulla Nord, that for about ten years we have worked quite extensively with young people's problem of exclusion and now we are beginning to see some influences — good. And so that we now find exactly what they have been, it will continue. But interestingly, it would seem that, for example, this month of education — which was not a specific measure for one group but for the whole age group — had a significant impact. But this needs more information and, of course, even if we all take pride in the election debates, this is a single thing in which I would like us to have a bit of a comitology approach for everyone and to rely on and apply for it in a somewhat longer period of time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u296	Mr President! In fact, Mr Torsti said this, which is why I have taken the floor to correct the misunderstanding that the opposition parties who have tabled this own motion for a statement, which is in agreement with the substance of this citizens' initiative, are now in some way opposed to this report. It's not like that. It's just an addition to the statement that we should go along with it. Secondly, I am not in the Committee on Culture, but, contrary to what Mr Mäkelä has said, I think that there is quite a difference in these proposals when one of them explains the costs — on the one hand, it is required that the costs of teaching material be informed in advance, and then the development of costs be monitored and evaluated — and, on the other hand, it is already intended that studies should be carried out on the various models of how this second free level can be achieved. Of course, decisions on this too will then be left to the next government, whether or not to put a model into practice and move forward. But I can see that we have an explanation of how it can be implemented as extremely valuable, because, as has been well mentioned here this evening, this is a debate that will continue. As a result, the faster we have the clear options, how we can move forward, the easier it will be for decision-makers and parties to assess what kind of model to take forward if we want to move forward. And, as has now become clear, apparently now the coalition does not want to go any further and some parties have their own models, but apparently there are still no in-depth studies of their costs and effectiveness and so on, and that is why, in line with the content of this citizens' initiative, these studies should now be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u297	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 35/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u298	Mr President! At a late stage of the evening, I saw its next and very positive law, namely the FSHS Act. This is a very happy day for college students when the long-awaited FSHS law is finally here at the gym. This is indeed what student organisations have long been waiting for. In the past years, when the preparations for the reform of social services started, consideration was given to the organisation of the health care of the Schools of higher education students: how should this be organised in the context of the social welfare model? In the course of the debate, it gradually became clear that, when, as we know, the war is huge and years of reform, the position of student organisations and many experts was that the CSDS should continue its good work in its present form. The FSHS is a very well-functioning entity and even an excellent example for basic health care. It is, as I think I have said before here, a kind of health maintenance organisation, as Americans tend to say. The FSH has an excellent patient information system. Its offices are usually close to universities, but at the same time it is a national service. FSHS invests a great deal in preventive and health-promoting activities. FSHS has also passed basic health care by investing in important mental health work for students, which is really important for the good conduct of studies. In addition to maintaining the FSHS, these considerations also highlighted the strong need to bring students of universities of applied sciences into the scope of the FSHS. This meant the need for additional resources, so it slowed down the preparation process. It has now been very successful in reaching this goal that students of polytechnics will also be included in the services of FSHS, and it is great that the funds needed for this were found. The proposed FSHS organisation solution is clear and good. In other words, Kela is the organiser and FSHS is the national producer. After all, the Social Insurance Institution already plays a very important role in financing the activities of the FSHS. According to this new law, the funding will therefore take the form of a contribution from Kela, the State, on the one hand, and the share of students, on the other hand, in the form of an annual health care fee. There are no access fees, and the current urban funding fees are also excluded. In other respects, therefore, higher education students within the scope of the CSFS may also be fully normal in the area of social services in the province, i.e. other public services, such as other specialised medical care and social services. The basic services of the FSHS now include preventive work and medical care, including mental health and substance abuse work, sexual health promotion and oral health care. When promoting and supporting mental health, as I have already said, is one of the priorities of student health care, it is great that, in addition to basic services, in this law, it has also been possible to include early identification of students' special needs for support and research, and, if necessary, guidance on further research and treatment, as well as the treatment and opinion required to guide them to psychotherapy. That is what I referred to earlier. The change in the activities of the FSH with this law is therefore a significant extension of its activities. There will be a lot of offices and a lot more customers. Indeed, many new localities and students will be covered by the services provided by the FSHS. Therefore, the CSDS needs all possible support in further planning and implementation. It is good that the accompanying laws also state how the student unions of the matriculation schools and polytechnics should participate, as appropriate, in the implementation of the prescribed tasks in the field of student health care. And it is also good that under this law a college student advisory board is set up in which the various stakeholders monitor and guide the implementation of the tasks of the FSHS, with a view to promoting them in various ways. All in all, Mr President, it is great that the long-awaited reform is now coming about. The committee heard a lot of experts and dealt with the matter in a variety of ways. A good basis for reform is the fact that the committee's report is unanimous, and that is how the articles of the law can probably now be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u299	Mr President! There are a number of legislative proposals today that represent the positive side of things that can be remembered to promote from government times. This is such a presentation — a nice thing about education policy for once in this Chamber. Now that polytechnic students have access to the same kind of services as university students, it is a step forward and a very natural step forward in that, once these institutions have been combined and are already working together, so now also in the field of health care. This involves the fact that, when these educational promises were made in the run-up to the last election — many politicians have later ended up with their pictures in the light of perhaps a little negative — then my own education vows are now at least 50% realised. So one of those objectives is now in the process of being realised by this FSHS. From the point of view of the future, I would challenge the government and the future government to consider how to improve health care services for students in vocational schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u300	Mr President! Indeed, this is a day of joy and happiness for us to move on to this now, for students in higher education to have access to the same health care. This means that the number of students covered by the services more than doubles, and this means a considerable need for the CSFS to expand its activities. In addition to the increase in the number of students, this need for services can be influenced by the accumulation of hidden care for polytechnic students, which can increase demand for services at least in the initial phase of the reform. In that committee hearing, we learned that this latent need for treatment is supposed to be particularly true in the case of dental care. Increasing service production requires the availability of professional staff in the study areas and adequate resources for operations. That is what we in the Committee on Culture and Education made a motion for a statement which, however, did not move forward with that final report, namely that this reform and its impact on the achievement of regional equality and on the adequacy of resources should be monitored and reported to Parliament by the end of the next parliamentary term. But this is something that the representatives of the next period will then have to ensure that the resources are sufficient, because now, at this very early stage, it really is the need for care that has been constrained there can be an increase in services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u301	Mr President! Also, like Mr Mäkelä, I must agree with the above comments that this legislative reform, in which students of the university of applied sciences will be able to access the quite comprehensive services of the Finnish School of Applied Sciences, is a very positive and well-supported reform. And congratulations also to Mr Mäkelä for the fact that the educational promises you made before the last election now seem to be coming true. I don't think anyone here in Parliament wants to resist that. Such a small but even more important reform is an example of the way in which, for example, social reform, which is now heavily in crisis, should have been carried forward — by small steps, not by huge, big, big leaps, as we are now trying to do. When the next decision-makers elected here in Parliament will certainly have a task, if the social reform is not before them, at least a social reform, then I hope that we will try to eat that elephant in small pieces. To conclude, these services are indeed tailored to students and, as the number of users of this service is now more than doubled, it is, of course, also a cost-effective way of working. Among other things, the mental health services provided by students by the FSHS are so tailored for students that they are certainly of great benefit and help to many in life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u302	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 9/2018 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 22 February 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u303	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to reject the bill contained in the citizens' initiative. Parliament's statement is now decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u304	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u305	Mr President! After all, this has been the legislative proposal that has been expected, to which I have already taken the view in the referral debate that this is all to be welcomed, except that it is somewhat limited in content and responds mainly to that security policy need rather than to the need to protect soil or water or other national property, and, of course, that it came rather late in the final stages of the regime and perhaps had doubts that it would ever come from there. However, it has now been discussed by the committees, the report is ready and progresses. For the rest of the report as such, apart from the fact that in that opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I found that ‘the committee welcomes the recognition in the government’s proposal of the importance of international investment for the national economy. “ ‘The aim is also that the change in the law does not unnecessarily undermine the willingness “ I am particularly surprised by this last sentence and by who has got it there, because this debate has also started in the south-east and eastern Finland where these cottage shops were made at the time, and that is why this debate came mainly to the surface and, under the guise of their cottage shops, these defence-important properties have also been acquired, at least in some cases or at least attempted to acquire them. So I am surprised, which is why it would be considered a good idea to have those holiday homes. Although this debate is not on the surface at the moment, it is still under the surface and may become topical again in another world situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u306	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-26-ps-165.u307	Mr President! It is quite similar to a few previous legislative proposals — that is, one that has long been expected, whose progress is a good thing in itself, and whose bad side is that, in substance, although taking the matter in a better direction, it is still reasonably inadequate and comes at a reasonable late stage. But now it's moving forward. It is a perfectly legal proposal in itself that this first-time nature does not recur as quickly as before, but, of course, the fact that it is renewed in five years' time is quite incomprehensible to the ordinary person's sense of justice: how can a criminal who has suffered his sentence in prison be first-time offender in five years' time? Here, too, there is room for improvement for the next government.
