ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u1	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Representatives Sanna Marin and 89 other representatives have tabled a question on the state of care for the elderly on VK 3/2018. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u2	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u3	Madam President! This is an amendment to the Aliens Act, which has been dealt with unanimously in committee. These changes are to be welcomed. There are two issues here: one concerns the procedures for redress in the case of visas; the other concerns the DNA survey, mainly in the case of family reunification. I would now like to draw attention to the fact that it is proposed that the person concerned should be able to take a sample of the oral mucosa for the purposes of the DNA examination under the supervision of the official. In other words, there would no longer be a need for a health professional to take this sample. A similar practice is also used in paternity studies in Finland, which means that the health care professional is no longer used in it, and the person himself under the supervision of the child supervisor can take this sample. This is all to be welcomed, because this is both an attempt to achieve cost savings and to streamline the functioning of the Finnish Immigration Service and delegations. I would now like to draw attention to the fact that the aim here is also to reduce the processing periods for residence permits applied for on the basis of family ties. I myself went to the website of the Finnish Immigration Service today to test what, under certain conditions, would be the time for family reunification, and that is about 10 months, which is far too long in view of the situation in these families. Whether it is a negative or a positive decision, the time for processing is well above what is intended.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u4	Mr President! Indeed, this amendment to the Aliens Act is a matter of converting the search for redress from the Finnish diplomatic mission to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in these decisions to refuse and revoke the visa and a decision to revoke the visa which has not been taken at the request of the visa holder. The law would also change the sampling of DNA to the effect that a person would make a DNA sample of a family connection under the supervision of Migri himself, the Finnish Immigration Service, or an official of the Foreign Service, and would no longer need this health care professional, nor would the place be regulated. The change would then apply to samples taken both here in Finland and abroad. This proposal of the Aliens Act is to be welcomed and good, and it may also speed up these search processes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u5	Mr President! Foreign law is an important part of our immigration policy. Last week, the Audit Committee finalised and also submitted to Parliament a report on the need for change in our integration policy, and one can say that this issue of speeding up the process and reducing red tape is absolutely essential. The same thing that is happening here is very much about our integration policy and also about the reception of asylum seekers. People are now kept in uncertainty for too long, are used to living on social security, and so, if asylum has been obtained, this beginning of integration into Finnish society will be severely delayed. This requires a wide-ranging change of attitude in society, but it also requires legislative changes as well in the integration law as in the foreign law. In that statement adopted by Parliament last week, the main starting point was that this whole chain should be made to work faster both on the reception centre and on the asylum application process and on the start of integration, on language learning, on access to employment. Every extra month spent here in vain or slow running of red tape wheels will be paid both to the Finnish taxpayer and to the person who has asked whether, for example, he can bring his family here. There is human suffering, but there are also great financial losses. It would therefore be important for Parliament to continue along the line that we took last week, that we unitedly take forward this greater need for renovation, which includes speeding up processing times, including speeding up applications for work permits, faster processing of residence permit applications, faster access to working life, and faster learning the Finnish language. A large entity that requires a broad will from the parties to bring this to a better career than it has been in recent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u6	Madam President! The Sipilä government has carried out a great deal of such deregulation: a reduction in the administrative burden, a reduction in the number of regulations, a reduction in the number of regulations. A great deal of good work has been done here. This bill, and this whole package, is an excellent example of the amendment of the foreign law, for one and a few small points. In the future, we will no longer need health care staff present in order to determine the links to the DNA sample, but it will be sufficient to have an appropriate official on the spot, and will lighten the situation so that health care professionals can look into the work they have been trained and needed for. This is a small matter in its entirety, but it is a good example that this is the way to take the administration forward. I can fully agree with what Mr Heinäluoma said in that regard that we should also try to move the regime in that direction, whether it is immigration or anything else, so that decisions can be speeded up. In today's digital world, the morning survey of many people seems old already this afternoon, i.e. quick solutions are needed, not to mention if months, even years, are expected, for example, in an immigration situation, in an asylum situation. This can lead to very dramatic situations, and unfortunately there are also examples. Mr President! One thing that has always surprised me: when a lot of foreign people are also trained in Finland, their chances of staying in Finland to work have been made very difficult. Here too there is a place for debureaucratisation, because it makes sense that, when we train, these professionals will also be given the opportunity to find employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u7	For reasons of timetable, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing so in such a way that I offer the opportunity to respond to these people who are here, Mrs Viitanen, Mr Räsänen, Mr Elo and Mrs Heinäluoma. You can still leave a request to speak there, but it will move on to the next few days.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u8	Mr President! I too believe that the idea which has become very clear here is extremely important and critical, at all stages of the process, that we need faster processing. I also wanted to emphasise this in my own speech that it was important and important that the Audit Committee, in which Mr Heinäluoma is the chairman, took a position, which later also became the unanimous position of the whole Parliament on these issues. I think there is a good basis for this, and it is very important that we can move forward on issues like this on a common front. [Simon Elon interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u9	Mr President! This proposal, which we are now dealing with, is indeed a question of two ways of deregulating unnecessary regulation, and it must be said, in the interests of honesty, that these measures do not have a very great impact on these processing times, but if even a small effect, then it is a good thing. Indeed, the Audit Committee carried out a major task over three years, dealing with these needs for the reform of integration legislation and concluded that the whole of integration legislation needs reform. It's not just enough to patch it up here. In the same context, these processing times, which are difficult in many ways, are also from the point of view of family reunification.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u10	Madam President! With reference to this, what Mr Räsänen said about the time limits for processing, the essence of this proposal is precisely that the request for an amendment will be subject to a fee at the time of the initiation of the case and that payment must be made within 30 days of the date on which the request for an amendment is made. In other words, it is precisely this which is intended to prevent manifestly unfounded claims of correction. On the other hand, if there is a positive result in that corrigendum, i.e. an adjustment, this payment will then be refunded. That is, in itself, a fair measure in every way. Mr Heinäluoma rightly also raised the issue of integration in such a general way. In their immigration and integration programme, blues have presented such an oath of loyalty to new citizens, which is used in many countries, from large countries such as the United States, Canada, Britain, Germany, Brazil. In other words, this oath of loyalty would be addressed to the Finnish State and the Constitution. This would increase the mental weight, importance and, at the same time, more and more through various tests would show that the person has proven to be integrated into Finnish values and culture. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-01-ps-152.u11	Mr President! It is good to hear again today that the spirit, albeit a little from a small parliament, is very united, that we need to make changes in this immigration policy, integration and that we need to make changes in such a way that they work, as we have been able to hear here, for the benefit of everyone. It is absolutely in everyone's interest that these treatments should not be put on the top of the years, but that they should be quickly resolved. If this can be carried forward in such a way as to be fair and dispassionate, I believe that the Finnish people will thank Parliament and the parliamentarians and parties, that we can react to the problems that have been identified and that solutions can be taken forward together. This acceleration, however, is therefore an important issue in the whole chain that I would like to see Parliament get a yes.
