ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TyVM 14/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 28 February 2019. In the debate, Rami Lehto, supported by Jani Mäkelä, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u3	Madam President! I have already discussed this issue of the FSH law at first reading, which I have already spoken on my part, but I only asked to speak to say that it is wonderful that we are now getting the end of this long-standing legislative process and that the law is finally adopted. I would also like to express my joy and thanks to all those involved for having done a very good job.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u4	Madam President! This is an extremely important and expected reform. This will ensure good and workable but, above all, equal student health care services for students at both universities and universities of applied sciences in the future. From the point of view of equality, this is also an important reform, i.e. to extend the student health services provided by the FSHS to all of our university students. Thus, in the future, polytechnic students will receive the same services as university students have had until now and will also have in the future. This reform also narrows the differences between students' well-being and health and supports our students' lives and studies in an excellent way. For example, about 10 per cent, or one in ten visits to universities, have been related to various mental health problems, and certainly many students in our universities of applied sciences have the same need. This reform is, in fact, quite historic. The Government and, as a result, Parliament now recognise and recognise the equal rights and needs of university students in health services. This has been a fairly long-term goal shared by student organisations. As this is now extended to universities and universities of applied sciences, over 250,000 students will come under the new system, and YTHS has announced that it will set up at least 30 new offices, 53 dental units and hire up to 350 new employees in charge of this good, high-quality and equal student health care in the future. In the future, health care for secondary students will therefore be the responsibility of the municipalities and hopefully in the future the responsibility of the provinces. In other words, wider shoulders are also needed to ensure that these secondary school students and upper secondary school students also receive good, uniform, equally high-quality services regardless of their place of residence and place of study. Mr President! This is an excellent and, you might say, even an historic decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u5	Mr President! It is a good thing that FSH services are now extended to polytechnic students. However, I have a little concern about this reduction in the range of services. As stated in this report, FSH has previously provided gynecologist services, for example, even though the Health Care Act does not oblige it and is not proposed as a service for the FSH in this draft law. The committee also raises concerns about this and the need to monitor the impact of the exclusion of these services on the adequacy of student health care services and the functioning of service chains. Personally, I am a little concerned about this exclusion of gynaecologist services from the FSH activities. However, a large proportion of university students are young women, for whom gynecologist services are extremely important, and the question is that if basic health care is in there in the FSHS, but the gynecologist must then go to the municipal services, then should we go where we should go and then whether the sexual health services will be satisfied in the way we need to? In other words, I really hope that the use and accessibility of these gynecology services in particular will be monitored in the future, so that the access to gynecology services for university students or, in fact, university students, who have been served by FSHS so far and who have also been offered gynecology services there will not be weakened. Mr President! Another key issue is these mental health services. Just as the report states, mental health problems are one of the biggest health problems of students, they are a huge problem, far too many of them suffer. We must develop our education system and society in such a way that they support mental well-being, promote mental health, but we also need seamless, smooth and easily accessible low-threshold mental health services. It is really important that student health care includes the student’s mental health care path and that these treatments are seamless, timely and meet the students’ needs. Mr President! All in all, a good bill, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u6	Madam President! Here a speaker already described this as an almost historic decision, and it is certainly an historic decision. I must say that in recent weeks and days there has always been a debate about whether our political system and parliamentarianism and this house are capable of making decisions and taking forward important reforms for ordinary people, this day and the extension of the services of this FSH and FSH also to university students is one of the things that gives young generations, students and young generations the belief that parliamentary parties and the government are able to carry out the necessary, fine reforms. After all, this has been a fairly glaring issue of equality and equality for years, that when you are at a university, university students at academia have had an excellent FSHS system and the health care of polytechnic students has been much more fragmented in the field. This issue of inequality is now being rectified, and this is really a big deal for our students and our young generations, and it will certainly also improve our public health and improve and, above all, prevent the health problems listed here by the generation of students. I very much hope, as has been pointed out here in the debate, that the health care of secondary students will now also be given attention in the context of the implementation of the social welfare reform and after that it will also be brought to an equally high level. Mr President! I cannot help saying that this also feels very good personally, because I myself am one of these veterans of youth policy and student politics who have been sead and fought in the fields of youth policy and student policy. As a student and youth director, I myself have been working on this issue in my day, and this is also a big force to show that the Student Union and the Samok movement at the University of Applied Sciences are working and getting things moving forward. I believe that this is also a victory for democracy and this traditional representative system that we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u7	Madam President! All we can do here is agree with colleagues who have thanked this proposal, and in particular the fact that this was not matched with the rest of the social welfare package, but that it was considered that this would be taken forward in any case. I would also like to express my thanks to student organisations, both SYL and Samok, for the work they have done for years on this issue. I remember during my first parliamentary term in 2003 when Samok’s social secretary came to tell me about this and said that this is quite difficult, that many young people are far from their own home and that if they get sick they will find it very difficult to get into any kind of health care. At the time of the early 21st century, there was still a practice in the municipalities that they were very quick to take new residents, at least students, and the situation of many students was very difficult that if you fell ill at the place where you were studying, then you should have gone to that place to apply for health care. Yes, it seemed that as a group of people they were a very strange intermissioner. Even then, this matter was taken forward, and I remember that during that period the government said that it was absolutely necessary to do this. But this is one example of how, in politics, these decision-making curves are enormously long. Things are not going to happen and things are not going to happen in the moment, but it is a good thing that this is a good thing that it is finally going to happen. Of course, as some here have already spoken, then we must consider how we can expand in the future, then think equally about high school students and also vocational education students. And, of course, we need to think about how we can be sure that student health care will also be of high quality in the future and that it will be comprehensive. For example, these young people's mental health services are of the kind we know that they are already experiencing difficulties in accessing and receiving treatment on time and, above all, that they should be preventive in accessing traffic. These are extremely important questions for young people, questions that can be avoided with the help and support of the right time, such as that of a young person who at some point is not interrupted because of these other reasons, health reasons. In that sense, we must also take care of these resources from the FSH. As many have said here, it is extremely good and worthwhile that this was finally achieved during this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u8	Mr President! There is a proposal here which can be very welcome, especially that this is progressing unanimously in Parliament. It is indeed a matter that we were pursuing as student activists more than 10 years ago. I was also responsible for social policy in my own student union, and we wanted to take this forward together, so that we could get equal services for all university students. This service covers both students studying at university of higher education, students studying polytechnic degrees and higher polytechnic degrees, also students studying at the Police University of Applied Sciences and civilian students at the National Defence College. So this crowd is expanding. It is particularly important that when students pay this mandatory health care fee and then the state pays for this end of these services, students will not be charged any other visit fees or customer charges for the use of these services. This is a truly clarifying and equal issue. What is great, of course, is that these service points are now expanding, especially for universities of applied sciences, that these services are then available to students regardless of their place of residence. What is also important, so the students still, like other residents, can use the county's general health services and emergency care services in the future, both on-call services and social services, of course. This freedom of choice can then also be used by students in the same way as by other residents of the province. It is not about income, even the poor can choose, it is an important value and it promotes equality. The reform will cover 250,000 students, and indeed new jobs will be created through this too. A very important reform. Thank you to the Sipilä government and Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u9	Mr President! As noted above, a truly fine day. Equality and equality are increasing. Now polytechnic students receive services similar to those previously received by university students. One can only wonder why this has been the case, but this is something that has been tried for a long time. If I look back on history, there are many attempts in the background that have always fallen on a point, and luckily, with this group we can take this matter forward. You can be so proud of the team that's been doing this kind of show. Finally, the long-awaited reform is progressing. What may be good to remember in the future is that the health services of universities of applied sciences have not been bad in all the localities up to now, but there are many examples, such as those from Kokkola, where the services have been very good, which have been satisfied according to all the studies. Now that the FSHS system will also become part of a university of applied sciences, it is important that in different parts of Finland – including where the campuses are a little smaller, and in those sparsely populated areas – it is possible to secure the current service level, i.e. the system's solutions must then be flexible and similar to the fact that good services can be provided to all students in Finland on an equal basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u10	Mr President! This is a truly historic day and an historic decision, and it is a great thing that the services of the FSHS are now expanding to students of polytechnics. It is particularly great now for those students who will then be able to access these services in the future, but it is also a very fine indication that the hundreds and hundreds of students who have contributed to this through the years will also receive a prize for their own influence, and many of them will also be in this Chamber today. It shows that the student and youth movement is also able to influence politics and achieve results, and even if this type of marathon is, then at the end the thanks stand. Mr President! We can really thank the government for this and, of course, for the parliamentary cooperation that has been made to move this issue forward. Last season, these pilots, which have already shown that polytechnic students, when accessing these services, are also happy to use them and that they also work very well. Now really this glaring difference in equality that we have had in these services, depending on whether a person is studying at a university of applied sciences or at a university of applied sciences, disappears. And I think it is a good idea to continue with this in order to eliminate these other differences: we still have differences with regard to students as to whether we are studying at a university or at a university of applied sciences, for example, with regard to the membership of student organisations, and it would be desirable for us to have a situation in the future where everyone is on the same footing. But, Mr President, this decision can be warmly commended.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u11	Mr President! It is excellent that this good decision will allow all university students to access the health services of the FSHS. This is a long-term objective of the student movement, which is now finally being realised and implemented. I know it from a long time ago when I was already a student in this field. This is also an indication of the good and effective impact of current student actives. Mr President! The future of Finland depends entirely on how young people and students are doing. It is very important that all students of higher education now be covered by the health services of the FSHS, and it is also important that students are provided with a high-quality service on a low threshold and with a focus on problems in the preventive direction. Thank you to the government for doing a good thing. This decision can be warmly supported and supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u12	We still have four speeches and four minutes, but let us try. Otherwise, it'll be next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u13	Madam President! I am trying to be collegiate and therefore save this time for the other representatives, because this is certainly not the Chamber that divides, but, above all, unites. As has been pointed out here, we also have many former veterans of the student movement, who have promoted this in our own student career, and in this respect it is horribly great to have this bill now before us, which improves the equality of university students and enables university students to have the same good services in the Finnish School of Education that students are in. Of course, there is still concern about secondary students, for whom, for example, the famous reform of social security would be of terrible importance. There are well-functioning municipalities and services, but then unfortunately, compared to the FSHS, there are far less good services everywhere. This, of course, also extends the number of places where higher education students receive these services. Yes, it is also quite significant: students in higher education only pay the health care fee at the beginning of the academic year. A fine, fine achievement and a good reform, and thank you to the central government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u14	Madam President! As an old member of the Association of Finnish Student Unions and the Student Union of the University of Helsinki and as Chairman of the Coalition Students, I remember very well how long we have been pursuing this. And I am very pleased about this public health leap that at last all students in higher education will be brought within the scope of the FSHS. I am particularly pleased with this financing solution. And the major objective of this reform is to improve the quality of services, above all the prevention. And I say that if we specifically wrote something in the report, it was that even more effort should be made by the FSH to promote physical activity and promote health. That is what this law allows. I am very much in favour of this draft law, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u15	Madam President! I agree with the group who warmly thank you for this presentation and for bringing it to the finish line. We can do that. The last time the Constitutional Committee dealt with this bill, it refused to accept that students of polytechnics should have the same right as representatives of student unions and students at university. Now water has flowed in the river and this decision has been reached so far that equality and constitutionality in this particular matter can be implemented. It is very important for polytechnic students who have so far had to apply for services in their own municipalities. As is well known, social and health services are not equal in all municipalities. This FSH decision will now be decisive in correcting the fact that everyone receives equal opportunities, all students in higher education, the excellent services they deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u16	Mr Karimäki, I would like to take one more floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-01-ps-168.u17	Mr President! It is a very important decision that students' health care now expands to polytechnic students. Student organizations have been working on this for years. I want to thank SYL, Samok and all the student organizations. Mr Sarkkinen spoke well about the need to ensure the scope of the service package and the availability of adequate gynaecological services. I would also like to highlight mental health services. Many young students have a need for therapy services, a need for rapid low-threshold encounters with mental health problems. I believe that we should invest in these, as well as in health promotion and the prevention of problems. Promoting student physical activity: it must be invested considerably more — promoting the opportunities for physical activity and promoting a mobile university.
