ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 15 October 2019. In the debate Jouni Kotiaho Petri Huru has suggested that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Up to 60 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u3	Madam President! The bill to amend the Mining Act collected some 60,000 names. Thank you to the active citizens of the citizens' initiative. This is the right way to have a legitimate and organised influence, not in a mining area. The mining sector employs thousands of people directly and indirectly, thousands of hardworking Finns. Interest and opportunities are on the growth trend. Mining activities can be carried out by rape of nature, disregarding environmental values, child labour or even slave labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u6	Mr President! I am approaching this citizens' initiative from three different points of view: firstly, the right to clean nature, secondly, what we should do now, and thirdly, our global responsibility. This citizens' initiative is motivated by the concerns of tens of thousands of Finns about the clean environment and nature. I believe that this concern is shared by the majority of Finns. We do not need any mines in Finland that corrupt our nature and spoil our water. In my opinion, the concern behind this initiative is genuine, understandable and legitimate. Similarly, many people are concerned about the possibilities for different industries to operate. As a matter of principle, no economic activity can take precedence over any other activity. Clean diverse nature and a comfortable environment are riches and values that must also be nurtured in the mining industry. Mines always have an impact on nature, but in responsible mining operations these effects are minimised and controlled. Mr President! What, then, should we do? Our mining law has entered into force in July 2011, but it has not yet been applied to any functioning mine. Therefore, there is no need at this stage for a comprehensive reform of the Mining Act. However, precise corrections are needed. By the way, the same conclusion came from Dr. Pekka Vihervuori of law, who handed over to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in June, in a very thorough study. In precision repairs, it is essential to pay attention to all legislation on mining, not just the Mining Act. What repairs are needed? I would like to mention a few that have also been highlighted in the Centre's mining policy guidelines: 1. The ecological compensation system must be able to cover all mining activities, mining land use. 2. The guarantee system and the environmental damage insurance system must be reformed. The system must cover not only environmental pollution situations, but also pollution threats and damage situations and after-sales management. Not a single aftercare should remain on the taxpayer’s tab. [Department : Right! ] 3. Authorisation processes must be developed and combined. 4. After thorough preparation, a separate tax should be imposed on the mining sector for the site of the mine, based, for example, on the net yield from the enrichment. 5. The municipalities should be given absolute power through planning to decide whether mining is possible in the municipality's territory or not. Mr President! Although there is also much in my list of citizens' initiatives that we are discussing here, I do not see that this initiative could as such be adopted by Parliament. Finally, a few words about our global responsibility. Combating climate change, electrification of transport and various energy storage solutions increase global demand for battery minerals. Finland has an excellent opportunity to develop a battery cluster, not only because of the minerals in our soil, but also because of its expertise in energy and chemistry. Battery recycling and product development also offer a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u7	Mr President! It is now time to reform the Mining Act, and the aim of the Left Alliance is to do so ahead of environmental protection and local democracy. Soil riches are national property and are, in principle, the property of citizens and society. Now multinational companies have been able to dig them in our country almost free of charge at the same time as environmental damage has remained in Finland. Tax payers have been left with huge bills of environmental damage, but also with the kind of environmental damage that is impossible to compensate for with money. It is clear that, for example, the energy transition required to combat climate change requires metals, but it does not change the starting point for economic activity, including the mining industry, to operate within the framework of environmental conditions and citizens' sense of justice. The rules of the mining industry must be changed, and they must be fair to the environment as well as to the local community. I would therefore like to thank the authors and signatories of the citizens' initiative for raising this important issue. The initiative has also been exceptionally detailed and carefully prepared. Current mining legislation puts mining companies' rights ahead of local people and natural rights. This is the wrong order of values. Our starting point is the identification of non-renewable resources as common property. The wealth of the soil belongs to the people, not to corporations. Municipalities should be granted an unambiguous right to prohibit exploration for ore and mining for commercial purposes in their territory. The Government Programme has committed itself to promoting the decision-making powers of municipalities and local authorities. It is also promised to improve the role and information of local actors. On the left, we have also called for the specific issues of cultural minority groups, such as the Sámi, to be taken into account in all mining activities. The Left Alliance does not want to see another environmental disaster like Winterfell. The destruction of delicate nature is an invaluable loss. Environmental risks should be assessed at the earliest possible stage with such care that no prospecting and mining permit is granted if risks are identified. Natural protection areas should not be allowed to search for ore at all. The independence of environmental impact assessment can best be ensured if it is carried out by an impartial public body. In turn, the mining company must be responsible for financing the impact assessment. I am pleased to say that the Government Programme finally promises to take account of nature conservation aspects in the reform of the Mining Act. Environmental impacts will be investigated at an earlier stage, environmental impact assessment of mining projects will be developed and the limitation of ore exploration in nature conservation areas will be investigated. Security regulation has been promised to be developed in such a way that environmental responsibilities will no longer be unaccounted for. For the sake of our precious nature and our people, mining taxation requires reform. Mining companies do not currently pay their land-based raw materials more than a small amount of compensation they pay to landowners. In fact, the government has promised to clarify the introduction of a separate mining tax and a tax on the profits of mining rights in order to finally make a reasonable contribution to society — thanks for that. We, on the left, want companies to pay for the exploitation of our non-renewable joint assets and to bear their responsibilities for the environmental burden. The basis, level and distribution of the mining tax must now be clarified. However, taxation alone is not enough; tax avoidance must also be prevented. Almost all of Finland's mines are owned by foreign companies, and the sector has been renovated in aggressive tax planning. This has resulted in huge tax losses for Finland. Mr President! The minerals in our soil are our shared responsibility, and therefore the ecological and socially unsustainable activities of companies must be tackled through the reform of legislation. The Left is very welcome to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u8	Do we want to have a debate on this citizens' initiative at this stage? I would ask the Members who wish to speak in the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u9	Mr President! Finland is a very attractive country for mining investments. We have a nationwide infrastructure, road and electricity network and a skilled and multilingual workforce, and legislation and regulation are manageable. The licensing processes and time spans are also well evaluated by the authorities. As has been heard here, the Mining Act entered into force in 2011 and has not yet been applied to any new mine. I am sure it is good that these issues have now been raised through the citizens' initiative, and it is good that the government has taken action in accordance with the Government Programme and is bringing us the exact corrections to the Mining Act in the course of next year. Due to its entire value chain, mining is a very large employer and value creator in the province. There are a number of promising new deposits, and when these new mines are set up, a very important social permit is, in other words, the local approval of the mines at all. If this social licence is not taken care of, often the opposing party has prolonged complaint procedures. I'd like to ask the ministers:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u10	Mr President! It is good that the citizens' initiative also brings this issue to the debate here in Parliament, and I am also pleased that the government is sympathetic to the need for legislative changes in this area. During the last parliamentary term, we remember how we dealt on several occasions with the environmental damage caused by the Winterfell mine, hundreds of millions of euros worth of the costs it incurred for the state. It is also a clear exclamation point for this Parliament that something must be done. The proceeds from these minerals should in some way be made much better used in the interests of Finnish citizens as well, so I hope that, when we start to deal with this in Parliament, there will be a clear message and a decision that these municipalities — not only — and also the Finnish State will be left with an increasing share of this money, the sales income of minerals.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u11	Mr President! It is a very good thing that this mining policy is being discussed here, because I believe that the vast majority believe that, when used sustainably in Finland, not only brings well-being and work to many areas in Finland where it is not self-evident, but also responds to the needs of the world: for example, with regard to the electrification of transport, Finland can actually be a key factor in terms of battery minerals. At the same time, I also think that it is justified to assess whether a mining tax or other means should also be used in Finland and the owner of the country to retain a larger share of its output, because they are, however, our non-renewable natural resources. They're only sold once. We are not necessarily in a hurry to open the mine now or in 10 years — it is important that there is no return. But this has to be done very carefully in that this one cannot bounce every two years. Search alone is a 15-year cycle. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister that, since on the one hand, the government has opted for an easy way of raising the electricity tax by mines — transfer to first class and abolish the refund of the energy tax — is it really the wrong way,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u12	Madam President! According to the Government Programme, the need to reform the Mining Act will be investigated. It is a very good entry, and Markus Salmon, a strong representative of the city centre, gave a good speech and described the objectives of the city centre with regard to the Mining Act. All his proposals are very well-founded. It is important to remember that about 70 per cent of the metal coming to this country is imported and about 30 per cent of it comes from its own soil, so that Finland is completely dependent on imports of metals. If we want to maintain this good, high standard of living and sell good products abroad, then we have no choice but to refine the metals that come from the country as much as possible and to make it new work and prosperity for this nation and, at the same time, to deal with environmental issues, as is, of course, the aim of all of us. I attach great importance to the fact that Mr Kulmuni, Minister of Economic Affairs, and Mr Mikkonen, Minister of the Environment, are both present — it shows that there is a serious view on this issue. And one more thing: if we do not manage these mining issues well ourselves, then mining will move to countries such as Congo, where child labour, for example, is a problem. This is something we should always bear in mind,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u13	Mr President! Thank you very much for raising this issue to the initiators of this citizens' initiative. Fortunately, the government programme now promises not only to clarify but also to reform the mining legislation. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister. From the corner, the timetables for preparing this reform. The Government Programme also states that municipalities are given the right to decide by planning whether or not the mining will enter the municipality. This is one of the important reforms to which the Government Programme has committed itself. There are a lot of things that need to be reformed in order to make mining in Finland sustainable. As has already been said in the previous speeches, there are far too many cases where the mine disappears and then the company goes bankrupt or something and the cleaning costs are borne by society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u15	Mr President! There is a lot of good in the Mining Act — thank you for the initiative. Indeed, the Government Programme has agreed to reform the Mining Act. The starting point is, among other things, to improve environmental protection, to strengthen the conditions for mining operations, and to improve local acceptability and empowerment. It is important that municipalities should be given the right to prevent or permit planning from mining activities. It is also good that the rights of indigenous peoples are also taken into account within the framework of existing legislation. It is very important to develop guarantee regulation in such a way that environmental responsibilities are managed in all situations. Soil minerals should also be used in Finland in an ecological and socially sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u16	Madam President! Thank you to those who have taken this initiative. Thank you, too, for the record of the Government Programme, which is clear. Let us hope that this initiative will also lead to this reform of the Mining Act being carried out during this period. It is important to target potential environmental damage to the responsibility of the person who runs the business. Society, and in particular the municipality in whose territory the activity takes place, must also benefit significantly from it. The amount of the quarry must be the basis for the possible payment that will be made. It is particularly important that, when this mining activity ends, this restoration and repairing of the site will also take place by this trader.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u17	Madam President! I would like to comment mainly on the way in which mines are being produced at the moment. They are important to our industry and as importers of jobs, but the environment must be taken into account. I am referring here to the talc mining project north of Kajaani: It has been very strongly opposed, but Tukes has, however, given permission to carry out further investigations and even start... Well, there is no construction decision, but there is a message in this direction. There have been many decades of settlements, closer to a hundred years, and right next to the settlement there will be a mine — it is totally unacceptable. In other words, people and environmental issues must be taken very seriously into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u18	Madam President! A little less than ten years ago, the Mining Act was reformed on a proposal from the Vanhanen Government, and at that time I was in the Committee on Economic Affairs and with the representative of the Left Alliance, Kankaa, we objected to a mining tax that would be paid to the locality. However, it was brought down by the then government and parliament. It is a pleasure to hear that there is broad support for this now. I believe that the municipality to which the disadvantages come and which will have to pay for the infrat and many others will be compensated for that mine. I would ask the Minister: when there really are no mining companies in Finland, would the government be prepared to re-establish a state-owned mining company in Finland? This would get the whole chain into national hands. It requires capital, and it is a long project, but it is unreasonable for Australians and Canadians to take our natural resources,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u19	Madam President! It has been nice to note during this debate that there seems to be a broad consensus in the Chamber that sustainable mining is needed, that sustainable mining has significant business opportunities for Finland. In this debate, I think it is important to recognise the difference between exploration and mining, on the one hand, and to understand that perhaps even more than the Mining Act itself regulates this area. It is great that the ministers are here in the debate, and I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment first of all how to ensure that the permits provided for by environmental legislation are valid in such a way that the legitimate activities, such as the exploration of ore, can actually be carried out. Well, if you think about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u20	Madam President! Thank you all for signing this mining law citizens' initiative. Here the centre's view is clear that we must have sustainable mining legislation — it must be environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. In this regard, the representative of the Salmon also raised the importance of the municipality and the region. In fact, I think it is a good thing that we are considering and going through how, for example, through taxation, municipalities would benefit more — equally as a tax or as a bag of money — and that this is where we are going to clean up the tracks. New, or say existing, mining law is quite recent, and there is not yet any experience with it. It is good that it will be somewhat clarified here. However, I will mention these foreign investments. There's been a lot of interference here, too. Foreign money will take at least EUR 100 million before the mine can be set up, and then there will be several other expenditures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u21	Madam President! At the very beginning, I would also like to thank the signatories of this initiative and remind you that the Mining Act will in any case be reformed during this parliamentary term. I think that this citizens' initiative is a good start to this debate on mining law. The needs for the renewal of the Mining Act have been assessed under the leadership of liquidator Pekka Vihervuori, and these conclusions have also been used in the Government negotiations. It is worth noting that the entries in the Government Programme are in rather strong line with both the Vihervuori report and the many changes introduced in the citizens' initiative. How should Finland work? Finland must serve as an example of sustainable mining. The Mining Act needs to be reformed so that the environmental impact of mines can be reduced, and there is certainly room for improvement in the position of property owners and landowners. It is also the will of the current government to examine the permit processes and practices and possible limitations of the exploration right to nature reserves, and according to preliminary data, this bill relating to the Mining Act is coming to Parliament right now in the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u22	Madam President! Thank you very much to those who have taken the initiative and to those who have signed it, because this is indeed a problem that we must make sense of in our legislation. That much must be taken into account in this case, which I read on the initiative, for example, that we should hit hard environmental requirements at the start stage, and so on, so to speak, the guarantee fund. It could actually be done with money coming from ore, because the problem is that if you have to have the money for the immediate so-called cleanup, then it means that the competition is virtually dead, because then there is no possibility for anyone else except global mining giants, because no one else has that money to put in the cash register at that point before the first shovelload has been taken out of the country. There is now a risk of making a mistake in making it very demanding at that point, because it can be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u23	Madam President! For my part, I would like to thank every person who has been on the move for this initiative and who has signed it. Perhaps there is something about the importance of this issue and how valuable it is when we talk about the Finnish nature, that tens of thousands of people have moved on because of this initiative, and something about it also tells us that we have both ministers here. Thank you very much for that. It's a valuable and important matter. Personally, I think it is quite clear from this debate that our current mining legislation is out of date. It does not sufficiently defend Finnish nature or Finnish people, and that is why, among other things, the Greens and many others in this Chamber have been pushing forward the reform of the Mining Act during the last period. There may have been some confusion about what the record of the government programme is. It does not record a survey or evaluation or anything else, but clearly states that ‘mining legislation will be reformed’. At the same time, there are also records of better consideration of many environmental issues, and it seems particularly unfair when it comes to nature conservation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u24	Mr President! Indeed, it is globally responsible that the growing demand for minerals in the world is also met here in Finland and not just in countries of lower standards. We have rightly raised the issue of environmental violations of the Congolese cobalt mines and the use of child labour, for example. The mining sector must assume its responsibilities in Finland. The polluter pays principle must work in practice. After-treatment of environmental damage and damage should not be socialised for Finns. There are still mines in Finland where there are no guarantees. Another problem arises in the event of bankruptcy, where aftercare has fallen on the back of taxpayers. The guarantees paid by the mining sector should be at the right level. That is what I would have asked Minister Kulmun: when will there be legislative amendments to this? The second point is this mining tax. It is quite clear that Finns must receive adequate compensation for the use of non-renewable minerals, and that is also of interest to us if the government is a mining tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u25	Madam President! It is important that we discuss this issue, and this now comes to a good point when we have a citizens' initiative and the fact that the government programme has been included in this way. I would say to Mr Laukkanen that under no circumstances should taxes be determined in relation to the amount of mining, but taxation should be based on the value of minerals. At this point, when the mining law and taxation are being reformed, we must remember and see that we have products, we have minerals that will be used for further processing in this country. Harjavalta, Kokkola, Tornio, Hämeenlinna, Pori are localities that benefit from our mining industry in this country. Of course, they also bring out, but let us not forget that we also have minerals that are taken directly out, and at that point these minerals should have a royalty payment that will generate the mining tax-like return to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u26	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank the authors of the initiative for raising an important issue. I think there are two important points to take into account here. Firstly, ore resources are part of our national property, which, in my view, cannot be handed over free of charge or with insignificant compensation abroad. Finland must not be a colony that foreign operators are able to reserve as large areas at a time. Secondly, environmental considerations must be taken into account. No need for a new Winterfell To the Saimaa river basin and nowhere else. Of course, environmental issues must be taken into account for both domestic and foreign operators, but it is easier for a foreign operator to think of this possibility of a taillight guarantee that problems are created and then we go back to the country of origin and perhaps send a big bill back to Finland after Finland has entered into these free trade agreements. This should not be the case. A huge majority of Finns would like to restrict foreign ownership in mining projects, and I fully agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u27	Madam President! Thank you to the authors of the citizens' initiative. It is extremely important that this issue should arise in the debate. Last spring, the Christian Democrats and their own electoral programme stated that the Mining Act should be reformed. We are not opposed to the mining industry as such if it is responsible, but the current Mining Act is not entirely capable of ensuring that it is responsible enough, and that is why these changes are needed. In particular, it is gratifying that the government has already said that it intends to reform these security payments, because indeed, in many cases, if a company goes bankrupt or something like that, then we have no one to bear these damages. In that sense, we need such a fair and life-cycle security charge, just as we do in nuclear power, as we do on the anti-oil side. The second thing is this royalty. We are in favour of a model in which this amount of minerals extracted would also be the factor that will be taken into account, because it is so easy in the financial statements to arrange a subsidiary for zero results.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u28	Mr President! As the Green Mountain report mentioned here also states, a radical amendment to the Mining Act has not been considered appropriate. In this sector, too, the government's activities must be long-term and predictable. It should be noted that the sector directly employs 7,000 people in Finland and indirectly employs approximately 13,000 person-years. However, mining cannot be based on everyman’s rights and it is not in Finland’s interest that the ore mined here should be exported for further processing to other countries. It is important that further processing be carried out in Finland. This would ensure the maximum benefit for Finland and Finns. It is a good thing that, after this citizens' initiative, we will be able to discuss in greater depth how we can take care of the environmental impact of mining, the role of municipalities in the planning and location of mining activities and how, for example, mining taxation will be improved. I would ask the ministers: are there any special development and innovation efforts coming to the mining or mineral sector in order to increase further processing in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u29	Mr President! Indeed, it is great that this citizens' initiative will enable us to discuss this issue of concern to many citizens. Indeed, the number of signatures shows that many Finns have been tested for their confidence in mining, and it is great that the government has also intended to address this issue. In this government legislative work, it is important to take into account the entire mining life cycle and clear links to issues and impacts on the circular economy. The Coalition Party supports mining tax, and in our parliamentary election programme we have talked about mining tax. I would like to ask the ministers how the government intends to increase the influence of municipalities and municipalities, for example, through planning in this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u30	Mr President! That is a small piece of news to me that the Coalition Party is in favour of a mining tax based on mining.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u33	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to those who made the initiative! People’s concerns about Finland’s weak mining legislation are justified. The consumption of natural resources is increasing and biodiversity is deteriorating. The environmental weaknesses of the global market mechanism in use following the destruction of the Brazilian rainforests have come to light in a harsh way. The extractive industry and mining are among the five main reasons for the endangered nature of the species. I would like to ask the ministers: if the demand for minerals increases, as is anticipated, how can we prevent the loss of biodiversity? 75% of Finnish waste comes from the extractive industry. The acid side stone will remain in the environment for all eternity. How can we respond to this challenge, for which there is no solution yet? Finally, I would have asked about CETA, a joint free trade agreement between Europe and Canada. For example, in a recent publication by the University of Eastern Finland, researchers question this earlier interpretation that we would be safe here. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u34	Mr President! This is a good initiative and for that I thank the signatories. I think Congressman Salmon has confused the figures for Winterfell and Terrafame. In other words, the guarantees of EUR 107 million were set aside for Talvivaara. We've never known if they've been paid to that Ely Center in Kainuu. Terrafame has been guaranteed securities of 56.5 million and guaranteed by the Government so that Terrafame itself has not paid them there. Without a counter-guarantee, they have been guaranteed by the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u35	Mr President! I've got information about Terrafame's guarantees from the Ministry of the Environment. If the information I have received is not correct, I can check it out. Either way, my main message was that there is also a need for a change in this matter of security. After all, we have separate guarantees under the Mining Act and then we have guarantees under the Environmental Protection Act. These guarantees cannot be used in a situation where, for example, one is insufficient and the other cannot be used, cross-subsidised. This is one of the problems raised by this rapporteur in his report in June, and I believe that this is an appropriate correction to be made. A representative of the Finns Party pointed out that we would need a state-owned mining company. I think we're forgetting that during the last parliamentary term, about a year ago, one of them was set up. Finland's Malmi Refinery Oy has been established. It owns more than one mine. It's a 100% state-owned company. It is only a matter of capitalising this company so that it can accelerate the operation of our battery cluster in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u36	Should we give the ministers the answers? Three minutes. Minister Kulmuni first, and then Minister for the Environment Mikkonen. — — — — My corner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u37	Madam President! A few comments and comments. For my part, too, I would like to thank the active members of the citizens' initiative that Parliament has been able to deal with this issue, and perhaps more broadly, the issues and issues relating to mining legislation that have arisen here, I can of course comment from my own administration. It is worth remembering, as many people have said here, that the mining industry is also a very important employer in Finland. We currently have 46 wells, almost 7,000 people working in them, and the turnover is also significant. At the same time, of course, as in everything — and especially when dealing with natural resources — social responsibility and environmental responsibility are emphasised. As has been pointed out here, this work has already been carried out in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy during the last parliamentary term, for example, a report on the amendments to the Mining Act was commissioned from Dr Pekka Vihervuori, who was also referred to by Mr Salmon. This report also highlighted a number of points that should be taken into account. In fact, the same things had already been taken into account in the Government Programme books, and I will be bringing those amendments to Parliament next year when we get them together. One of them relates, for example, to guarantees under this mining law. According to this report from Vihervuori, they are not at a sufficient level and the objective pursued by the law is not fulfilled in the 2011 Mining Act, so the guarantee regulation of the Mining Act needs to be amended in this respect. In addition, there are also issues that are also based on government programme records, such as the need to change the conditions for a mining permit, in relation to the existence of an existing formula approved by the municipality. Thirdly, there is, of course, a need for information and information on applications and decisions, so that the locals in the region know how the processes are going. To give you these three examples. Furthermore, perhaps I could mention this mining tax. Of course, tax matters are a matter for the administration of the Ministry of Finance, but apparently there is also a very broad desire in this House for this to be clarified. Of course, we also have reasons to compare this with what has been done elsewhere in the world, so I hope that the Ministry of Finance will be able to start a study on this. And, of course, it is important that, when society becomes electrified, we have those minerals and ores that are sustainably produced in the future. And the Finnish battery industry can be a problem solver in many ways, even in the big issues of the world, but it will then require sustainable and environmentally acceptable mining and further processing. Finland is involved in European battery cluster cooperation and, of course, it is very important to us, because our happiness is that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u38	And Minister Mikkonen, three minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u39	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the citizens' initiative. It is very important for us to be able to discuss the need for change concerning mining legislation, not just the Mining Act, but the mining legislation as a whole. After all, mining also has many laws, which are environmental laws regulating mining, and it has many common interfaces with both the Mining Act and other environmental legislation that governs this. As has been mentioned many times here, the Government Programme has strong records of how mining legislation is being reformed and how it specifically wants to take greater account not only of the environmental impact but also of the potential of local residents to influence, but also, of course, of the fact that the conditions for mining activities are being maintained, provided that they are carried out responsibly — taking account of these ecological framework conditions — and also socially responsiblely, which has come up many times. Then, of course, the important point is that, apart from the fact that we have legislation, our authorities must have sufficient resources to enforce the legislation. This has been one of the concerns of some of these problem mines at the moment: that the authorities have not had sufficient control resources and have not been able to deal with them in time either. These resources are now also being strengthened in next year's budget. And indeed this Nature Conservation Act, which is being reformed during this parliamentary term, also has links with mining legislation, and its reform is due to begin at the end of the year. It will look at these interfaces, and then, for example, it will explain the one thing that has been included in this government programme, the way in which mining activities in nature conservation areas are taken into account. Then there is indeed this consideration of the environmental impact at the earliest possible stage, it is important, and then better coordination between the mining permit and the environmental permit, which has been raised here on one issue. In this context, a law on the coordination of environmental authorisation procedures has already entered into force at the beginning of last month, which, in a certain way, provides opportunities for closer coordination of these procedures, but of course it would be in the interests of all operators and the interests of citizens that these licensing practices should be as uniform as possible and also relatively fast as possible, because the big problem at the moment is that these licensing processes will last so long as local operators do not really know what is going to happen here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u40	Let's get back to the debatt. I am still asking you to press the button again and stand up for those who wish to speak here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u41	Madam President! The initiative is a good opening for discussion on the reform of the Mining Act already included in the Government Programme. Reform is important in many ways, taking into account both the environment and industrial policy and social considerations. Legislation must be possible without excesses, taking into account the objectives of sustainable development. The regional economic impact of the extractive industry has also been on the agenda here, particularly in Eastern and Northern Finland, which is rather huge, with more than four and a half thousand jobs, and if you look at the multiplier effects through the subcontracting chain, the effects will be two and a half — three and a half times the impact of the regional economy, let alone in the regions where the mining industry is located. What is important is that, from the point of view of growth and employment, it should be possible in the future to increase the value chain of the mining industry as a whole from extraction to processing. This would be best for both the government's employment objectives and sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u42	Madam President! This mining law citizens' initiative is more than welcome, and I thank the ministers for your presence in the referral debate on an important issue. There are many problems with mining laws and activities. Perhaps one of the biggest things is that we have an absurd situation: whoever gets the chance to keep it, that is, this system of takeovers, which does not work in the right way. You don't hear people, you don't hear neighborhoods, you don't have a chance to say no, and you have to change that. Of course, something about this failure tells us about the operations of Valkeakoski Dragon Mining: we remember when the company was going to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, how they told the investors that in Finland those authorities are so slow and the rights are so slow that we can get the gold out of there before they can handle them. In other words, it is right that the people are now demanding action, and hopefully they will now be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u43	Honorable Speaker! We can see quite easily from this budget distributed to us what will happen if we do not put the guarantees high enough. It can be said from this page 762 that last year we have spent 16.3 million, as I recall, closing the nickel mine in Nivala, and that was phase two of the dismantling process, and earlier on, I think it was about five million. In other words, their guarantees must be at a good enough level and attention must be paid to the fact that the relationship between the owners of the mines does not change too much. Otherwise, I would say that we would have to pay attention to the whole ecosystem. In this mining business, if you think about the battery ecosystem, we have ores, battery chemicals, anode, cathode production, accumulating, then we have the electric car in which they are installed, or some other device,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u44	Madam President! As has often been mentioned here in the debate, this citizens' initiative is a very positive and, of course, a very serious message to us, the Finnish Parliament, that regulation relating to mining must be put at such a level that it complies with the criteria of sustainable development and that we do not deprive future generations of the opportunity to enjoy Finland's nature and its good ores in its bedrock. As such, the mining legislation has moved forward in Finland, and here I would like to thank the city centre, my party, as well as the members of the group and the Greens for the fact that the current Mining Act was enacted in the Vanhanen II Government. If I have understood correctly, these permits have not been given very much on the basis of the new law, because the legislation has been stricter. But we will continue to need to tighten up. The Centre Party wants Finland to be a model country for sustainable mining. There's room for mines, but there's nowhere to go. President! I would like to emphasise the role of the municipality in particular. There must be good planning or other means of tackling whether or not the well comes into the area, and yes, we need some kind of tax or payment,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u45	Mr President! Thank you to those who have taken the initiative and to those who have spoken well here. We therefore have a situation in which we have a strong electrification and the need for minerals, and then the balancing with the environmental and social disadvantages of mining. In such situations, responsible and sustainable mining is inevitably needed, and this is, of course, a prerequisite for good regulation, which will fairly share the benefits and minimise the disadvantages. You can't trust the goodwill of companies. The united voice of this House on this issue gives me a good back to good and courageous legislation. This role of municipalities has been highlighted here, and it is important that municipalities have a say in this. Perhaps I would have asked the ministers how to ensure, on the other hand, that a small municipality in Finland is in a kind of good position in relation to these global mining companies and such, and that it is able to make a good, comprehensive sustainable assessment of when a mining is a good idea or not. In a way, balancing this asymmetry — what can the state do about it? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u46	Madam President! Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. The situation is unsustainable because a new mining law or old renovation is immediately needed in Finland because uncertainty affects the financing negotiations and the establishment of new mines. Three principles should be that minerals belong to landowners and the state in Finland. This would provide the State with a sustainable return on its own resources and would allow it to invest further if it were to obtain a tax linked to their use at market prices. For example, the Norwegian Oil Fund is based on a similar idea. This law is also in a hurry because the forthcoming trade agreement between Canada and the EU will give Canadian mining waste more freedoms and a better position to operate and make it more difficult to adopt new legislation. But mining companies can't.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u47	Madam President! Of course, this mining activity has a major local employment impact, but we still need a change in the Mining Act. It is incomprehensible that large multinationals are often able to exploit the wealth on our soil without sufficient responsibility. First of all, what has been said here is absolutely vital that the decision-making bodies of the municipality where the activities are planned can be decided unambiguously on the start of mining. Then I also think it is very important that companies bear greater responsibility for these environmental impacts. Of course, the prospecting of ore should also be prohibited in nature conservation areas. The mining company must also pay taxes to society on mined ore, and it must safeguard the future of the mining site by means of funds or guarantees in case the mining site is left with an environmentally problematic situation. The mining bill itself is broadly to be supported. The Government Programme has raised the key issues of the initiative well, and I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u48	Madam President! The mining industry is an important sector. We have the 46 wells and almost EUR 2 billion in turnover and 7000 staff and 130 million tonnes of total mining. I come from Lapland. We have three working wells, and we have Europe's largest gold mine, the Great Six gold mine, and even though Levi is almost a stone's throw away from that Great Six, the mines really complement each other in terms of jobs — both spouses have found a job. There are many women in the tourism-intensive sector, and then many men in the mining sector work. There wouldn't be an Outokumpu steel factory if it weren't for the well in Elijärvi. Outokumpu, a large steel factory, provides indirect and immediate jobs 7,000, so that there are significant effects. But the mining tax is such that the municipalities are always giving feedback that they are not getting a slice of this result. Of course, the municipality will have corporation tax, property tax, income from wages, purchasing power, but if you could get something to do with it, where the municipality and the locals would get their share.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u49	Madam President! First of all, as I said in my first speech, there must be a reasonable compensation for the municipalities if the municipality decides that the planning of the mine will be possible. Representative Salmon was a little critical of the convention's tax policy. In my own speech, I said that taxation can be based on the amount of mining, operating profit, turnover or, as you yourself said, on net revenue from enrichment. Representative Salmon wrote in the Aamulehti on 8.1. that one option is a mining tax based on real estate tax, but that is not the solution. I am the one who stresses the importance of good preparation. Let me take Valkeakoski for example: We have a gold mine, ore is taken to another municipality, Sastamala, there are no real estate. We don't have any real estate tax on it. This requires good preparation, and I am happy to hear from the ministers the view that what could be such a fair and effective tax solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u50	Madam President! This citizens' initiative really draws attention to a number of important issues and it is therefore good that the government programme has also addressed these same issues. A lot of good speeches have been made here in relation to what needs to be taken into account when, for example, legislation is being reformed. However, I would also like to draw attention to this global picture, which is to ask the ministers Kulmuni and Mikkonen: while we are making our own mining activities more sustainable, what could the government do for its part to promote the sustainability of mining activities in international arenas and other countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u51	Madam President! I would also like to ask the ministers about this legislation on takeovers. In other words, that part of this mining legislation in particular is the one that chafes many people, because it seems as if it is still done in that spirit when Finland has been poor capital and it has been important that as long as someone comes and sets up a mine in the region. As was heard here in one of the speeches, even as a means of marketing has been used in the company to raise the value of the company’s shares, it has been told how easy it is in Finland to set up a well or to bring about this takeover. By the time the authorities have just woken up, the mine has already been emptied. It seems that the legislation on takeovers is in particular in need of correction. In that situation, both landowners and the municipality have very little say when a mining company wants to come and take over,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u52	Madam President! Thank you to the initiators and the signatories. The reform of the Mining Act is a matter of urgency. As we know, more than a sixth of Finland's surface area is already reserved by mining companies, and about 10% of the reserves are located in the Natura area. One of the biggest reservations in Kanta-Häme is located in the immediate vicinity of Torronsuo National Park. Even this example of diversity, this home of hundreds of different species of life, this culturally valuable nature reserve is not safe from mining companies. Madam President! Torronsuo National Park is just one example of the sites that the reform of the Mining Act must protect. Municipalities must have the right to say no to mining activities in their own territories. Companies must be fully responsible for the environmental damage caused by their activities and, especially now, in the age of the sixth mass extinction, biodiversity must be protected by all means. We need a new mining law, and that is why this citizens' initiative is so important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u53	Madam President! Thank you to those who have taken the initiative and thank you very much for this debate, which has been quite factual in this room. In his good speech, Mr Salmon referred to the recent reform of the mining law in 2011, under which no new mines have yet been approved. It is therefore very difficult to assess the way in which that previous mining law has worked. I therefore very much welcome the fact that this review of the Mining Act has been outlined in the Government Programme, because the examination of one or two issues clearly does not resolve this challenge for us. It is clear, however, that environmental issues must be in order and social responsibility must be recognised. I trust the municipalities, and the municipalities should have the right to decide through planning whether mining is possible in the municipality's territory. How do the ministers contribute to this? Second thing: It would be in everyone's interest for the mining industry to be assigned, after thorough preparation, this kind of separate mine location with a tax for recovery.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u54	We have already spent a fair amount of the allocated hour at this stage. Let us give Mr Kulmun a reply, two minutes, and then move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u55	Madam President! Issues were raised here, such as CETA, the Free Trade Agreement and international cooperation in general. Of course, it must be remembered that at the time the Mining Act was revised in 2011 — and the previous one was from 65 C.E. — that ten years were being prepared for that new update. And when mining was opened to foreign investments, it was of course the Eta era in 94, and this is the history. And, of course, the CETA agreement requires equality. At the same time, we must act on an equal footing with all the actors in the Constitution, and we cannot, through nationality, limit them in any way, and our legislation is in line with the spirit of the Constitution. As far as this municipal court is concerned by the Mining Act, as has been mentioned here, this applies not only to land use legislation, environmental legislation, but also to mining legislation for my part, and the intention is that, in the context of the amendment of the Mining Act, the mining permit should be made conditional on the municipality's use of the formula. So the formula comes to the bottom of the mining legislation as well. With regard to guarantees in relation to mining legislation, I have just mentioned that, and perhaps with regard to reservations, it is possible to say that, of course, it has not been in the spirit of the law that huge areas of reserve are to be made, and perhaps more competition will then be created with regard to the kind of areas reserved. When you move on, it is noticed that there are about five thousand square kilometres of ore exploration, that is to say, in a much smaller area, and then there may be a mine in a much smaller area, so it is also important to remember and separate the exploration of geological research and then the mining activity itself at the end. Perhaps another good point is that 20 of these more than 40 mines in this country are owned in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u56	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u57	We will now proceed with the debate on item 4 that has not yet been completed. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u58	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Thank you to all the signatories for an important initiative! Concern about Finland's weak mining legislation is justified. As I pointed out earlier in the sitting, we have an unresolved problem: the consumption of natural resources is increasing and, at the same time, biodiversity is deteriorating. The market mechanism has not brought an environmental solution to this. As far as excavations are concerned, the impact on biodiversity globally and we have significant impacts. The extractive industry and mining are among the five main reasons for the endangered nature of the species. In Finland, the extractive industry actually produces about 75 per cent of the total amount of waste in Finland, and this is therefore a surplus, a pile of side stones that cause acidification, especially if they are not properly treated. There has not yet been a perfect solution to this problem. The protection of water bodies must therefore be one of the priorities for monitoring. We are committed to ensuring that water bodies do not deteriorate. Good speeches have been heard about the fact that there is no great hurry. Therefore, the legal framework and the framework conditions must be in place, and there must also be a higher level of ambition in relation to water protection. According to Tukes' data, as much as one sixth of Finland's surface area is indeed reserved for international mining companies. This is a huge area and also extends to sites of great value for nature tourism in Lapland and Saimaa and across Finland. As the representatives have pointed out here, it is incredible that even on the edges of the urban area, just next to the settlement, we can make a mining reservation very easily. Of course, this creates enormous uncertainty and also affects investment. It can be imagined that if we now have one-sixth — there may already be more than one, because these reserves come almost every day to Tukes and Tukes will then accept them consistently — we have already been reserved, so if more and more of them occur, the effects will be quite significant for Finland. In particular, a very large part of Central Lapland has been reserved. Finland must take care of the legislation. If, indeed, we cannot anticipate and manage these marginal conditions and environmental responsibility, then we can only speculate on the consequences that are partly already visible in various mine struggles, such as in the Kitkajoki region. Finland also has valuable natural resources for clean water. The entry into force of CETA, a common free trade agreement between Europe and Canada, is a matter of urgency for the reform of the Mining Act, which Parliament has already called for in the previous period. I think the idea of overgeneration as set out in the initiative is excellent. The value of excavations is an important part of the state: the excavations can only be used and exploited once. It is pointless to talk about the great effects of the mining industry if we cannot also get something out of it. Then we will have a little too small a view of our business activities. Also, not all poor deposits are necessarily worth opening up if they threaten valuable sites of natural value or, for example, tourism in Lapland, as we currently do in many places. We need a fund that will also produce something of the value of mining for future generations. It is not a municipal economy of one council term, it is a matter of using the farm only once, and the value of it must remain in hand, even for future Finns. That is why there is a need for national overall responsibility. In addition to technology leaps in environmental protection, we need alternative materials, and hopefully we will have them quickly. Fortunately, new innovation activities are underway, such as salt batteries, and there is a great deal of room for research. New material innovations are needed that do not consume natural resources and are not limited to rare minerals that may be located in very difficult places. Finally, the impact on employment: It was stated here a few times that the impact on employment is significant. In fact, the impact on employment is not significant. Some 4500 people are employed in the extractive industry, but if we take as a benchmark the tourism industry, which is often in conflict with the extractive industry, is talking about 140 000 people, and now we are talking about direct jobs in this chapter of the TEM. On any measure, 4500 jobs — or say a few thousand on top of them, if we use another estimate produced by the mining industry itself, for example — do not have a significant number of jobs. That is what I would like to say here. We can draw up statistics that show that we have about 2.5 million jobs in Finland, so there is not enough 4500 jobs to sacrifice anything for it, especially in the current situation, when environmental legislation is not sufficiently adequate and there is hardly anything left in the hands of future generations and society. The sector is rapidly robotising and employs very few people compared to the area used. — — — — Now I've spent my time. Thank you, President, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u59	Let's go over the list of speakers. We have a large number of pre-arranged speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u60	Madam President! This citizens' initiative to amend the Mining Act is a massive work sample of the activity of citizens who believe in their cause, and that is what we, the Finns of Finland, in principle, encourage and support. The initiative contains many positive elements to increase the environmental and social responsibility of miners. These too, according to the True Finns, should be promoted. However, the time from the identification of ore potential to the opening of a working mine may be decades. Similarly, the actual effects of the changes in the law will only be clear over relatively long periods of time. It is therefore essential that the impact be weighed and assessed in advance with a particularly high degree of care. In addition, such a reform must be carried out with restraint and take into account the experience of previous legislative changes. It is clear that this citizens' initiative has been prepared by clearly skilled people. However, reading it cannot escape the impression that it treats the collective trauma caused by some terrible past projects, such as Winterfell. The result is a massive and complex initiative and its impact assessment alone is a huge piece of work. Of course, it must be done properly. Of course, the amount of work in itself is not an obstacle to the initiative moving forward, and that is what it must do. Before starting work, however, it is necessary to carefully analyse how a change in the law would eliminate the real root causes of the problems experienced in such a positive way that mining activities could continue in Finland. We have no moral right to miss the raw materials of our electric cars and other products in developing countries, ruining their nature if we can produce them responsibly here in Finland. Madam President! Authorisations for these giant projects are sought on the basis of general plans and information. They are not detailed enough to ensure the best possible monitoring of the compliance of operations. Indeed, the root causes of the problems encountered in mining are very strongly related to the veracity, accuracy and realisticity of the reports received from operators for the purpose of processing the permit, the monitoring of compliance with the permit conditions and the ability of the Authority to intervene quickly and effectively in cases of non-compliance with the permit conditions. Of course, there is a need to remedy these shortcomings, and this amendment of the law is the answer. It should streamline and clarify authorisation and supervision and improve their effectiveness. In addition, in this process of legislative change, it is necessary to carefully assess the types of after-care obligations and guarantees that should be imposed on mining companies. Madam President! No well is established in Finland without continuous and extensive exploration of ore. It takes a lot of expertise and capital to find ore. The search is therefore only worth doing if its results are reasonable and take everyone's interests into account. Unnecessary difficulties in the search for ore do not solve the problems associated with mines. This should also be taken into account when the process continues. The purpose of the current Finnish Mining Act is to promote mining activities and organise the use of the sites and exploration required by it in such a way that they are socially, economically and ecologically sustainable. The aim is still valid and timely. Further consideration of the initiative should therefore focus on the root causes of the problems raised, while maintaining the operating conditions of the mining sector as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u61	Madam President! I would like to start by thanking the citizens' initiative for the thorough preparation of the initiative. The mining sector is a significant industry and employer in the Finnish economy. According to the Finnish Mining Federation, the sector employs 13,000 people directly and indirectly in Finland. The impact of value added on the national economy in the mining industry is approximately EUR 1.2 billion per year, and the turnover in the whole mining industry is over EUR 2 billion. The value of exports of metal concentrates in 2018 was 484 million. Finland has developed a significant mineral concentration with high enrichment and further processing capacity. Increasing domestic mining production helps maintain the security of supply and competitiveness of Finland's own metal industry by reducing the cost of raw materials for metal processing. The extractive industry has promising prospects in Finland, and billions of new ores have been found in our soil. True Finns welcome mining, but mining companies must be more clearly held accountable for the damage to nature and, in particular, to water bodies. Mr President! This citizens' initiative aims at a number of reforms to the Mining Act adopted in 2011. In June 2019, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy published an evaluation of the functioning of the legislation governing mining operations. The reporter and author of the report is Dr. Pekka Vihervuori. The result of the study is a number of recommendations for measures in line with this current Mining Act, now the citizens' initiative. Among other things, Vihervuori proposes that environmental permit and mining permit should be sought first and foremost in one place and processed together or even combined. As of March 2019, the permits could be applied for at one place, the Regional State Administrative Agency. Currently, the holder of a mining permit has to lodge two financial guarantees, one under the Mining Act and the other under the Environmental Protection Act. The Green Mountain report concludes that the current guarantee system is inadequate and inappropriate. Mr President! According to reports received by the rapporteur, environmental monitoring resources in ely centres have continued to decline for several years, even in an uncontrolled manner. In practice, controls are largely self-monitoring by operators and random visits are no longer carried out as a complement to this, even though there have been individual significant omissions. Serious attention should be given to improving control and its resources immediately. There is a growing shortage of clean water in the world. We have large groundwater reserves in Finland. There are about 6,000 groundwater areas in our country, about one third of which is located in the Ely Centre of Lapland. Groundwater is vitally important to maintain the property and national assets of Finns through the legislation of the Water Act. The government has begun to reform the Mining Act during the last parliamentary term, so in some respects the Mining Act needs to be amended very soon, and in that sense this citizens' initiative will come at just the right time. However, it is not as simple as first thought can be thought. Increasing the tax burden anywhere is always a matter of consideration. Any new tax must always be looked at in a comprehensive way. Mining is inevitably expensive, so it would be good if the revenue from the mining tax could also be passed on to mining locations, provided that such a tax is imposed. According to the Environmental and Energy Policy Programme of the Finns Party, the Mining Act needs to be changed in such a way that the community, society and landowner benefit more from minerals mined by international companies. The domestic ownership base of mining companies must also be strengthened. All components that are valuable or, on the other hand, pollution in the environment must be recovered from the presence of multi-metals. In Talvivaara alone, the amount of uranium goes into a waste heap each year, which is largely enough for the needs of Finnish nuclear power plants. Madam President! The clean nature of my constituency Lapland is delicate and uniquely beautiful. Tourism is a very important and growing industry in Lapland. The environmental obligations of mines operating in the region must be ensured by reforming the Mining Act and rigorous monitoring of operations. In this way the unique nature of Lapland will not be damaged and the tourism industry and mining can live in harmony. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u62	Madam President! I would also like to thank the people who launched the citizens' initiative and the signatories for bringing this important issue to Parliament. This citizens' initiative highlights the genuine problems of the current Mining Act. The Mining Act really needs to be reformed, because the current law does not protect local residents or the environment enough. For us in the north, the threat of mines is commonplace. Under current legislation, mining reserves are not protected from nature reserves, sensitive natural sites, tourism and recreational activities. Many people have constant fear and powerlessness in the face of large corporations. Legislation does not protect people and nature, and there are few ways to influence this, both local people and municipalities. I will give you three examples of what kind of mines are currently planned for in Northern Finland. The Syöte National Park is a beautiful complex established in the Pudasjärvi and Taivalkoski region in 2000. The unique winter landscape of the feed is the slopes of danger covered by tyckylium trees, which can be admired over fells and dangers, as well as the bogs that remain unresected. The mining company has made a mining reservation next to the Syöte National Park. The mining reserve is located between the parts of the national park and nature reserves in an area with significant natural values and is part of the whole of nature tourism and recreational use. The feed is a popular hiking and recreation area, and there are also plenty of leisure apartments in the area. The mining company’s reservation is located about a mile from Syötekylä. Even in Kuusamo, the nearby area of the national parks is not safe. Kuusamo is known to many for its thrillingly beautiful landscape. People who love nature live there, and this summer there was a record number of summer travelers. The number of overnight stays in Ruka-Kuusamo area grew by 15 per cent from last summer. However, the growth of tourism is overshadowed by the struggle with the mining company. The mining company has applied for a permit for ore exploration in the vicinity of Oulanka and Riisitunturi National Park in the area of 1,300 hectares. Significant river basins Kitkajoki and Kitkajärvi are located in the ore exploration area. In Kuusamo, nature tourism alone is a sector with hundreds of jobs. The mine, on the other hand, would be small and the amount of ore and minerals it produces would be small, but the damage to the site would be great. In fact, the City of Kuusamo tried to prevent the expansion of mining activities by changing the strategic general formula. In the formula, mining activities were limited from the potential uses of the area. The former owners of mining projects in the region filed a complaint against the change in the formula to the administrative court, and the administrative court and later the Supreme Administrative Court found the change illegal this year and last year. The mining company has power that cannot be controlled by the municipality, even if it threatens jobs, livelihoods and the strategic development of the municipality. As a last example of the problems of current legislation, I would like to raise the presence of Viiankiava swamp and Sakat in Lapland. The deposit of the Sakat is located in the Viiankiava swamp area, protected both as Natura 2000 and as a bog protection area. Viiankiapaa is one of Finland’s most important and major abscesses. Many endangered species of birds and plants are found in the area. Now, however, a well is being planned under this rare and significant swamp of natural value. To start mining would require a partial dismantling of nature reserves, and there will never be any guarantee that nature will not be destroyed in such a risky project. The lost nature can never be restored in the same way if it is destroyed. These example projects, which are not specific cases, are clearly in conflict with the general and private interests. Tourism, recreation and nature values do not weigh on these projects. The citizens' initiative therefore proposes that permits for mining minerals should only be granted on the basis of an adequate overall social assessment. The authorisation could be granted ‘ifthe action concerned is addressed as more useful than harming theimpact on the environment, people, economic activities and society’and ‘notreplaced by natural values, This is exactly how new mining legislation needs to be developed. The amendment to the Mining Act is an extremely important project.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u63	We're going to the list of speakers. There are a lot of speeches here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u64	Madam President! To begin with, thank Mr Pitko for his truly eye-opening and fine speech. Mining Act Now there is a very important and carefully prepared citizens' initiative which is tightening and sparring the government now in the process of reforming the Mining Act. Thank you to all those who have worked for the initiative and those who have signed it for their very important work in favour of Finnish nature and sustainable mining. It has already been said that around one-sixth of Finland’s surface area is reserved for mining companies and about 10 per cent of these reserves are located in Natura sites. The Finnish mining industry mined 124 million tonnes of soil a year. Less than a fifth of this will end up in further processing. We are therefore talking about an industry which has a very large environmental impact, an industry which, in the wrong place and in irresponsiblely implemented, destroys nature and significantly harms people's lives and livelihoods. Currently, the environmental, economic and social impact assessment of mines is not comprehensive and there is insufficient monitoring of mining activities. That is why the Mining Act must be reformed without delay. Madam President! In Finland, responsible mining activities will be needed in the future in order to provide us with sustainable valuable metals, for example, for the needs of the battery industry. However, mining must be a prerequisite for greater benefit to society, the environment, people and businesses than to harm them. New mining projects should be undertaken using careful consideration and taking into account their overall sustainability. It is of paramount importance that we increase the circular economy in the mining industry. A determined improvement in the recycling of metals and other minerals must be made, and new technologies must be invested in order to minimise the need for virgin raw materials in the future as the need grows. Clear circular economy targets must be set for the mining industry. Madam President! Like the citizens' initiative, I consider it an important starting point for the reform of the Mining Act to be that mining minerals in Finnish soil are designated as the property of society. Non-renewable resources must belong to society, not to the company that first finds them. The autonomy of municipalities, landowners and Sámi from their own regions must be safeguarded in the reform of the law. Another important starting point is the cessation of exploration and mining activities in nature reserves, in their immediate vicinity, and in places with natural values such as the conditions for the establishment of a nature reserve. The legislation must also ensure that the repair of environmental damage does not fall under the responsibility of society, for example in the event of the bankruptcy of a mining operator. Madam President! The safety and environmental sustainability of mines must be guaranteed with sufficiently strict environmental permits and controls. Mining permits should not be granted before an appropriate environmental impact assessment is carried out. We do not want any more Winterfell or any smaller environmental disaster. I would like to highlight one more aspect of the environmental impact of mines and their monitoring and evaluation. It is problematic that the authorities refuse to protect commercial secrecy by making public information on the environmental impact of mining projects. According to the law, the protection of trade secrets as defined in the Act on Publicity must be waived if the protection of trade secrets jeopardises or undermines the public interest, such as environmental protection. The EU Environment Directive explicitly and unambiguously restricts the scope of business secrecy in relation to environmental information. Furthermore, according to the Court of Justice of the European Union, environmental information must be public because citizens must be able to monitor the accuracy of environmental protection measures and decisions. In terms of public and participatory empowerment, there is an unacceptable situation if some of the information on environmental protection is confidential. In order to clarify this issue, I intend to leave a written question on the public access to information on the environmental impact of mining projects. Madam President! The Mining Act must be reformed without delay. Mr Kulmuni said earlier in his speech that the matter was coming to Parliament in the course of next year. It is also important that mining legislation should be considered as a whole, as Mr Mikkonen has said here. Among other things, the links between the revision of the Nature Conservation Act and mining legislation must be carefully investigated.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u65	Mr President! It is important that we talk about amending and reforming the Mining Act with this citizens' initiative. Many of the problems raised in the public domain are related to environmental protection, and it is true that the coverage of environmental protection needs to be improved, but some of them are also related to other issues than the actual Mining Act, but it is also important to look at the need for reform of the Mining Act. One example of what has been said in public about mines is how the mining industry bears responsibility for these problems when mining stops. Clearly there is room for improvement. I was on the law committee last season, and we had a change in bankruptcy law. It would have been the case that mines need to improve their collateral back when operations start and operations are under way, which means that the company is fully liquid and able to pay the guarantees. So we still have mines in Finland that do not pay any guarantees at all because they comply with its old legislation. Unfortunately, this amendment to the bankruptcy law last spring in the Committee on Legal Affairs stopped at the point where some of the professors wanted it in the Constitutional Committee and we had to send it to the Constitutional Committee at the beginning of the year, and because there was so much congestion, it did not come to the Legal Committee by March. I therefore hope that the current government will dig up this amendment to the bankruptcy law, the last government proposal, and bring it to Parliament, because it is important that the mines bear that responsibility when they are able to do so and not that society will then be left to clean up after it has gone bankrupt. Well, then, another important point is that we can improve these possibilities for municipalities to influence mining activities. After all, municipalities usually have the opportunity to influence different industrial activities through zoning, but since a different process is being carried out in the mine, we start to study minerals and so on, so on, it does not mean that zoning is managed in the same way as in other industrial projects. That is why I see it important to be able to bring in some new kind of process for planning, in a way to discuss with the residents of the municipality and with the municipality whether a municipality area is suitable for that mining activity. It also includes certain types of business needs, such as the legitimacy and coexistence of tourism and mining activities in Lapland, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u66	Madam President! Indeed, we must thank the active citizens on this issue too, that such an important theme can be discussed in the great Chamber of Parliament. Mining and mining-based metal industry plays an enormous role in the Finnish economy. It has had it historically, and it seems that in the future this importance will only increase even further as demand for various metal products and minerals in the world is increasing exponentially. Mr President! However, in this debate it is good to distinguish clearly between exploration and mining. In fact, exploration rarely leads to mining, but if the exploration did not take place, then, of course, there could be no mining activity at all in the end. I understand that this is the ratio used in the industry that one out of a thousand discoveries will eventually lead to some form of mining. Knowing how few of these discoveries occur, it must be said that those who seem to be categorically opposed to responsible Finnish mining activities in this Chamber may be quite unconcerned. These mines aren't born here like mushrooms in the rain. But, indeed, on this ore hunt — I would like to say, Mr President, that I am sure we all agree that geothermal heat is an excellent way of saving the environment in energy production. In practice, geothermal heat is installed in every small house in Finland today. When we go to municipal or city hall to apply for a building permit, a permit usually comes on the market for the construction of a well of land heat at a depth of about two hundred meters, and we all agree that this is a good thing. These land - heat wells are made for the yard, where we live, where hundreds of other people live, and that is a good thing. And then, if someone goes into the woods and drills a much narrower, 200 - meter - deep borehole, then even the enlightened people in this hall are afraid that just as the devil himself rises up from the earth’s crust. It's not like that. It's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's a drill, it's In other words, that we fear this prospecting against any scientific basis or reasonable reasons, it is unfortunately likely to stir up concerns in landowners and in Finns in general, which are probably not appropriate, because it is useful for both the landowner and society in general, that we know what is in our soil. It is a very different matter then to allow actual mining to take place if there were to be such a valuable deposit in the earth’s crust that it would actually be examined as ore. In other words, ore is an economic term and means the kind of mineralisation that is economically viable to mine, and the way in which the ore is formed, is influenced by a lot of things, including the discussions and decisions that are being made in this Chamber. In fact, Mr President, you can get a quick donkey bridge, for example, for the previous debate on the mining tax. I believe that Finland must receive a mining tax in such a way that it will come to the location of the mine. In my opinion, the most sensible thing is that this tax is based on the value of the extracted ore, which provides fair compensation to the local community for the fact that this mining activity is carried out there. In any event, there will be significant costs for the local municipality if a mining site is created, usually a billion-dollar investment, so it is more than appropriate for the local community to receive reasonable compensation. But, indeed, Mr President, this should not confuse the mining tax mentioned in my party's statements, for example, with the fact that this would only be based on these mined tonnes, because it would indeed lead to an action against sustainable development by, for example, the fact that such a less rich deposit in connection with the same mineralisation could probably not be fully exploited economically, which would of course be contrary to the principles of sustainable development if, in any case, the entire mining and enrichment infrastructure were invested in the region. But again, Madam President, if I may conclude by saying that it is really a case-by-case matter whether the mine is a good mine or possibly undesirable: it is clear that we have great examples of how mining has brought sustainable prosperity to the region, work and livelihood for decades, even centuries. Perhaps the brightest crown jewel in Finland is the mine of Elijärvi, which enables the Tornio steel factory. And when the Green Representative has called for the recycling of metals to be increased, my view is that the Tornio steel plant is actually the largest single recycling plant in the world. They bring scrap iron around the world, and then to recycle it into the world’s finest stainless steel, it is required that this virgin chromium ore be obtained from the mine of Elijärvi, the centre of Kemi, practically, from beneath the ground. This ferrochrome can then be added to the steel produced there, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u67	Madam President! The citizens' initiative to amend the Mining Act submitted to Parliament is very interesting and timely. The initiative aims to influence the shortcomings of our country's mining legislation. Mining legislation is no longer fully in line with time requirements and, in particular, it is not in a position to control certain shortcomings in mining operations. One of these issues that requires improvement is guarantees. Underlyed guarantees do not cover the cost of society in situations where environmental damage occurs and the mining company does not want to take responsibility or go bankrupt and cease its operations. In this respect, the responsibility of the miners must be increased, because cleaning up the tracks must not be borne by taxpayers. There are currently mines in our country that do not have these guarantees at all. It should be noted that the vast majority of mines and mining companies operate in an orderly and responsible manner. However, at its worst and when it fails, mining can cause significant damage to the environment in the region and cause many harm to the environment, livelihoods and people. Therefore, the guarantees paid by the mines must be at the right level and cover the costs of closure and cleaning, which are not necessarily covered by guarantees under the Environmental Protection Act. Another flaw in our mining legislation is that the wealth on Finnish soil is as if everyman’s right to money is available to anyone. Society must be adequately compensated for the exploitation of our non-renewable minerals, for example in the form of a mining tax. Further, the Environmental Protection Act needs to be extended with the forthcoming revision of the Mining Act. Investments in mining are very long-term, as well as potential problems and damage that may affect the region for a very long time, even for generations. The Government must be determined and consistent when drafting legislative proposals on the regulation of mining activities in such a way that these shortcomings are taken into account. This citizens' initiative also needs to be carefully assessed and it must be ensured that the shortcomings it contains are resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u68	Mr President! Many of us know the American senator’s saying that everyone has a right to his or her own opinions but not to his or her own facts. Why do I make this statement in this context? When we think of the mining industry and this citizens' initiative, the debate that has taken place here and, in particular, the civil debate that is taking place, unfortunately, the debate is also going on with the wrong information and images, and they also create threats for citizens. People fear that there will be a mine in the vicinity of the region on the very subject, but often they fear that there will be a mine in the area without cause. Why is that unwarranted? Because communication may have been misunderstood. Now,for example,the term ‘mine reserve’ is used,for example,that a mine reserve close totheBreed National Park has been made,soit may be pictured thatthe mine site This reservation, in the Mining Act, means that an operator who wants to look for ore in a region can make a reservation, which means that he has the privilege then of applying for that ore search permit. He will submit a reservation notification to Tukes, who will then prepare his ore search permit. It has nothing to do with a mine coming into the area. One out of a thousand ore-hunting projects leads to a mine. When it comes to exploration and mining, they do not in themselves have much to do with each other because of the fact that exploration is a scientific research activity and very rarely leads to a mine. There, of course, is the background to finding minerals — not in the soil, as someone here said, but in the bedrock — and then they could be used. But when it comes to power rights, we do not have a system of takeovers in the sense that whoever finds them should set up a mine. He only has priority among the operators, if such a permit is sometimes granted, nothing else, and then, quite separately, we wonder whether there are conditions for the mine, and it must also, of course, have environmental permits and water permits and so on. That is why I personally think it is important that the decision-makers always speak with the information that would at least be truthful and therefore give the right impression that we would not foment unnecessary fears on people when there are enough and contradictions with regard to land use today — and even inciting. It is clear that it often confuses us if we see that there are hundreds of square kilometres or thousands of square kilometres of areas reserved for exploration of ore from one company, that why such a vast area immediately, that it would not be worth leaving a more restricted area. But even then, it is good to really remember what it is about: really, this ore exploration is really a scientific research activity that has no lasting impact on nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u71	Madam President! Clean, diverse nature and a comfortable environment are our riches, for which we must also take responsibility in the mining sector. Local people should be allowed to participate and influence matters concerning their own environment. The parties concerned should be heard adequately. Municipalities must be given zoning to decide what kind of mining activities are possible in the municipal area, as is stated in the Government Programme. The Mining Act is quite new, but it requires precision repairs. Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers, who are raising important details. Nature, residents, nature tourism, the region's livelihoods, municipal affairs should be taken into account when carrying out sustainable mining operations. The mining industry and the further processing of its products are important for our countries and regions. Electric car batteries need their minerals and high, environmentally friendly technology for raw materials. I agree with Mrs Holopainen that new innovative materials should be developed and resources allocated to them. However, minerals are still needed and must be provided responsibly. It is important that Finland develops into a successful and environmentally friendly mining country. Finland remains highly dependent on imports of metal concentrates. Only 10-30% of the raw materials used in metal processing come from the country of origin. Active mining brings work to mineral exploration, mining companies' various tasks, further processing of metals, mining companies — measurement, monitoring, maintenance and works — machinery and equipment manufacturing, where Finland is also an internationally important operator. All of this involves high levels of innovation and research. The impact is wide. Of course, the figures vary depending on what is included. In recent years, much has been said about the fact that mining only leaves the disadvantages in mining areas with limited benefits. We need legislation to ensure that the exploitation of non-renewable resources does not harm the environment and the regions where the mines are located. It should be recalled that in the 2011 Mining Act, landowner compensations were raised. The law takes better account of the need to ensure exploration and mining conditions, environmental considerations, citizens' rights, landowners' rights and municipalities' influence. The criteria turned out to be strict. This citizens' initiative proposes a number of details, which should be carefully analysed and evaluated for their effectiveness in order to put the Mining Act in order. The Centre stresses that environmental and social impacts are part of mining activities throughout the mine's life cycle. Further processing of minerals should be carried out mainly in Finland, where it is worth developing a viable mining cluster right from research to further processing. At the same time, we must insist on the diversity of our fine nature. Our legislation must allow ecological compensation for mining activities, regardless of the size of the project. There is also a need for reform of insurance systems. You should move to the Natural Resources Fund, which would cover the threat of environmental pollution and damage situations and which would lead to the management of a possible bankruptcy. Mr President! It is necessary to clarify how regulation currently allows the use of waste or mining side streams as resources in mining. Regulation must be changed to support the circular economy. I am in favour of a mining tax that provides a reasonable compensation to society, which is of benefit precisely to the location of the mine, taking into account nature, residents, tourism, other livelihoods, so that future generations also have the opportunity to enjoy clear-water lakes and streams.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u72	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Indeed, there is an urgent need for an overall picture of the ecological, economic and social impact in Finland, and it has been required here by a number of representatives, and the Government Programme has committed itself to reforming the mining legislation, both the mining law and the other legislation that affects it. Climate change has been mentioned here a few times. In my previous speech, I pointed out that natural biodiversity, which is crucial to climate change, is also at risk as a result of the effects of mining. As the consumption of natural resources increases, biodiversity is deteriorating, and I repeat here that about the fifth largest cause of the threat of species is mining and mining globally, whether in Finland or elsewhere. We would also have a significant impact if a large part of the reservations were to be made, and I repeat that already 75% of the waste in Finland is due to mines. You can check it on Statistics Finland's website, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u76	Mr President! In that previous speech, I spoke about these guarantees and how the amendment of the bankruptcy law, unfortunately during the last period, stopped there from being judged by the Constitutional Committee, and then about the fact that municipalities should have a better chance, either through zoning or through some other element, to be able to make an assessment of it after the prospecting of mining, if it does — when Mr Autto here said that only one of the thousand ore exploration permits would become mining activities. It has also been said quite a lot that municipalities would have the opportunity to do this kind of social contract or similar. Of course, it could also be voluntary, but I see that, here too, as regards the need for a mining law, it would be good to discuss it, i.e. if a mine was set up, then it would be good to have a discussion with the municipality about such a certain type of social responsibility, because many tax revenues come to the state and they do not remain in the local economy, and hence municipalities could also become income other than tax revenues and mining could be social responsibility there regionally carrying. But then to this environmental protection. It's a warrant. We therefore have the current mining law in force, or came into force from the beginning of 2011, and unfortunately, unfortunately, none of the current mining activities are in line with its law as regards the application.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u79	Madam President! Of course, the concerns of the citizens' initiative makers are justified to such an extent that mining is likely to increase very strongly in these climate projects in Finland too, at least under enormous pressure. And even now a little discussion to pave the way for such statistics, when these were once here wanted to be presented. If we think, Mr President, that the entire world's fleet of cars would be electrified, today's technology would require so much cobalt that the current production would take 866 years to mine the necessary amount of cobalt. It is quite clear that children in the Congo will have to dig hard enough to extract the cobalt if these mines do not come to countries where there is proper technology and responsible legislation to ensure that development is sustainable from all angles. This will mean that, for example, Finland, where it is known that there is cobalt in that bedrock, is under enormous pressure. The authors of the citizens' initiative are absolutely right in doing so — and I believe that every aspect of this Chamber has been called for — that mining in Finland should be sustainable. I am glad that only a few interventions have categorically tried to find ways of combating mining, because the only thing at the end of that road is that mining will then increase in Congo and elsewhere, where it will certainly be unsustainable both from an environmental point of view and socially. In this respect, it is good that we can have a concrete debate on how to make mining in Finland more sustainable. In order to move forward, a situation in which we can promote sustainable mining — an activity that brings jobs and livelihoods to Finns and, therefore, under the circumstances of our high technology and our very strict environmental legislation, globally reduces environmental damage and emissions — would require an unspeakable debate. In that sense, I would see for myself that we would not stir up concern by talking about one sixth of Finland being reserved and that there will be a huge loss of diversity in the future if mining activities are created in these areas — because there will not be any. It is quite clear that one sixth of Finland does not come to harness mining activities. So it is a question of a fraction of one per cent of what is needed for the actual mining districts, if there are any ores, and there are them, as I described, for example, in relation to that cobalt, the huge demand for it. But that is why responsible discussion is needed about the rules of the game that can be used to open mines. And it also requires the resources of the authorities in order to be able, together with the industry, to carry out an assessment of where the sustainability criteria are met. In this respect, the fact that statistics are presented for the purpose of creating threats and intimidation is not a good thing, in my view. And this statistical presentation that mining produces 75 per cent of Finland's waste: well, most of the mining side stone is generated in Sodankylä, Sotkamo and Siilinjärvi. However, it is difficult to think that 75 per cent of Finland’s waste is caused by war villagers, Sotkamo people and herring lakeers. How would this really sound to you, ladies and gentlemen? [MariHolopain intermediate call] That is to say, the statistics are now being presented in a rather purpose-oriented way, if of course the statistics are correct, if the starting point is to accept that our bedrock is waste as a side stone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u80	Madam President! Representative Salmon here earlier said that false information is now being presented regarding the Syöte National Park. I would like to answer this: Tukes has specifically granted a reservation to the company on 20.6.2018 next to the Syöte National Park. Congressman Salmon hinted that there was talk here. [Markus Salmon Interval] It's a different matter, but in my speech, I've been talking only about the mining reserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u81	And let's remember in the conversation that we call you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u82	Mr President! If we call the reservation a mining reservation, it gives a misleading impression that the area is reserved for mining activities, when the question is simply that the reservation means seeking the privilege of seeking ore in that area. And then in a responsible speech, even if some media use the mining reserve term — the media often use the wrong terms — responsible actors have the task of using such terms that describe it better and do not give the wrong impression. If we say that huge mining provisions have been made in or near the Syöte National Park, then it becomes a picture that there is a mining or a well being planned. That has never been the case at any time. Of course, it is not a matter of charity when you look for ore, but it is not, in principle, any such reprehensible activity. It is up to society to set the limits within which exploration of ore can be carried out and where mining can then be carried out, and as I have said in many speeches, I believe that these limits are based on the need to be ecologically sustainable, socially sustainable and economically sustainable. This gives me the opportunity to move on to what has been mentioned here, for example in this case in Kuusamo, which is probably my last speech on this subject. It is quite clear to me that if the Kuusamo Council has taken a decision and wants — if not unanimously, at least by a very large majority — that there will not be a well there, and if the fact that they are able to manage it in planning requires some clarification of the legislation, then that clarification must be made. Today, the starting point is that the municipality is, in principle, able to prevent mining through the zoning monopoly, and this is the case because it is a social licence. It is not a legal concept, but it means that it is about the acceptance of the people in the region. The second point is this question of the side stones which Mr Helpto, in his excellent speech, also touched on. I also think that we should invest in this circular economy of mining and regulatory change in Finland so that we can make more use of these side stone streams that are classified as waste in the future as raw material, so that they are not waste, but raw materials for future products, so that we can enter an efficient circular economy. Finally, I would like to raise one point which has not yet been raised here, and that is that I believe that the use of land for mining should also be made possible by so-called ecological compensation. It is clear that if we set up a mine, that area will be taken out of other land use, used for mining, and if some natural values are lost, then it should be possible to compensate for them elsewhere, to transfer to permanent protection areas where biodiversity as a whole would not suffer but even improve through this. In other words, sustainable mining is needed, but it must be sustainable. In a way, we should not go into it to build any such impressions that it is basically a bad thing if we here also use these devices, which we all now have before us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u83	Mr President! At the heart of all policy-making must be the principle that we leave Finland in a better condition for our posterity than our generation has received it in due course. Above all, this principle applies to environmental protection. Protecting the beautiful nature of our country is literally national defence. Each of us owes this not only to our own children but also to all mankind. It is an honor to keep this promise for posterity. When I campaigned in the spring elections for MPs, I promised to do everything I could for clean nature, be it water, forests or swamps. I therefore welcome this citizens' initiative as well. That is the necessary opening of the debate. Finland’s current mining law had as such become obsolete at its birth in 2011. It does not take into account the fundamental fact that natural ruiners must pay fair compensation for the damage caused and, of course, clean up their mess. At present, large international mine giants can at worst neglect environmental obligations. For example, in the event of bankruptcy or the depletion of ore assets, such an operator may at worst disappear and fail to fulfil its obligations. So profits are private, but losses and responsibilities fall on taxpayers, and that is not a market economy at all. I am, to the greatest extent, a supporter of free market capitalism. I also agree with the use of natural resources in the pursuit of commercial profit. However, freedom does not work without responsibility and without a legislative framework that ensures that the polluter also pays and that the messer has an obligation to clean up. For this reason, it is correct that mining is conditional on, for example, participation in the accumulation of the fund to cover these environmental obligations. It is also necessary to ensure that the vast national wealth that rests in the depths of our country's basic rock is not exploited without reasonable compensation not only for landowners but also for our nation. Finland is extremely prosperous for many minerals. There are many minerals in our soils that are used, among other things, in the production of advanced information technology. That is why Finland must not become a developing country whose natural resources are deposited in the pockets of venture capitalists by international companies without the mother country receiving reasonable compensation, for example, for mining tax or royalties. Mr President! I hope that Parliament will speed up the implementation of the updated Mining Act. In particular, the Mining Act should be updated in such a way that there are clear rules of play in taking over mining reserves, the rights of landowners and municipalities to influence mining and exploration will be improved, the mining operator will be subject, for example, to a mining tax based on the value of minerals, the transparency obligations of mining companies and the environmental liability of prospectors and mining operators will be increased by means of guarantees or separate funds, for example, to which mining operators pay an annual fee. I would like to thank the Rinne Government for having a clear record in its programme of progress, and I feel that this is a matter that goes beyond party and government and opposition borders. The topic is particularly important in my constituency as well as in the whole of northern Finland. We need action now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u84	Mr President! This is where they asked for these statistics. According to Statistics Finland, Finland's mines actually generate a huge amount of waste, nine times more than the other industries combined, and it is difficult to figure out what would be the kind of argument that we might say that this is not the case, i.e. do those piles of waste disappear from there in some way if we question this statistics? Maybe it's better to stick to the facts. Finnish mines mine 124 million tonnes of soil a year. Of this vast amount of material, only less than one fifth will end up in further processing. According to Statistics Finland's report, 44 mines operated in Finland in 2017, of which metal ore was mined in nine mines. Since this 124 million tons in volume does not necessarily tell much, Statistics Finland’s statistics and the following news show it in such a way that this equivalent amount of concrete could be used to build 60 parliament buildings in each of Finland’s municipalities and still remain over. Elikka is a genuine problem or challenge that inevitably relates to mining and causes the most significant amount of waste in Finland. I don't think we should deny that. It is a question of the responsibility of society, and it is also a question of global responsibility. By means such as corporate responsibility legislation, we must influence the responsible operation of mining companies wherever they are, in South America or in Finland's Lapland. Now, with regard to our legislation, which we can of course have more influence on here, we still have something to do, as has been said here, especially with regard to environmental responsibilities, and then with the EU arenas we can make it possible for us to make use of EU-wide corporate responsibility legislation, and here in Finland, too, this is where the Government Programme is now taking it forward. We need consequences and we need to take environmental impact into account in every country, that is clear, but the fact that we are talking about the problem of another country and we are not doing anything about it does not remove our own problems. I am also a little surprised by the talk that the citizens should not be concerned in any way or that this concern is now being created here. I think that concern has arisen among Finns because of our legislation and also because of a few slightly more serious environmental violations, which are not just represented by Winterfell. Then, of course, it is also known that the natural resource economy and extractive activities always cause conflicts and conflicts, that is clear. If you take away the other livelihoods of a municipality or the living space of a region or village community, of course it will cause conflict. Then we would have to consider the visionaries who are prepared to exploit these very weak deposits in sites of high natural value, how we are moving away from the inhabited mining industry, because this is the situation in many countries, of course, that people are being displaced from the mining industry. In some countries, various means of exile are used or different instincts are used. In a rule of law such as this one in Finland, one would have to think about those incentives. This is, of course, one thing which should be taken into account in order to compensate for this loss, for example in the form of a reduction in the value of one's own home, cottage or company, to the detriment of those who suffer in neighbouring areas — because it rarely brings benefits to the inhabitants. Things like this need to be considered. I think it is a little irresponsible to talk about people being intimidated. Yes, we have to talk about things as things, and if citizens' concerns move forward in the form of an initiative, then surely that concern must be answered and not underestimated as ignorance. I think that is an unfortunate attitude towards citizens' initiatives. For example, the Finnish Nature Conservation Association has also pointed out whether there should be a class action in environmental law cases, which these mining projects have also caused in some cases. There is now a huge flaw in the fact that some of these companies are multi-billion-size companies, i.e. even compared to the Finnish State — for example, Anglo American’s $27 billion turnover is huge — that is, how is it possible in any way for individuals or village communities or small municipalities to cope with know-how and these judicial processes? Of course not. In that sense, it is very important that this responsibility is national and, in particular, legislative, so that it is not left to individual people and indeed to individual municipalities. Perhaps tells us about this Finnish attitude that one person wrote to this initiative’s forum on social media: ‘Now, however, without worrying about it,there has been some participation in the transformation of the mining law, even though it has been a small part of it. At least I signed and sent a letter to the ministers expressing my concern as a layman. A little person can't do much in front of money. Good us!’ This is a time of optimism, but on the other hand, the Finns still have an approach that respects the law and the rule of law, but I will not know if we do not correct these clear shortcomings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u85	Mr. Autto, one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u86	Mr President! With Mrs Holopainen, we will certainly share the common view that there are things that are important now in mining legislation to take forward. I understand that the industry, for example, fully shares this need, that we would have a mining tax, for example, which will then be able to bring to that local community the income of the mine with equal certainty. However, it may be a little difficult to understand in this criticism that, in the case of Sodankylä, in the case of such large players, it is not possible, of course, for Anglo American to open a well in Sodankylä — neither in the current legislation nor certainly in the future — if the villagers of war did not wish that the mine would be opened there. It is thought that Anglo American as such a major player, as you described its proportions, is able to invest enormously in the development of technology and the development of methods, such as the one mentioned there. In the Viking region, underground mining could be done, if it proves worthwhile, by means of methods that protect the water balance of its territory so that the swamp does not lose its natural value. I understand that they spend EUR 50 million on researching these methods alone, so is it not a good thing that the actor is like this, who is able to really invest in ensuring that everything is done as this hall requires, Finnish legislation and the most accurate authorities in the world in Finland require? In fact, I would ask about this when it comes to calling for such a categorical ban, even in areas that could be nature reserves. In Finland, any area could be a nature reserve. Mr President, I dare say that Finland is a truly beautiful, magnificent country and the nature of Finland everywhere so great that it could certainly be nature reserves anywhere. Take the Elijärvi mine in Kemi, for example. The mine works practically in the middle of the city, at a depth of 500 metres, I think, in an area about three kilometres wide. GTK has confirmed that at least two or three kilometres of depth is sufficient to contain this chromium ore, but perhaps even much deeper — four or even five kilometres. How deep should it be, if we now think that the natural beauty of the area would be a nature reserve — of course there is no protected area now that it has the city of Kemi, but in a situation where it has a protected area — and whether or not it has a protected area?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u87	Mr President! In particular, I referred to the imbalance caused by the problems of this current legislation and which has led to complaints to Tukes. Although municipalities, people, landowners complain, it is of no relevance to the granting of a permit to search for ore. And if there are complaints against the administrative court, how can individual people cope with these multinational corporations that have no evil purpose but have only a business purpose to exploit the ore, whatever it is? They don't have any other purpose. And, of course, all the means, all the means allowed by the legislation and those on its borders, are used to make use of it, even in some cases that have been seen in Finland. There are also very much better opportunities to influence politicians. It is therefore perhaps not far-fetched that legislative reforms such as these on the exploitation of natural resources are also a test of how well our democracy works and whether we have structural corruption or not. Of course, I hope there is no such thing as corruption. But, of course, we can assume that, within the framework of our legislation, election funding, for example, is one possibility to influence decision-makers. Very actively the companies are now operating, making reservations. There's nothing wrong with that. You can't roll responsibility to companies. We have to roll that responsibility over to us, and we have to figure out what kind of information we're going to get. Do we draw our conclusions from mines or from any other matter, based on filtered information from the company’s point of view, or do we do it on the basis of as independent research as possible? Are we also listening to the citizens we represent here in Parliament? This is what it's all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u88	Mr President! Indeed, with Mrs Holopainen, we fully agree with most of the points. In fact, I would like to ask whether it is a good thing or a bad thing now that there is a Kemi mine in Elijärvi that makes it possible for the Tornio steel plant, which I understand is the world's largest recycling plant, where the best stainless steel steel in the world is produced from scrap iron. So if you want to be categorically opposed to all mining, why don't they say it out loud? I say out loud that I believe that sustainable mining is needed in Finland. In order to achieve sustainable mining, we need, for example, this mining tax, which will gain greater social acceptance both in the region and, of course, in the rest of the world, and we need sufficient resources, for example, for the activities of the authorities, and, of course, when the actual operators of these projects have the main responsibility to demonstrate that they are authorised, then we can be sure that this is the case. This is what they're calling for. There are a lot of good things about this citizens' initiative, but of course there are things there that in practice would then lead to the end of exploration and thus to the end of mining activities in Finland, at least in those places where there is no view that there is, for example, 100 years to go on. In this sense, I think it would be fair to say whether you are in favour of mining in the Congo or of sustainable domestic mining.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u89	Mr President! Representative Autto asked why the mine in Elijärvi is different from the mine planned for the side of the national park. The Elijärvi mine in my birthplace in Kemi is 10 kilometers from the city, not in the city center, as you just said. It's surrounded by an economic forest. Of course, I do not have any more detailed information on natural values in my own right, but at least there is no tourism activity in the vicinity of the mine. I do not know what you referred to by the fact that some say that mining should be categorically banned. I have not heard such a thing said here myself, nor has it been said that, in the future, the area which is potentially a nature reserve... — or what you said in that situation —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u90	Mr President! It is a good thing that this is being discussed. That is the role of the citizens' initiative, even if it does not take place as such. But it brings new perspectives and just like from the deep ranks of the people, these experiences are here as the basis for decision-making. I personally would see that this kind of responsible entrepreneurship in mining and nature conservation can be combined, and therefore Finland should be developed as a model country for mining operations. The Centre considers it important for local people to be involved in this decision-making because they are the experts on local conditions, i.e. the right of municipalities to decide, through planning, whether mining is possible in the municipality's territory, I consider it very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u91	Mr President! I do not think it is appropriate for us here in Parliament to decide on individual mines, but on principles and the framework conditions under which different activities in society can be carried out. These include, for example, the Greens' objectives of making non-renewable natural resources a value to society, introducing a tax that really leaves something for society, including an overall benefit in the permit process, and then, for example, ending the exploration of ore in nature reserves, which, of course, also include Natura sites. These are examples of which we have taken forward the framework conditions, and then, of course, they should be evaluated when the laws are put into practice, how things work. Surely, then, there is still the question of how the regulatory authority will implement the legislation and whether there will be resources there. It is an important point and a major flaw in Finland at the moment. Not everything can really be put in the hands of small municipalities. It is clear that there is also a need for national reflection and national competence, because there are indeed big companies at stake. I think it would be naive to assume that good hope or good will can only succeed, and that is why it is good that this Parliament has so strongly pointed out that we have legislative shortcomings that need to be corrected, and that is what we are doing here. No one has suggested that all activities should be banned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u94	Mr President! I agree that these shortcomings in the legislation are now being corrected, and these issues raised by the citizens' initiative deserve careful consideration. The Centre also agrees with this tax, which should become adequate compensation for society, and it can also work. Of course, I would like to raise the same problem that Mr Autto has raised, namely that these problems relating to excavations will not go away, because if we close our eyes and transfer mining to developing countries where these environmental requirements and the status of workers are at a much worse level than here in Finland. That is why it is very important that we now develop Finnish legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u95	Mr President! If one speaker has come to the impression that problems have been raised, then surely it must also be taken into account that there are effects and, of course, the effects of the use of natural resources are different from those of any other sector. I also think it is a good idea to speak out about the negative effects, because it is the same state where, in a certain way, in many cases there is a struggle between nature or people or other livelihoods. In some cases, of course, they are very coordinated. But in itself it is not just the same industry as many others. It will require a lot of space and will always have a huge environmental impact, even though it will, of course, be pursued as well as possible. But they can't be denied. Perhaps that global responsibility is something worth implementing through corporate responsibility legislation, as I mentioned earlier. In the sense of simple comparisons and throws, that somewhere else production then increases, should also be based on facts. If demand for minerals increases, then demand will increase in those other countries too, which is not to say that we here will now deal with the increase in demand for minerals. It is a global demand and a global phenomenon and also a global challenge in terms of the loss of biodiversity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u96	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u97	Madam President! The government's proposal to amend the Law on Regional Development and the Financing of Structural Fund Projects is under discussion. The aim of the proposal is to add to the existing law new national provisions on the management of the budget intended to support sustainable regional growth and vitality. Some technical changes are also proposed. The Government proposes that the appropriation replaces the previous appropriation for launching regional innovations and experiments in the Sipilä government. The proposal relates to the State's draft budget for 2020 and is therefore intended to be dealt with in connection with it. Regional policy is a strong entry in the Government Programme. EUR 15 million will be earmarked for contractual cooperation with cities and regions and EUR 5 million for the autonomous development of regions in the next year's budget. And that is precisely what is at issue in the current referral debate, and the technical changes that will then make these appropriations available next year. The aim is to build success around the strengths and characteristics of regions and cities through cooperation between different actors, to increase vitality, to encourage intersectoral activities, to pool regional resources in addition to their jointly agreed and defined objectives. The proposal in this referral debate is based on the Violent Finland package agreed in the Government negotiations. The programme therefore envisages a rapid, flexible allocation of regional development funding to regional councils. Of course, regions play a key role in promoting regional development and cooperation, and this role has been strongly taken into account throughout the Government Programme. I believe that everyone's aim is to strengthen and support regional activities in a regional context — strong, vibrant and vibrant local activity. And this is how all these regions contribute to the well-being of the whole country. This appropriation for autonomous development in the regions is intended to be used in a very diverse and flexible way and to provide tools to deepen projects promoting sustainable growth in regions and cities, as well as contract-based projects. The aim is to create a mechanism for the development of more than one region, which is at the same time important at national level. And, of course, there is also support for cooperation between local and regional authorities in the field of industrial policy. Thus, the self-development of regions will of course enable regionally based, regionally diverse, rapid, flexible pilot projects to be carried out, facilitating the emergence of globally competitive ecosystems from the local point of view and, of course, strengthening the economic structure. It is therefore important that the role of locality, regionalism be emphasised, that the role of increasing vitality be strengthened, supported. The aim of the legislative changes now under discussion is to create a flexible financial instrument for this purpose, which will be able to work as well as possible through cooperation between regions and regional authorities and other regional and local actors. And I have never heard of any of the things that have been done together that have not produced something new and positive, so I am counting on such a new form of contractualism and on the flexibility of the regions themselves and on increased resources. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u98	Mr President! First of all, thank you, Minister Kulmun, for presenting this government proposal here. Today will be 25 years from the time of the EU referendum in Finland, and one might wonder what it has to do with this motion, but it does contribute to it. In other words, first of all, when I remember that time, there was an increasing amount of talk about the development and importance of regions and regions with the EU, and then, on the one hand, the development of regions, on the other hand, was no longer just a national regional policy, but also an integral part of EU policy through the Structural Funds. And this law, by its very name, brings together the development of the regions and the Structural Funds, that is, despite the Structural Funds, national regional policy is of enormous importance to the whole of Finland, and that is why this government proposal is helping to support our national work. This government proposal implements the good regional policy line agreed in the Government Programme in practice, and the title of this item also reflects what is at stake: an appropriation to support the sustainable growth and vitality of the regions. In other words, the budget for next year is set at EUR 20 million for this. The Government’s proposal also recognises and strengthens the important role played by regional councils as regional authorities and as promoters of regional development and cooperation, as Mr Kulmuni said a moment ago. The Government's proposal supports the idea that the whole of Finland and all regions are important, and that the Government wants to contribute to the vitality and vitality of different regions and regions. This appropriation is intended to support voluntary development. The question is: what does that mean? We in the centre understand this self-development by relying on the development of the regions themselves and on what things and choices will strengthen the region's vitality, create jobs and reform, strengthen the business structure, for example, tourism. Mr President! Several recent surveys and surveys support the idea that the majority of Finns want life and activity in Finland also outside urban centres. Today's YLE poll results: more than half of the respondents would like to slow down urban development. On the other hand, a survey of Helsingin Sanomat reported in September: 70 per cent want to keep the whole of Finland inhabited. On Monday, Yle’s recent news from France reported that about 100,000 French people move to the country every year. According to a survey conducted there, nearly 60% of French people dream of moving to the country. In other words, the above examples tell me that the megatrend we have approved, urbanisation, these silent signals are intended to challenge. When I listened to Yle’s story this morning, I stayed to think about how my esteemed researcher Timo Aro commented on it and said — in this morning’s survey, indeed, more than half of Finns would like urbanisation to be curbed — that it is about resistance to change, and then not only about resistance to change but also about revenge in areas like this. Personally, I think this is a bit of a weird commentary. Perhaps we should look at things in a more positive way and not comment so negatively if things do not happen to our own mind. Finally, I would like to say that if Finns have a strong will for the vitality of Finland and the desire to have life and action throughout the country, then of course it must be reflected in our Finnish national politics, government policy and the decisions that Parliament is doing here overall. In the centre we think in that way that we need to take a bolder approach to the various means of regional policy, and it would not be bad if we took a little look at Sweden and Norway as a whole. Mr President! In these words, this motion by Minister Kulmun is very good and very appreciative of the regions, and we hope for more of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u99	Madam President! EUR 15 million will be earmarked for contractual cooperation with cities and regions next year. In addition, an additional EUR 5 million will be allocated to the autonomous development of the regions for next year. It was also agreed in the budget debate that regional transport aid would continue and it was decided to allocate an additional EUR 6 million on a permanent basis — excellent. According to the Violent Finland package of the Government Programme, the central role of regional councils as a regional development authority will continue. Unions will be allocated rapid and flexible regional development funding. I am delighted that the government is taking a stronger stance on behalf of the provinces of Finland. There's a lot of work to do. The Centre is not afraid to use the word regional policy. It is social equality and justice. Every corner of the house is equally valuable. Madam President! This is also an important step towards achieving a contractual urban policy instrument for every province. The government is pushing into a flaw that has become familiar, for example, in the city region of Seinäjoki. That is a flaw that has been the role of the interlocutor in urban policy. The Association of South Ostrobothnia and the City of Seinäjoki have drawn attention to the prevailing national urban policy and are proposing a broader picture of regional policy as a whole. Now the middle-sized regional centres and their surrounding communities, which are non-university-like, but with high development potential, are in the middle of a fallout. In recent years, the growth of the city of Seinäjoki and the urban region has been one of the fastest in Finland and is fully compared to the growth figures of the largest cities. However, it has had to solve the problems of land use, housing and transport on its own. I would like to see the MAL agreements extended to new urban centres with an urban area that fills the population base of more than 100,000 inhabitants. Mr President! Yle reported in the morning that the majority of Finns want the state to slow down urbanisation. The best way to do this is to guarantee the conditions for a good life around Finland. Each provincial centre should have a contractual urban development tool. It is to ensure the future of the provinces in Finland, a step in the direction of justice and equal treatment. The aim of regional policy is to give people freedom and the opportunity to choose where to build their lives. It is based on the strengths of different parts of the country. Regional centres and their sub-regions should be at the heart of our policy and as an equal partner. They must have the means to defend the provinces, to develop their regions and also to ensure the future of the provinces. It is the road of a new whole Finland. Mr President! Minister Kulmuni has successfully launched a study on how to increase job creation, i.e. how to work, live and work in several places — an excellent and important opening. President! The city centre supports both cities and rural areas, human freedom to choose.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u100	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking Minister Kulmun for his excellent presentation. I can say that the provinces will thank you for this. It is extremely important that Finland is developed equally for the whole country. When I look out of this Parliament, I see Finlandia House or Music Centre there. They are not only Helsinki-based and Helsinki-based buildings but also institutions that are important to Finland as a whole. You can also say that when we go to Saimaa in the summer even if we visit Saimaa, the fine lake area is a valuable area for Finland as a whole, or when a Finnish or foreigner comes to visit Lapland, it is the whole of Finland Lapland — or is the whole of Finland Savo or Kainuu and so on. So there is no point in building a confrontation, but instead we need to work together in Finland. There is every reason to see what our common interest is instead of competing with one another. When we look at the world even a little further away, Finland is really small. There are about 100 cities in China that are larger in population than Finland at the moment. That's why we have to think somewhere, that we're one and we want to take care of the whole of Finland and all Finns, all of Finland's services too. These studies referred to above, which have been most recently in public today, show that the vast majority of Finns believe that urbanisation will become excessive, that urbanisation should be limited in a certain way and that the mild phenomena and problems arising from it should be controlled. This is a good message for us here. When I looked at that result, I noticed that a very large proportion of the adherents, among others, of the True Finns, were in this position. I believe and hope that this will challenge the Finns of Peru also here in Parliament to support the excellent government proposals that build a solid Finland and a balanced regional development. Now, according to these studies, the supporters will certainly also be grateful if you do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u102	Mr President! I was allowed to be a government negotiator there in the Violent Finland Group. However, for the first time, when I was reading the mandate of our group and our negotiating table — a rather long list — I was very pleased to be involved in bringing ideas and experiences into that group of municipalities, provinces and entrepreneurship. All those things were very important to me and also very familiar with me as a result of trust and entrepreneurial careers. I take it for granted that a vibrant Finland is made up of viable regions. The area must have the best knowledge of its own strengths. However, there is also a knowledge of the different challenges facing the region. There is knowledge and familiarity with those visions and means, and it is believed that the region of its own will first be raised up at the national level and internationally on the world map. There are different provinces — and that is good, by the way. Viable provinces, on the other hand, are made up of vibrant municipalities, and then, as the motor of municipalities, they employ companies there within the municipality. According to the Vital Finland package of the Government Programme, the role of regional councils as regional development authorities will continue, and I am very pleased about this. The alliances will continue to play a key role in promoting regional development and cooperation between regions. And it is also true that the provinces do not always manage on their own, but sometimes more things can be done in the composition of several provinces. Regional development funding for regional councils will be allocated quickly and flexibly, and it was already stated in the past that regional development funding was a really good and effective element. This article on sustainable growth and support for the vitality of the regions is presented in the draft budget for 20 million euros and in the budgetary plan for 21. From next year's budget, the EUR 5 million will be allocated to the autonomous development of the provinces, as has already been heard here on several occasions, and EUR 15 million to contractual cooperation. Funding comes from one-off future investments by the government. It is great that the potential of regional councils to support the autonomous development of the regions is strengthened by the appropriation for sustainable growth and support for the vitality of the regions. This appropriation is intended to support, inter alia, the autonomous development of the regions, to reform the economic structure there and to respond to structural change challenges. As a result of this change, the federations have a flexible financial instrument at their disposal which allows for greater and stronger cooperation between regions, regional authorities and other regional and local actors. Mr President! The Centre believes that regional policy means social equality and justice. This means that a strong message is already being sent from this Parliament that Finland as a whole and all Finns are equal and equally valuable in our society. This means that people who celebrate provincial days and those fur hat embassies who sincerely care about the vitality of their own region are appreciated here. Regional policy must be reflected, among other things, in regionalisation decisions, workplace-independent jobs and equal opportunities for education across Finland. The proposal of this government is also a strong and forward-looking message to all regions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u103	Mr President! The debate on the future of the EU Structural Funds is also topical in Finland in the broader context of this government proposal. A new programming period is about to start, and many things are changing. In this context, the distribution of Structural Funds resources within Finland should be considered. Southern and Western Finland, to which my own province of Pirkanmaa belongs, is a motor for Finland's exports and growth. Its role and potential must also be recognised in regional development. The ambitious targets of the Government Programme in terms of employment rates and innovation activities will be more difficult to achieve if most of Finland were to be dropped outside regional development funds. For example, employment money must be directed to where there are unemployed people and business innovation support to where there are companies. Eastern and northern Finland has its own support for the sparsely populated northern regions, which is justified. Otherwise, the Structural Funds must treat the regions equally, as the EU has seen fit for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u104	Mr President! Yle’s recent survey of urbanization will certainly wake us all up. As Mr Vehviläinen has well said, we have already obtained similar results from many other surveys and studies. I personally feel the same way that it is not really a matter of revenge or slapping the cities in the regions, but that Finns really have a genuine desire for a vibrant Finland. This is required both in cities and on land, both in growth centres and in sparsely populated areas, i.e. regardless of the demographic outlook in their own region. In practice, this means that Finns want everyone, regardless of their place of residence, to have access to school, work, get to the services, i.e. live good, safe and healthy everyday life throughout the country. This objective seems to unite this people very strongly at the moment, as much as the desire to enter the European Championships after a long wait. In other words, Finns really want a genuinely more balanced regional development, and I believe that this objective is therefore not only a question of equality, but certainly a question of civilisation for many. Mr President! The Government Programme states that the objective of regional policy is to reduce disparities between regions and between municipalities. This, of course, requires a wide range of measures in the various administrative sectors. Thank you, Minister for Industry Corners of your determination to take up this challenge for yourself. There are many examples, but resources are allocated through Business Finland, for example, which are very important from the point of view of the vitality of the regions. I would like to ask Minister Kulmun what the government could do to ensure that areas and regions where there is no university of their own, for example, can also get better access to Business Finland's services and subsidies. And perhaps even more generally: when the will of this government programme for a vibrant Finland is clear, how would the Minister assess the effectiveness of next year's budget and the budgetary plan and the planned government measures to achieve this objective?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u105	Madam President! Thank you, Minister. On this Government's proposal to amend the Law on the Financing of Regional Development and Structural Fund Projects. By deciding on this government proposal, I believe that we support the sustainable growth and vitality of both rural, regional and major cities. I believe that this government proposal prepared under the leadership of Minister Kulmun is an excellent victory for regional policy and local democracy. I would like to support the autonomous development of regions in the process of restructuring and responding to structural change. We have structural change all over Finland. This is not a matter or a challenge that is often maligned in rural areas or in a particular region. For example, in Häme, change has now come clearly from industrial change, urbanisation and low birth rates. Services and companies also live in time: many companies change their operations or services in the face of climate change requirements or react to changes in the population at the moment. Certainly no one here has been able to ignore these demographic projections that we have just received. They're very dark reading. In my view, they place this regional development and also this government's proposal and the Structural Funds projects at a completely new level. According to the population projection, Finland's population development will become negative in all regions in 15 years' time. In other words, fewer people are born than they die. This preparation for birth and depopulation requires undivided attention, and I believe that instead of apathy, we should put our faith in the future and build up government proposals of this kind which will also strengthen the development of regions. This depopulation has been going on for almost ten years, which is why we cannot close our eyes to that need for change. There are a number of things to be prepared for at the moment. There are already, for example, various adaptable and transferable day-care solutions in the market, which are now a rescue in many areas, for example, with fewer children. This concentration of services, which is often offered as a solution, does not show itself to me as a solution; it is precisely by supporting local services and by finding clever new solutions that we can move forward, and that is what such governments are doing. We need money to implement rapid and flexible regional pilot projects and to implement other regional development policies under the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u106	Madam President! Thank you again to Minister Kulmun for presenting, preparing and bringing this really important government proposal here, and thank you for the very clever debate that has taken place so far. As we know, we in the centre have never been ashamed of the word regional policy. For us, it has always meant that people’s good everyday life is just as important, whether it is a home in the center of a big city, on the outskirts of that big city, in the suburbs, in the center of a small municipality, or just at the end of the longest gravel road in that small municipality. Mr President! For example, Mr Vehviläinen's excellent speech has already gone through some of the regional policy and people's values that Yle has reported today. According to that Yle news, the majority of Finns want the state to slow down urbanisation. In connection with this case, I had interviewed my esteemed researcher Timo Aro, but this comment I read a little confusedly and wondered what he meant by it: “I don’t think the State is going to want to do better to speed up urbanisation than to slow it down, but people, businesses and other actors will have to decide on where to find their solution than they see best. “ I am wondering, because all these people's solutions, business decisions are influenced by our decisions: transport connections, roads, railways, bridges, their condition, air traffic connections, telecommunications connections — how to operate away from where — jobs, spouses' jobs, from the company's point of view the availability of workers, access to training, continuing training and lifelong learning, access to services already guaranteed by society on the basis of the Constitution. I think that we are largely taking decisions on these very issues at the hands of the government's proposals, as we do now, and whenever we consider the budget for the next year — where we spend allo money. In other words, we are doing regional policy when we want or do not want to do it all the time when we are making decisions at state level and also at municipal level. Mr President! That is why I would like to raise the word regional policy to such a new appreciation. It only shows that we, as representatives of the people from all over Finland, bring greetings from the region and also partly defend the vitality of the region, the people, but hopefully always so that our vision of the common good remains behind it. A healthy pride in the resources of one’s territory and a desire to develop it does not mean that we are against the development and good development of other areas. As Minister Kulmuni said, it is wonderful that Finland should be different, but we do not want this beloved country to be unequaled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u107	Madam President! Finland lives from exports, our well-being is financed by the income of our export industries, and our export industries are, of course, based on long-term value chains from the strengths of the various regions of our vast country, so that balanced development is not only important and sensible, but also absolutely necessary for Finland to be a successful country in the future. From this point of view, the Government's proposal is good and well-founded, and it is great that the Government also wants to take active regional development measures, which also enable the regions to develop autonomously. It is certainly from there that the best way to see what new ideas and development measures need to be taken forward is to be seen. Of course, the concern is that this type of activity must be continuous, long-term, and not just a one-off investment, as the government is doing now. Of course, development can also be seen as an investment, but I hope that this development will not end, but that this type of balanced development of regions will continue in the future. In this respect, the fact that state property is sold and then, perhaps, with such one-off revenue, such permanent expenditure is covered is somewhat worrying. And in this respect, I think that the Government's proposal and objective are quite right, but it would be even better for Finland to step up this active regional development effort by making the government also more active employment policy measures to enable it to develop its business activities, which are driven by the potential of the regions, so that new jobs can be created. Good employment policy is also the best regional policy, and I think it is a good guide for future government action. Mr President! When the Minister is also actively here to discuss this matter, perhaps more broadly, I would like to ask for an assessment of how these regional development measures will appear in the coming years, taking into account the future financial framework of the EU, on the one hand, and the prospects for the Structural Funds period, on the other. Perhaps, Mr President, as a background, I could say that in those countries and regions where the EU's Structural Funds have been most heavily used, there is also, for some reason, the greatest criticism of EU action. Would it be even bigger if these EU subsidies had not been used? I don't know.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u108	Mr President! A good referral debate has been held here on this law to change the law on regional development and the financing of Structural Fund projects. Then we will continue in that Administrative Committee. Of course, it is important for every region — especially in recent times there has been talk of sustainable growth and vitality and of what it is made up of. It is in many areas that access is in order, that transport and logistics work. It is a question of training and jobs. We all know that for the last 20 years most of our jobs have been created specifically for micro-enterprises and SMEs. It is also about innovation and the ability of industrial policy to reform. For Oulu and Northern Finland in particular, many Structural Fund projects and others have recently been almost a lifeline for us to be able to renew our ict-breaking. I would like to ask you now that the Minister is here and has the merit and responsibility of listening to our debate: it is also important that we are able, in these financial instruments, to achieve the flexibility, agility, in which local cooperation derives precisely from the needs of regional knowledge and from the business community. What are the possibilities of this law or will the laws of these kind bring to the flexibility of various financial instruments? I also share in this Chamber one concern that has been expressed in the past few years by many e-mails from project and project workers. There is, in a way, concern that project funding does good things, but they do not go into practice when it comes to projects and projects. Someone even asked whether project plans and written outputs are more important than what that work can accomplish. At the end of the day, Mr President, it is important that we talk about regional policy. However, some of the last speeches I listened to hit my ear. A number of colleagues in the centre, who I very much appreciate, said that for them regional policy means that everyone, regardless of where they live, is equally important and equal. I don't know if it'll come from my bottom-up background when you've grown up in a small village, and from there you've pushed into the world, that it's at least worth it to me. I feel that this is why Finnish society is such a wonderful and lovable society and environment, that our Constitution says that everyone in this country is just as valuable, equal and equal regardless of their place of residence, their own background. Personally, for myself, it is not regional policy, but it is the ability to think in Finnish.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u109	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his excellent presentation and excellent presentation. I would also like to thank colleagues for a good debate. When we talk about regional development and urbanisation, urbanisation is usually presented as a global megatrend, which is also inevitable in Finland, but at the same time it is good to note that in fact urbanisation as a large-scale phenomenon has ended decades ago. China is urbanizing, my friends, for the moment. What do we have here in Finland? We have one small town with 650,000 inhabitants. For this reason, too, it is extremely important that we make sure that the resources of the whole country are used and that every person has the opportunity to build their lives and try to work anywhere in Finland. For this reason, it is extremely important that the Red Mule Government of Rinteen—Kulmun has put a balanced regional policy at the centre of its policy. I would also like to remind Mr Autto, who called for the continuing development of the work of the parliamentary working group on sparsely populated rural areas that was jointly carried out. Thank you to all the parties for that. It is incredibly good that about 70% of the proposals made by this group ended up in that government programme and that a good government is now taking them forward at this stage. Like many colleagues, I was delighted with the news this morning, that the majority of Finns would like to slow down urbanisation. I would also like to remind you of the IPCC report that urbanisation as a phenomenon is one that accelerates climate change. This is another reason why a balanced regional policy is important. When we have this global megatrend, urbanisation, we need to understand what it can mean for a small country the size of Finland. For example, urbanisation has been found to increase demand and price for clean food. People from those cities then want to go on vacations to the peace of the countryside. I strongly recommend Lapland as a target. We need to consider how to respond to this challenge. I must conclude by saying that I myself have appreciated Dr Timo Aro, but, like many colleagues, I do not understand his comments in today's paper. Perhaps they are talking about disappointment, because we have a huge number of people in this country who would like to take forward this ideology of forced urbanisation. I am very proud of the fact that Rinteen—Culpin Red Mule is a government. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u110	This has now been spent 45 minutes. I'll ask the minister if he wants to answer. Two minutes, please, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u111	Madam President! Indeed, as has been said here in the debates, in an interesting way over the past year, when major national surveys and research results have been carried out by the media, there have been quite similar messages, both from the Yleisradio side of summer 2018 and from the Helsingin Sanomat a few weeks ago — and today's news coverage has been referred to — so as far as this national debate on regional policy and regional development is very timely and it is good that it is also being made public. There was a question here from Mr Kalli regarding this business orientation and regional presence. After all, the Government invests very important investments in exports and growth efforts, especially through Business Finland. And even the research that has been carried out at the Ministry of Economic Affairs is aimed specifically at ensuring that our company throughout a country with a very different industrial structure in each region is able to obtain all the services provided by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And here, of course, the cooperation of universities of applied sciences, in general, with export companies and with the region in question is absolutely central. Mr Talvitie asked about this flexibility. It is precisely EUR 5 million that is to be put forward by the provinces now, depending on the regional and local context, and I believe that this also relates to the previous question of how to take account of these regional specificities. I would also like to say that there is a need for continuity from the last period to this period. These have so far been key project funding as well as one-off funding, as is the case now, but it is good that it comes from one parliamentary term to another. And, of course, in connection with the great debate on the European Structural Funds, the financial framework which is still under negotiation: at national level, I believe that agreement on programmes and funding will be reached, as has always been achieved, in a spirit of good cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u112	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u113	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u114	Mr President! It is extremely valuable that we make the whole of Finland flourish — that a communal living room for the capital and the whole of Finland will be built in Helsinki, Oodi, Kisatie school and Niemenkartano log school will be built in Reisjärvi, which will serve as the living room of the Reisjärvis, and where, for example, a fair will be held by the entrepreneurial students of the folk college, where you will come from a distance and a distance. Well-being Finland consists of well-being urban areas, regions, regional cities, municipalities, villages, blocks and neighbourhoods. Mr President! Today we have discussed the Government's proposal to amend the Law on the Financing of Regional Development and Structural Fund Projects. I am pleased that we will be able to spend EUR 20 million next year on sustainable growth and vitality in the regions. It will involve 15 million in contractual cooperation with cities and regions and 5 million in the autonomous development of regions. Thank you to the government and Minister Kulmun for this. There is an opportunity to increase the vitality of the regions by developing their own strengths. Take care of the conditions for a good life in different parts of our country. Areas may vary and specialise, profile, but they must not be unequaled. Schools must not run too far — nor should other services. When traffic connections and communication connections work, they allow many dreams to move into the middle of nature to clean, near-neighbourly food and to work remotely from there. We now need a financial instrument that supports and works for regional development. Regional development funding for regional councils is needed in a flexible way. We will have it through this proposal from the beginning of next year. The Regional Council is a joint association of municipalities in the region and a joint municipal association, which is responsible for regional development in addition to regional planning. The Federation fosters the culture and traditions of its region by networking with the actors in its region. The aim is to promote mental and economic well-being. Mr President! The development money should be used flexibly. Projects must deepen sustainable growth in regions and cities. Well-managed goal-oriented projects can involve villages, municipalities and cities in longer-term and permanent cooperation, which may no longer require state support in a longer run. Development projects must strengthen the economic structure of the regions, support entrepreneurship and cooperation between educational institutions and businesses, and create new jobs and vitality for the regions. In this way, we promote the good life and opportunities of everyone in Finland to make a living, to go to school, to set up a family, to raise children and to carry out lifelong learning and to be able to live well in different parts of this magnificent Finnish peninsula, regardless of their place of residence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! In order to be able to cope, the Uusimaa region should also be taken into account for the country. Perhaps we often talk about regions and refer to non-urban areas with this term, but it would be very important to note that, within the framework of this Government Programme, we really are on the whole of Finland and include our capital region, for example. It is therefore important that all measures and investments, including the Structural Funds, be distributed in such a way that they produce results and effectiveness equally. Uusimaa accounts for almost 40 per cent of Finland’s gross domestic product, so we cannot talk about small importance, and with this well-being we can also finance much of the good that comes into existence in Finland. And, of course, we have other important urban areas in economic policy. It would be important for urban industries to be taken into account when talking about industrial policy. They are not, for example, our traditional industries, which we are perhaps used to talking about, but we have a diverse business structure in many cities, and it is also great that all new entrepreneurs do not have time to do this kind of political influence work as hard as perhaps some of the more established players, so it is important to assess what our regional policy for the benefit of Finland as a whole is, and it is great that the urban strategy is also invested in this government term. I do not see that there is competition within Finland, but more about the fact that there must be vital factors in different regions, in different cities, which are just the right ones for them. For example, a capital region or a strongly growing and developing Tampere or Turku or Oulu or any one of our cities competes in slightly different areas. As far as the metropolitan area is concerned, we need to cope with our Nordic capitals or European cities and be an attractive housing and investment environment. And it is affected, for example, by such educational policy decisions as whether we have English or other language education and early childhood education available, and efforts have been made to do this. And this mentioned Oodi is, of course, one of the factors that is a good example of the well-being of people visiting and living here and abroad and of the interest that can be created in the capital region and in Finland as a whole. So we should broaden the concept of what is industrial policy, and also invest in diversifying the industrial structure of its industrial policy, as we are now aiming to do, and then perhaps take into account some of the wonderful things that have happened in different parts of Finland, which have not been fully appreciated, not always seen near its own hometown. Whether it is a national park or a cultural attraction, we also have a lot of cultural restoration debts that would be worth investing in for the attractiveness of the regions and, of course, for our cultural history. We've got great territory. To develop their strengths, to remember that the regions also include cities and cities also have different areas within them, and not all urban areas feel as well as others. It would also be important to take this into account. We have many examples of areas where children's opportunities for further education, for example, are quite different from those in other areas. Of course, urban policy is also trying to tackle this as much as possible, but it would be good if national and national attention were also drawn to the fact that different cities and municipalities already have unequal areas. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u116	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u117	Mr President! After all, this is an exception that is possible under EU law, or it is said that the possibility brought about by EU law, which means that slaughterhouses will also be able to use the services of students who have completed their studies under the law in the meat inspection and in the control of slaughter operations in the future. Therefore, this is certainly an important way of getting this critical labour resource, the critical authority where it is needed, to slaughterhouses where it is needed, and in this sense this is certainly in this Chamber and then in that Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, a legislative reform that we can happily take forward. At least this is how I promise, on behalf of the opposition, that in committee we will promote it quickly. This is a good proposal from the government that this new departure from this training requirement made possible by the EU can be used to the best of the industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u118	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Autto. This is one small improvement in the veterinary shortage that is present in many places in Finland. I am sure that, when the committee deals with this issue in greater depth, it is good to go over this problem of veterinary medicine in more detail. As far as my knowledge is correct, there has been a bit of a trend in veterinary medicine recently that many veterinary surgeons who graduate want to work on the side of small animals, pets, and of course I have nothing against it, and certainly not against these pets and animals that are being treated, but it is also very important that we have enough veterinarians in the areas where we take care of the kind of food that Finns receive and eat, so it is very important that the availability of veterinarians can also be secured in these traditional sectors, I would say.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u119	Mr President! The speeches above illustrate that this is a good thing, but there is a lot of things that need to be taken into account in the future. Mr Satonen, quite rightly, we need to secure 24/7 emergency services in this country, so that we also have access to those services for the benefit of the animal sector, even if we are talking about dairy farmers, meat cattle, poultry and so on. In other words, the medical potential that we have cannot only specialise in small animal practice, but we must have legislation to enable our traders to have access to those medical services. This will certainly involve the problem of on-call duty, and they must then also have the opportunity to highlight their own burden of on-call duty. [MikaNiikkaOlliImmonen will discuss in the middle ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u122	Mr President! In order not to move on to the post-fact era, there are statistics here, too, about the employment figures in this area and how much we train veterinarians. Generally speaking, it can be thought that when there is almost full employment in a sector, too few experts are trained in this sector. On the other hand, we have areas where it is difficult to find jobs and the unemployment rate may be very high. These factors should be assessed when we decide or our ministries decide how many places to start each sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u123	Mr President! The question here, in a way, is what I said in my own speech, not whether there is... But there are also tasks to which, say now, an inspector, the resources regionally are simply not enough, and when it is said that we have this kind of municipal vet system, then the amount of work that there is is is between that salary really bad. In other words, when the basic salary is very low, there is a need for other activities, such as this caring for small animals, as long as the care of even a larger animal, or herd, is secured. This combination should not be jeopardised, at least now, so that we have this service available and that these veterinarians have sufficient income development so that they really can do the work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u124	Mr President! It is important to correct other shortcomings in the various sectors, but it does not, of course, remove the analysis that we can see when comparing unemployment rates in different sectors and how well they are employed. It is true that we also need to pay attention to wage developments. This, too, does not eliminate the fact that there are labour shortages in other sectors, and solutions are also needed for starting positions. One such example of a sector with a shortage of workers is the early childhood education sector, and there is an urgent demand for more places to start. I would stress that in this area in particular, pay is also a factor affecting the availability of qualified workers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u125	Mr President! As has been shown in this many speeches, it is important that we have veterinarians for both pets and farm animals, that we get clean Finnish food and that the animals are treated well. At the moment, there are at least a few vets coming from Estonia in less than that area. They are trained at the University of Tartu at a very high level. Certainly now that we are considering starting places for universities, it is important that this issue also be taken into account in the debate that we have veterinary services in a comprehensive manner for both productive animals and pets. Animal welfare is important to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u126	Mr President! It is appropriate to increase the starting places for highly educated people in universities of applied sciences and universities, and this situation has, of course, given rise to an emergency call in universities of applied sciences and universities, and I am referring to the budget. The previous government has already made a decision to restore the indexes of higher education institutions. This government made an important decision to raise the basic funding of higher education institutions, but what we must now do together in Parliament at the latest is to have the funds to increase their starting points, because if we just increase the starting points, then the quality of education will be in real trouble at both universities of applied sciences and universities. There is a particular shortage of teachers in early childhood education. The previous government increased EUR 28 million, and that money will be enough until 21, but there is certainly not enough, and it is good that the government has promised to assess the need to train more kindergarten teachers. I hope that in that context we will also return to the appropriations and see what funding is needed for starting positions at both universities of applied sciences and universities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u127	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 5/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u128	Mr President! The report of the General Board of Broadcasting was submitted to Parliament on 29 April this year. Now that the autumn session has begun, we have discussed the report of the Board of Directors for 2018 in committee and we state as a proposal for a decision that Parliament will adopt a position on the report. And the committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report. The report of the Board of Directors has dealt with the activities of Yleisradio in 2018 in a comprehensive and informative manner. It is important to maintain the independence, impartiality and reliability of the communications and other activities of the public radio in order to achieve a level playing field, freedom of expression and democracy. In 2018, up to 95 per cent of Finns used the content of the radio. This was a slight increase compared to 2017. Broadcasting and its procurements and the development of cooperation between YLE and commercial operators are of key importance for the operating conditions and development of the Finnish media sector as a whole. The media sector is undergoing a major transformation and competition is fierce. That's why the YLE has to do well in this race. It is important for the Management Board to ensure and ensure that the public service tasks assigned to the YLE are fulfilled, but, on the other hand, the Management Board must not interfere in any way in its programming and delivery policy. In its discussions, the Board of Directors will certainly also deliver these messages to YLE at regular intervals, but this important role of the Board of Directors is important to remember in this operation of Finnish YLE. It is very good that in 2018 YLE voluntarily started to comply with the EU Regulation on portability by opening up the content of YLE to Finns staying in the EU on a temporary basis. The committee's discussion revealed that, in view of the longer-term trends, the report of the Board of Directors could be developed in the future in such a way as to provide more comprehensive comparative information from previous years. Mr President! Broadcasting is a public service media company subject to Parliament, whose independence, impartiality and reliability of information and other activities can be considered important for the promotion of fair communication, freedom of expression and democracy. In recent years, the debate on fake news has been on the surface, and public service media companies such as Yleisradio are working against it. According to surveys, Finns consider that Yleisradio has been successful as a whole in their public service mission and Finnish people's confidence in Yleisradio as a source of information is at a high level. Mr President! The Committee on Transport and Communications proposes that Parliament adopt its opinion in accordance with the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u129	Mr President! The report of the Board of Directors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company for 2018 under discussion states that ‘The public service’s universal radio activities are expected to have an independent effect on policy, economic and other interest groups, in order to reflect widely the Mr President! In this context, I would like to highlight the critical citizens' feedback which I myself, as a member of the General Radio Board, have been receiving for more than four years now. This critical feedback has been very closely linked to this issue. Indeed, many citizens have felt that, especially in relation to immigration, the European Union, climate policy or, for example, the political activities of the US President Donald Trump, have not been impartial and have different perspectives in a balanced and diverse way, and I am sorry to say that I have also made a strong observation of this issue. In Yle, it seems to many people that both Finland and the rest of the world are looking very strongly through these red - green glasses. We have also had to raise this issue of neutrality on several occasions at the meetings of the Yle Board of Directors, but it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to ensure that YLE complies with the legislation, its own strategy and other guidelines relating to YLE. However, the Board of Directors has no right to interfere in the company’s operational activities. I could say that the YLE Board of Governors is responsible for this big picture of Yle. Mr President! This report by the Committee on Transport and Communications states that the committee's expert hearings have pointed out that, according to studies, the number of people relying on YLE has fallen very much since the year before. The committee also believes, quite rightly, that it is important that the reasons for this change be carefully analysed. On the basis of this very citizen's feedback, I myself would dare to say that the problems I have raised above about the lack of impartiality are very likely to contribute to this loss of confidence. Mr President! Personally, I would like to call for the universal service of all citizens to function equally and for this neutrality, in particular in the Yle programmes, to be achieved significantly better in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, let us not start a broader debate, but here we have a few requests for answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u131	Mr President! I understand that the feeling is strong for many people, but when you look at the different studies that we do in Finland with great merit, this is, for example, a very recent research on the reliability of the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Industry: Yle’s TV News is number one; 84 per cent of citizens rely on it, Yle’s Radio News as number two; 82 per cent of citizens, STT 81, MTV3 News 74, Helsingin Sanomat 66 and Regional Magazines 63. I don't know what else to argue about this, but these are recent research results.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u133	Mr President! I think that the Committee on Transport and Communications has made a very good point on this point, to which Mr Immonen referred, in his own report. I quote directly from here: ‘However, it is essential that the Board of Governors does not intervene in the public radio programme and delivery policy. The committee attaches great importance to ensuring the independence, impartiality and reliability of the public radio in the future." I am no better able to say it myself, and I am therefore not a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, but I think that this is what is essential. In other words, I really do not want politicians to go and direct what kind of news activity and from what point of view the YLE is presenting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u134	Mr President! Regarding Mr Immonen's speech, I would like to say that according to the report of the General Radio Board, 95% of Finns used the YLE content. And, as Mr Guzenina has already said in his speech, public confidence in YLE is still at a good level, and that is the way it should be. Broadcasting is the radio of the Parliament, whose independence of information and other activities must be the basic starting point, neutrality must be the starting point, and reliability must remain high. I personally believe that these studies, which have already been referred to here, also show this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u135	Mr President! Of course, the Committee on Transport and Communications stated that citizens must be kept to their reach and trust and that we must constantly look for the policies to implement this objective, so that this neutrality and independence can be achieved. Indeed, as has been said here in previous speeches, 95% of Finns have been reached with regard to the content of Finnish Broadcasting and it is a 2% increase compared to 2017. This does not mean that Finns have lost confidence in the activities of the Finnish Broadcasting Company on a large scale, but, in my opinion, the opposite. More and more young people are being reached with regard to the content of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, and we are world-class in children's programmes
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u136	Mr President! Just as Mrs Torniainen said earlier, public confidence in YLE is very high. This is a good thing to hold on to. That is why, in a way, I do not underestimate Mr Immonen's speech at all, because whenever there is a speech that concerns this, I think it is important that it is taken seriously in that way. In this transformation of our society, you can say, we no longer share common values in the same way as perhaps 20 years ago, and there are many things that sort of divide Finns, and the debate is easily polarized when you talk about what you eat or should eat or how you view climate change or its solutions. This will certainly challenge the YLE and all the media to be neutral in their ability to act and earn the trust they are expected to have. I'll take one example here, which is always here...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u137	Mr President! I would simply say that freedom of the press is the cornerstone of democracy and, in a way, in a media field in which we are today, where this freedom is being challenged and where certain commercial logics of social media platforms can be directed into bubbles and misinformation, such a public broadcaster as Yle is a very important instance and its independence is extremely important. And I would like to take into account that we actually have forces in this world to dismantle this type of arrangement and should not be treated lightly. So we are actually talking about a very, very important issue for this society. I would be very sensitive to the fact that there is little comment about any kind of political guidance for Yle's activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u138	Mr President! In times like this when the media is in a strong transition, there are fake news and a lot of turmoil on the media field, so it is great that Yle's services are used by up to 95 per cent of Finns. At the same time, when it comes to reliability, only 3 per cent of Finns do not trust Yle’s activities. In times like this, I consider this 3% to be a really small figure, that is, a really high level of confidence. I believe that Yle has played an important role in the fact that the Finnish resistance to this fake news and to the understanding of fake media is just as high as it is in Finland, the highest in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u139	Did I miss someone who asked for a debate that hasn't said anything yet? If not, then let's go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u140	Mr President! There was already a very good debate on the core issue of reliability and coverage. So it is really important that Yle reaches 95 per cent of Finns in a week, and the confidence rate for Yle’s TV news was, I think, 84 — I think it was the case that Mrs Guzenina already listed them here. Then it is also essential that YLE has consistently sought to reach out to younger age groups, as Mr Kymäläinen has already referred to here. In the world in which especially young people live, much information is also coming from outside the borders of the country, and of course all these must be possible and achievable. In that sense, it is very important that this domestic communication also succeeds there. Therefore, the ideas that, for example, Yle’s ability to operate in social media is limited are not reasonable in this big picture under any circumstances. Mr President! Another essential thing to understand is, of course, that YLE, although it is the largest and most important media in Finland, is by no means the only one. If only YLE would succeed in Finland, then we would be in a very weak situation, because it also needs blackmailers, commercial operators. In this respect, this cooperation between YLE and commercial operators is very important because it supports the idea that we can manage not only the YLE but also the national newspapers, above all the regional newspapers, which are perhaps facing the greatest challenges, and then also the local newspapers. All of these together will ensure that Finns receive the kind of information in which, as Mr Pitko has pointed out, we are the least vulnerable in the face of these fake news, but what is beyond doubt is that we are actively trying to disseminate them here too, so it is very important that this role is kept. Mr President! One more aspect of the committee's report. It is necessary to say that more domestic films are now being made than before, for example. It has also been an integral part of Yle's strategy that Yle has partnerships with Finnish producers, so that these Finnish producers can also gain access to international markets through Yle's activities and thus increase the number of media jobs in Finland and take this Finnish cultural export forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u141	Mr President! Indeed, as has already been said on several occasions, it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to ensure and ensure that the tasks of the Yle public service programme are carried out. A good example of this is that Yle has strengthened its own regional activities. Hundred journalists in the field every day throughout Finland. Yesterday we had a meeting of the Yle Board of Directors and received a comprehensive overview of the way in which: Yle has also developed this public service mission locally, and it is impressive that 18 Finnish-speaking regions have 10 radio broadcasts per weekday. In Finland, 900 newscasts are broadcast only on the radio during the week and have been made for people in the area. When we were talking about regional policy a moment ago, it is extremely important that important news is also taken into account regionally in the region. Even regional TV news reaches 600,000 to 700,000 viewers every day, i.e. a very significant player. If we look at commercial media and, for example, this reliability study, which has been carried out, where, for example, county newspapers enjoy only 63 % confidence and Yle's TV news actually 84 %, then Yle is doing an enormously good and impartial job. This must be emphasised here. Trust in the principle of independent journalism is so important today but also in the future. If we are going to undermine it, we will be at the level of countries such as Poland, Hungary or Turkey, for example, which can manipulate the views of their citizens, because they have the media. In the worst case scenario, journalists are being sent to prison, threatened. And once Finland has been a model country for freedom of expression, journalism, it is very important for us to ensure that it continues to be, and not to create such shadows of doubt, that even if we have clear research results that Yle is acting impartially, we throw such assumptions into the air. The assumptions may grow even though they do not have a real basis. With regard to the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Communications, I would like to raise one point which I think would be important. We are now dealing with the 2018 report rather late, we are already in 2019. The Committee on Transport and Communications has stated and stated that this report should be submitted earlier in the spring so that it can always be included in these reports and not dealt with ex post. But, Mr President, if there is any further debate, then I will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u142	Let's see if he's coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u143	Mr President! Independent and reliable communication is the cornerstone of a rule of law and a civilised society such as Finland, and here, of course, YLE is doing important work. I agree with what Mr Satose has said and, of course, with other speeches which have, of course, called for it to be important that we have a wide media field capable of providing this independent and reliable information to Finns. In fact, Mr President, in this debate above, I would offer — as if it were a medicine for someone to think that we could not trust the news — the idea of looking at it for themselves. And in this respect, knowing that Yle's current management is quite skilful and sensitive to ideas and wishes, I would venture to suggest that, as far as possible, this cooperation between Nordic broadcasters should be intensified so that, as easily as possible, links can be found on Yle's website or in Yle Arena to news broadcasts such as in Sweden or Norway, current programmes produced by their broadcasters themselves. I am well aware that it is very difficult to share copyright material and it is a cost issue. Sometimes it can be totally restricted, as in the case of sports broadcasts — for example, the International Olympic Committee sets out the conditions that these can only be transmitted online at national level on the territory of one country. But I believe that, when Nordic broadcasters themselves produce very high-quality productions, these could be more easily distributed then in other Nordic countries. This would serve, for example, the largest language minority in the Nordic countries, i.e. Swedish Finns. This would allow them to get better access to services for those who can — I'm sure they can get to them — but it could be good for anyone only for us if it was easier to follow up on a little news and topical discussion in those neighbouring countries. In view of the brexit turbulence that we are experiencing this week, the most important partner for Finland is the other Nordic country in the final analysis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u144	Mr President! Indeed, Finns have the highest resistance against fake news in the world, as has just been said, but at the same time it is necessary to express concern that the number of responsible journalism is decreasing in Finland. Since 2010, the number of journalists in the press has fallen by about 30 per cent. In particular, this shows a reduction in local news coverage. That's why I feel and see how important it is for Yle to have a strong regional position. Yle has regional deliveries all over Finland, producing high-quality, interesting, touching and credible news and journalism. This local competition is also important, as Mr Autto here said about the importance of media competition. It is also evident in the media sector that young people are slipping out of the circle of this responsible media in particular. Young people are interested in blogs, vlogs, various kinds of Internet content, which is of course a very good thing, but I would like to see such responsible news production done on journalistic grounds also in such formats and in such a way that young people too can enjoy this responsible news content. The challenge for Yle is to reach out to these young people, but I feel that it too is on a good path and that good work is being done, and hopefully this work will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u145	Mr President! I will raise three points with regard to Mrs Yle and then with regard to what was not mentioned in the previous speech. The first thing is that I think that this Arena has hit Yle brilliantly in production throughout Finland, its implementation and solutions and its development. It is perceived among Finns as an extremely good channel,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u154	Mr President! Last year's report from the Board of Directors of the Finnish Broadcasting Company reflects the company's activities in a good and diverse way. Then what I think is important about it: it is good to say that the media is changing, as it is at present, and it is important today that Finland has a reliable information channel that works very extensively throughout Finland and reaches the Finns very widely. It is important that people receive that information if they want that information. The role of regional supply has already been highlighted in this number of speeches. I personally attach great importance to the role of regional regional supply in order to bring regional news to people's attention. In my opinion, it is also important for the media to develop themselves in this time, to live in time and to look to the future. Not only can we be in this present and stop there, but we also need to develop our activities and look to the long future. The public radio must be reliable — as it is at present — and independent and provide timely information to people. It is important, and the YLE must also reach people well. Then I would like to say that, as I recall, Mr Satonen raised the same point, the central task of the Board of Directors is to ensure that the tasks of the public service programme are carried out and that the Management Board does not interfere with the content of the programmes itself. It is an internal matter of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, how programmes are produced there. The role of journalists is also important there and the fact that journalists are neutral and take them forward. I personally hope that they will look broadly at it. Then there are two points I would like to draw attention to. In fact, Mr Guzenina has already pointed out that we are currently living on October and we are dealing with last year's report on this issue. Let us say that by the end of April that report should be submitted, and it has been given, but when you look at what the parliamentary part-sessions will be, I personally hope that in the future we will be able to have this debate at the end of the spring period. This would be important in order to send out a message about what needs to be developed here, so that it can then also be carried over by the Board of Directors and the YLE can also develop its own activities. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u155	Mr President! Here I read a small section on Yle’s page: “The Act on the Functioning of the European Union. In 2017, the public service mission was revised to support the preservation, tolerance, equality, equality and cultural diversity of Finnish cultural heritage. This task replaced the task of supporting tolerance and multiculturalism. The role of law and Yle in supporting cultural diversity is in no way incompatible with Yle's independence. The cornerstones of Yle’s journalism are its values: independence, reliability and respect for man. Our journalism is always based on truthful, essential and diverse communication. We have also, and will continue to, raise various aspects of immigration and give a voice to the various parties involved. We do this on the basis of facts and respect for the dignity of everyone. Building on our value base, we will continue to make bold, diverse and independent journalism for all in Finland.” Mr Guzenina raised the words ‘involvement-free’ and, in my view, ‘involvement-free’. In the run-up to the last election, we saw that the document described in Seinäjoki was not published before the elections, because it may have represented my view of immigration, and I am very sorry that this happened. It was a very imprudent solution from Yle's leadership. We see things differently, and I believe that this neutrality has been compromised. The reason I wanted to take the floor is that by supporting Finnish culture Yle would make a huge contribution to supporting Finnish sport. At the moment, when Finnish sport is not adequately supported by state funds, there are top athletes who have to pay all their own fees. [SunaKymäläinen intermediate call—President : Let's listen! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u158	And now, from the left, we stand up, representatives of Guzenina and Kymäläinen, for the answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u159	Mr President! I agree with the previous speaker that our young people in Finland need models, they need models through sport, for example, through healthy lifestyles. In that sense, your attention to the fact that we also need strong sports journalism is good, and after yesterday's meeting of the Board of Directors, I at least got the impression that: Yle is investing exceptionally extensively in the provision of both Finnish and international sport both on the radio and then on the television and there in Yle Arena. But the reason why I asked for this reply is that when we in Finland really are model countries for freedom of expression and journalistic freedom of expression, it also includes the fact that each of us — each of us — in free journalism also has to face the kind of news that does not always necessarily correspond to our own world view or even feel wrong in our own opinion, but nevertheless, as a member of the Yle Board of Directors, I would never dare to insist that: Yle would change her own journalistic free line in line with what I think is right through my own world view.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u161	Mr President! I am the representative from the left here, my name is Suna Kymäläinen. The question was raised as to why Yle has reduced the evidence of sport. There were even accusations that this was somehow intentional. Now, for my part, I say that there is huge competition for these sports publications and others on the international market, where there is really great money, that is, criticism can always be made, but then there should also be alternatives and solutions to criticism, i.e. is there going to be an increase in VAT in order, for example, to buy more expensive publication rights for sport? This is certainly not what the representative has raised here, but it works as a loathsome reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u162	Mr President! I personally understand Mr Mäenpää's speech and the small criticism of these sports broadcasts by Yle. I accept what sport Yle is currently showing, but of course I personally hope that more Finnish sport will be shown. It is an issue from which people receive a great deal of feedback, from people who have traditionally followed so-called Finnish species. I myself wish that it could also be possible, if we take a sports screen for example, to show more Finnish species there. I will not go into the content of the programme any further, but we must take this feedback seriously, as far as people are concerned, I agree. Finns are a sports people, Finns follow athletes. Many athletes are models for young people, and I personally hope that the television will also make Finnish athletes an example for Finnish young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u163	Mr President! In my opinion, it is quite a very wide-ranging public service mission. A few criticisms: It is great that regional broadcasts and regional news are being developed, but, I have even asked a written question about this, they are currently far from visible in all regions. I've asked Yle's management about this before, but I haven't had any answers. It would also be hoped that this visibility would be in those areas where, for example, the news in Eastern Finland is visible. I am also, Salmon, a lazy congressman. I have never been away from a committee meeting or session, but the percentages are quite different. Wish that when such tools are taken, then they would then be genuinely relevant tools. I'm sorry, Markus Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u164	One last comment to the representatives of Mäenpää and Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u165	Mr President! Mr Kymäläinen raised the issue of high licence fees for these. I would see — or I know — that the Finnish Wrestling Union, for example, could no longer afford to pay the television companies for doing or publishing the TV program, which means that this may have turned even this way. I'm not sure about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u170	Now, Mr Kari, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u171	Mr President! It is nice to discuss Yle in the Chamber, because we are also the users of Yle's services and also, of course, the payers of Yle-Tax, the Yle-Tax. We therefore have a perfectly good and justified right as users and as taxpayers of the Yle-Tax to hope for the content of the programme, to express our hopes for sport or culture or equal treatment, and so on, but in the future we will not have the right, as decision-makers, to demand a specific programme, but to be resolved by journalists, editors and programme producers together, and that means independence in the media field. I believe that not only do we media users need the YLE, but YLE also needs the entire media field, including private operators, so that this media field is as diverse and diverse as possible. For that a big thank you to the YLE, which provides services to a wide range of population groups in different languages and so on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u172	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u173	Mr President! A few comments on the debate: To this last point, as a member of Yle's Board of Directors or as chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications or as chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications for several periods, I have no information or have not shown that Finnish sports would have to pay Yle to be shown on television. If so, I hope that these facts will be shown to me, as promised. I also expect that, if this argument was wrong, these facts will also be addressed to me. On this watchdog of power, on the pies of the absences or presences of MPs and so on, which have been very much discussed with us: I would remind you that this debate relates to 2019 and now we are discussing the report of the Board of Directors for 2018. The Committee on Transport and Communications stated in its report, as has been pointed out here, that this report should be dealt with earlier in the spring. However, I am now defending Yle and Parliament as an actor that we must take into account the timing of this parliamentary term. When the report was brought to Parliament at the end of April, just as the rules have been laid down, so to speak, the law entered into, then there was an election and a new government, and this has also contributed to the delay in dealing with this issue. But on behalf of the committee and myself, I hope that in the future we will be able to deal with this in the spring season. As has been revealed here, when the media field changes when fake news comes into the media field, Yle has an increasingly important role to play. We need a public actor of this kind, which is controlled by Parliament. There has been an opportunity for the development of operations with the Yle-Tax. We have had a lot of opinions on this along the way, but this has in reality brought about the reliability and long-term planning of Yle's activities and programme field, and it has also been possible to ensure that Yle has remained a strong regional actor. Above all, we must remember that commercial media operators feel that Yle is a good partner and that a commercial media field needs a public media field to support and side by side. This kind of competition also keeps news coverage healthy and also this kind of forward-looking for both operators. Above all, Yle as a public actor has a very strong role to play for programme producers and cultural operators, which we support here with our own work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u174	Mr President! I can't wait to be with you without saying a few words about this sport and Yle. This is a very complicated matter, and it was good that the debate came up here, and I do not claim to know all the details here, but this is something we have been talking about for a long time. I remember that sometimes, when I was a young Member of Parliament, it was suggested that Yle should have its own sports channel, where it would be Finnish sports. Well, it didn't get much support at the time, but maybe in this new atmosphere it could be retabled. Of course, I must say that the Yle Arena has somewhat improved the situation. Now Yle Arena becomes more of a sport. But I have also seen this on the other side of the table, to which that Mäenpää referred in relation to the Wrestling League: I have also been the chairman of the Finnish Volleyball Association, and so I have seen what this situation is like for the Federation of Species. This now seems to be, let us say, three levels of these sporting events. The first is the international level, the most interesting events on the international stage, which are now also of interest to non-traditional international players and which they buy at large amounts of money. Even in Yle's budget, this is reflected in the way that in those years when there are no big sports competitions, Yle typically makes such a profit of about 5 million euros, and when there are big sports races, Yle makes it the same amount of loss. So we are talking about really big things, and then we are talking about the Olympic Games, the European Championships for football — which will certainly be even bigger next summer if the ball goes to the finish line of Liechtenstein now a few times, then it will be even bigger than before in Finland — the World Championships for athletics, the World Ski Championships, events of this kind, which also, through European Union decisions, will also be on the list to show them freely in Finland, not so that they necessarily have to be shown on the Yle, but in some free-selected channel they have to be shown. It's a certain list made. As a result, for some of the events — and of course the World Hockey Championships are part of this same series — Yle has also divided them into parts from Yle and, in part, from MTV. This cooperation has been made because these are so expensive for everyone. This is, therefore, one category in which substantial sums are actually paid for these broadcasting rights. Then there is the second category where there is not much to pay for, but where broadcasting costs and broadcasts are so popular among the people that their ratings are significant. This category is represented, for example, by volleyball, which typically has such 300,000 to 400,000 spectators, sometimes more when the volleyball team’s match comes from Yle’s channels. It's like the show. So it is not the same as the World Ice Hockey Final — which speaks of more than one million spectators — can be close to two million and so forth — but it is a significant number of spectators. You can say that at this level of events Yle's been adding a lot lately. For example, volleyball European Championships, both women's and men's competitions, came quite comprehensively from Yle, as did basketball World Championships, events of this kind. Then let's go to the third category I think. The head of the hill spoke very well here. They are then events of national significance, which may also be of international significance, but which play the role of slightly smaller species in this big picture. I'm a chess player, and I don't think Yle's ever had a chess game. But for example, Norwegian NRK shows chess for many hours a day when there is a World Cup game when the Norwegian world champion is playing, and it is there a highly watched program. There is no such chess star in Finland, so it is natural that the chess World Championship in Finland is not shown in this way. But even if we have significant athletes in wrestling, there are many other species that are no longer of the same category as this one. For example, Jukola’s message has an excellent implementation when it comes from Yle in the middle of the night. I do not know exactly what Mr Kymäläinen said about how this money is moving, but yes, when production costs are high and the ratings are reasonably low, money may move in another direction. But what is essential is that it also comes. It is very important for the species, as Mäenpää said, that it is visible from there. I think that this third category is something that should also be discussed in this Chamber, because it is precisely here that there will be examples of Finnish young people in many other species than football, hockey or skiing alone, which means that it will have a national role to play. But it also means that if Yle invests more in these species, even if the species do not ask for any shipping fees, it will still pay for Yle to carry out a high-quality programme. And when the Federation of Species has a very limited ability to pay, we are in a situation where Yle should have a little more resources, be able to work more comprehensively — so that the idea of its own sports channel, for example, focusing on Finnish sport, is realistic or that we can continue to diversify the supply of Yle Arena for sport, more. So this is what it's all about. But it is good that this debate is taking place because it indirectly has a big impact not only through its model, but also on all the smaller species, all the clubs there, all the volunteers there, all of them, it is a big deal, whether the sport they are engaged in, whether it comes from television, whether it gets view time on television and how much it gets. It directly affects the opportunity for the species to develop, to have partners and thus to take the sport and the hobby that is important to people forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u175	We're on the extra time granted by the judge, but it was important. — Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u176	Mr President! Not only are the species visible, but the species commentators are skilled who also stimulate the spark of sports in others. I myself remember from childhood — I was born in the late '60s — what kind of hill reports we had. We still had a black and white TV, and when there was a ski jump this afternoon, I sat there in front of the television screen like a buckthorn and refused to move because it was so wonderful and partly because of these reports. I admit here that I have very warm feelings for Yle precisely because of this public service mission. I also remember from my childhood when two crazy, silly English policemen asked that ‘wereisthecat?’and then it was said that ‘thecat is inthemoon’. These are the first English words I have learned, and perhaps the people of my generation have similar experience in this matter. The world has changed a lot. There are no more black and white televisions, and in addition to a normal TV receiver, we have received this stream and people can watch broadcasts almost anywhere. It must be noted here that the groundbreaking work Yle has done with the Yle Arena and the Yle Archive is a real national treasure, when one can look at these old “Hello,Hello,Hello” programs and also the old sports stories. These are the things you would wish our young people would also find, and here Yle has now improved quite well: when you look at these latest results, there is already a 19% rise among the 15 to 29-year-olds — now we are talking about the results of this year — and then there has already been a great deal of enthusiasm for Yle in the younger group — for example, this Yle’s Hau team — and there is also a plus 5% rise. In fact, when you look at all the age groups, there is a lot of that rise even among the people in their 60s, where these ratings, taking into account the minutes spent on Yle’s TV and Arena every day, have certainly reached the peak. In that sense, congratulations to Yle and Yle's leadership for the fact that much has been done there to ensure that Yle reaches the Finnish people as widely as possible. I would also like to say, President, that when every now and then there is a debate about the transfer of Yle's funding to the budgetary framework, I have found with great joy that no one has demanded it here, but everyone is pleased that we have this sort of broad public service house that reaches so widely, and it is extremely important that we do not put Yle's public service tasks at risk. Much tells us, as has already been said here, that Yle enjoys the confidence of Finns. And while we're still talking about these brands that we're talking about today
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u177	Mr President! That is where I said that it is nice in Parliament to discuss Yle, because we are all users, consumers and also payers. But we are also, of course, decision-makers, and I myself have been allowed to sit a few meetings of Yle's Board of Directors in the previous period before I had to move on to other tasks. During this period, the tasks remained half of the last period. So I got one meeting of the board of directors to sit down, and for that, thank you — the upper heart beats under this jacket too. Representative Guzenina referred to the past, and I myself belong to the generation that has been built around the library, elementary school and Yleisradio programmes, and to the generation that turned nine years old when Little Kakkonen started on television in 1977, not to mention the Knalli and umbrella series, which is still part of my favorite radio program today — the old Knallis and umbrellas. But for this regional programme production of Yle: I do want to give positive feedback on this, and I consider it to be one of the key elements of the wide-ranging programme mission of YLE. Locality is part of globalism, local things are also part of global issues, as is seen in today's life. But above all, the users of Yle-palvelu also think — at least for my part — that I can say and dare to believe and guess that quite a few other people think — that those things in their own region are of enormous importance to people in their own region, and I think that YLE is taking great care of this regional programme production today and living in time. To this neutrality of Yle, I would like to say that I understand that it must also be possible to assess the public radio from outside — The public radio is also making an assessment of the content — but I would like to say that it is a somewhat worrying development in maintaining, as it were, a political point of view that the public radio is not neutral. I believe that this is a denial of the neutrality and interference of YLE in the content of YLE's programme production by means of policy, giving an image and perhaps a certain kind of pressure inside YLE, that this angle of broadcasting production is unacceptable, you must do something else. There are countries in the world where politicians decide the content of the programme, what is good for the citizen, and in such countries Finland is not included. Such countries can be found outside Finland’s borders.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u178	Mr President! Mr Kari and Mr Guzenina spoke well in that regard, and Mr Satonen, in particular, dealt with a great many important aspects of this issue, but I really cannot bear to say myself about the importance of sport in the sense that we certainly all share the undivided will to have good opportunities for children and young people, and, of course, in creating enthusiasm, the models play an important role. If Yle could also offer the athletes of the species where the cost of doing so would not be so great from the point of view of families with children, for example, it would of course give such a nice incentive to these species, knowing that, for example, this hockey of our later national sport is extremely expensive for families. Of course, it is very important for the national self-esteem that when Finland wins, the whole nation gets involved, of course it is great, but it is important that other species are also brought up with sufficient force that Finnish hero stories and good examples become diverse for young people. But, Mr President, such an approach to this Nordic cooperation, apart from what I have already said: indeed, when regional deliveries have been strengthened and there the idea of raising this level of journalistism is also raised, it is quite concrete in this context, for example in Lapland, that there has been a need to remove well-liked programmes from the software — programmes in which local actors in Sweden, Norway and Russia have produced content, which has also been well regarded among the followers of the Finnish Yle programmes. In this respect, we have, of course, held this debate locally on how to bring it to the everyday knowledge of neighbouring countries, neighbouring regions, because, while we all agree that this development in the Arctic region of Europe is something in which Finland should be involved — it opens up huge opportunities for Finland — it is so much easier to be involved when we know what is happening next door and that everyday life is more familiar in that way. In order for it to be present on a daily basis through the media, I would now like to think about how this cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Kalotti region will be intensified.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u179	Mr President! The representatives of Kari, Satonen and Pitko have, among other things, made an excellent contribution to the importance of the Finnish media field, the free, independent media field and Yle's role in it as a whole. I would like to reiterate that it is therefore dangerous to undermine these principles or to call into question the current situation if it is carried out for political purposes, and that is a worrying path. But on the subject: Based on scientific surveys, Finns rely on science and are very interested in science and scientific research. In this Chamber, too, there is often an appeal for research in connection with one or another issue. That is a great thing, because only on the basis of research data can we sustainably tackle global and also local challenges such as climate change, the challenges of biodiversity. We must have the best and comprehensive scientific understanding of the matter so that we can intervene. Where, then, do Finns follow science? Through the media. Newspapers, TV, radio and Internet news sites are the most important sources of scientific information for ordinary people, and I believe that, in fact, this Parliament of ours very often too, although we do have other ways of getting there. When you think of Yle's role in the Finnish media field, Yle has a very important role in realising this kind of scientific information in Finnish society, and this is a pretty heavy responsibility in this time. It is very important that when science news is produced and research information is reported, it improves understanding of the world. Then it is very important that, for example, sources are clearly set up, it has opened up as far as possible means and the significance of information, scale, things like this — whether it is peer-reviewed information, how much is known and such. It is also very important to highlight the scientific method and how it has been produced in the context of the results. If you follow the news, this may not always care about the news. Of course, it is about wrapping complex information for a wide audience, it is about balancing, but this is something that I think is very important to understand. Perhaps in this time the news spreads in different ways, even as it once did, and the reason for this is highlighted. On the other hand, technology also makes it possible to link better ways, as it were, and in a way to point out the place of its knowledge as part of a wider whole. I'd really like to point out that Yle has a really big responsibility here. Yle has made me a good job, I'm not saying that, there's an award-winning science delivery and much more. But this is what I would like to highlight.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u181	Mr President! I would like to comment a little more on this confidence in Yle. This is a very important subject. It's good that we're talking about media trust and the trust of Yle. Global Yle is actually one of the best in the world and Finland is at the top of the world in media reliability, but you can always improve. Researcher Ruth Palmer has studied the reliability of the media, and she points out that the best way to increase public confidence in the media is to increase media literacy. This is where we decision-makers play an important role. I do not believe that raising individual programmes to a stick will contribute to the situation, but to promoting media literacy, and I am pleased that this Government Programme of the Rinte Government includes the promotion of media literacy in teacher training, schools and youth work, and that hybrid influence is also on the government agenda. From this point of view, government investment in education is also extremely important when the world is constantly changing. Yle's activity report also highlighted media literacy. Yle produces content that supports media and digital skills, media education, which includes exactly source criticalness and media literacy. I therefore believe that through media literacy we will be able to further strengthen trust in Yle and the media, but the fact that individual programs, documents, or substantive choices are being raised — from the whole to the details — can even erode that belief.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u182	Mr President! There has been talk of trust and independence here and, of course, they are clearly one of the cornerstones of democracy and the realisation of its democracy. On the other hand, when we understand the value of something when it is not, in a way, too automatic, then we also have the opportunity, as a society, to develop it and talk about it in such a way that it is understood: the fact that we are also talking about critical points simply means that we are able to develop in it, and it is not, in a way, to think that we cannot talk about the things that are undermining that confidence or undermining that independence. But when I asked to speak, there was at that point a debate on the importance of sport, or, if there is to be a little expansion, of culture or other things. Quite a few thanks have come from that side now, and as a footballer like this, I do want to share the thanks. Football is one of the most equals in the world. The ball is the same everywhere, the rules are the same everywhere, but it can still be seen that in the media there is often less attention to female and female football, and there has been a positive development in recent times, both in Yle and in the media — an international sport in which, of course, there has been a bit more success in Finland than there has been in the male side. When they're just hoping we can get there for the European Championships, then you'll probably see that half more on Yle. It is important that attention also be paid to the fact that both sexes and also to the pursuit and variety of the species are shown equally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u183	Mr President! When we have discussed sport, to which the previous representative referred in this debate, I would also like to add my own point of view to this debate, insofar as sport is of enormous importance to the national feeling of Finns and sport is also extremely important for us, children and young people. Yes, I appreciate every sport in that I would give them a lot of visibility and the opportunity to express myself. That is all I have ever had in this debate. When we were talking about the fact that federations of species have no means or resources to pay I would like to go back to my first speech in the debate about the fact that Yle has a huge impact on programme producers, both cultural producers and sports producers, scientific producers and so on. In other words, in my opinion, it is still going to be possible for the associations of species to enter into agreements with producers and for producers to enter into agreements with Yle.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u186	Mr President! Here I have listened to this Yle-debate, and there has been a good debate. I would like to comment on such a matter — when we are talking about the reliability of the YLE and even the percentages of the reliability of the Finnish media were heard here in great detail, thank you — that, if we are thinking of this debate and the fact that the representative of the YLE's Board of Governors went to tell us about the criticism he received from the people in this Chamber and was then attacked from the left, in the sense that I find it unfortunate that when a representative brings a criticism to the debate, it would be very sensible to consider together what the criticism is based on and why it is received. And it would be good to have this debate in a constructive spirit, and not to allow only one person to make criticisms and another to be worse than the other. That is not the case, because the people are one and we are here for them. I would also like to go down to the question of the reliability of who is now criticising, for example, the great Arena service of Yleisradio. Hardly anyone. Who criticizes the magnificent nature programmes of Yleisradio, sports production, all the great things produced for Finns there, who? I don't think it's a Finn. Criticism is very commonly directed at political journalism and political agendas. This is understandable, too, because citizens have many political ideas behind them and, as a result, different viewpoints naturally give rise to different feelings among citizens. But if we ask what the reliability of Yle is, or we ask what the reliability of Yle's political delivery is, then I believe the numbers are different. And this too is very easy to explain because, as we all know, it is then divided by political proportions. But, summarum, I would like to see the criticisms of the members of the board of directors in this Chamber taken seriously, just as seriously as the fine compliments that have been heard here today. I fully agree with those praises as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u187	There's been quite a few debatts here today. We would rather go to the list of speakers now towards the end, but there are still requests to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u188	Mr President! There has been a good debate on this issue, and I myself am also one of Yle's friends. It has been said here about this local activity that 100 journalists are from all over the country, but unfortunately for my part there In Lapland, I have also seen the opposite development, that this locality is a little narrowed down. We now have journalists in Rovaniemi and Inari, and these shipments of Yle are quite concentrated on production from these localities. Then I would like to mention what Mr Autto has already said in his own speech, namely that we have so far had Mrs Riina Guseva and Mr Bertil Isaksson from Murmansk and Pajala, who have produced some sort of cross-border deliveries, and they have been very popular and delayed, but now that they have been brought to an end, as it were, to explain that these cases did not reach a sufficient level of journalism, but I believe that this has been an important channel in the sense that we have a language barrier both towards Russia and then towards Sweden and that this has brought quite the everyday information from the place that has taken place in Murmansk, Northern Russia and Northern Sweden and Norway. As far as these programmes are concerned, I would like to see further consideration. Similarly, Saturday morning’s wish concert was closed a few years ago. Now we can hear the grannies of Lauttasaari when they send greetings, so this too was much more popular when the people in the area were allowed to send greetings, and not because it is a national broadcast. Here too, then, the seed of criticism is in order. But otherwise you can agree with these, that you can trust Yle's news and people feel that it is reliable, and these are important for me such as the cornerstones of democracy. Yle Areena is a great service, and it has been nice to see that young people have also found it and there a lot of follow-up programs and news coverage. But this too has changed in the sense that today, when a program is being produced there, young people may watch the program during the weekend, and then they are already looking for something new. So, of course, such marathons are practiced, that then we go to someone's house all weekend to see all the shipments that have been produced there, so here, of course, is the long-term need.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u189	Mr President! Mr Ojala-Niemelä, a fellow representative from Lapland, raised some very important points here, and I too am concerned about the way in which these so-called regional radios are able to operate and how we guarantee them the resources so that they serve Finland as well as all our regions in the best possible way. Similarly, of course, I would like Yle to invest — and it has certainly made a delightful development — in Sámi content, which is also extremely important for Sámi-speaking people who live outside the Sámi region. I share this criticism of the political content of the debate. Of course, it is quite clear to us politicians — certainly every once in a while — that some Yle news there is then cramped and annoyed, but I would like to remind you that Yle is committed to the rules of the Council of Public Word. This criticism, especially of the Finns of Finland, would be much more credible if your own Party magazine, the Finnish News, committed itself to these same rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u197	Mr President! I find it extraordinary that this time on almost any topic, this time on Yle's administrative report 2018, it is always suggested from the right hand side that ‘representatives on the left’,just as there would be a wall in the sky as a matter of principle,was the case. Of course, criticism can be made, and criticism is a prerequisite for development, but there is more to criticism than just immigration. If we consider the equal or fair role of Yle, for example in the implementation of linguistic rights Yle is unique: the deaf, the Sámi, the plain, the Swedish and so on are taken into account. We also have a variety of perspectives, ideas about immigration, including discussion programmes, topical programmes that YLE produces. 95 per cent of Finns, which has been mentioned here many times in discussions, are in or enjoy Yle's programme content. It cannot then appear that the great voice of the people is of the opinion that YLE cannot be trusted or YLE is not fair. Depending on opposition—government arrangements, there is always too little TV or screen time when comparing government ministers' screen time or other, and this is an equal fight, which always varies from one government term to another, and very often this debate revolves around these political decision-makers who believe that they or their parties have not got enough of our own views through the public media. I think this will not change, but I would like to remind you that it is up to Parliament to ensure that the public YLE carries out its assigned tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u198	Mr President! I hope, however, that each of us, at the end of this debate, can say that Yle is important and dear to us all. In my opinion, it is precisely this that must be maintained that it will also be important and dear to us all in the future. That is what we are trying to ensure here. I asked for this intervention, in fact, because of Mr Peltoka's speech, that there should be no misunderstanding. In my opinion, everyone is entitled to make criticism. I myself only quoted the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Sector's reliability research as a response to your view. I certainly do not deny that you have the right to do so in your own view. In my opinion, the wealth of Yle's journalism and Yle's programme offer is precisely its versatility. You don't have to watch every single show, you don't have to listen to every single radio show, but you can choose the ones you like and find the ones you want to spend time with, and this is Yle's wealth. We will continue to insist that we have such a strong, journalistically free broadcast that produces such a wide, national and internationally reliable and respected journalism. I still think it is important to emphasise that the work that Yle is doing now, at the moment, to improve this regional coverage, the amount of journalists we have there on the ground, a hundred journalists in the provinces doing important work to tell about local issues, is of enormous value, and that is also the fostering of Finnish culture. It is extremely important in this time period, where so much information comes from different kinds of information. The work Yle does is priceless.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u199	Mr President! In my opinion, we have had a good debate on this report by the Board of Directors, but at the same time there has been quite a lot of discussion on the content of the programme. This debate has expanded a great deal, and I am sure it is because, as Mr Kari has already pointed out in his own speech on a number of occasions, we are all users of those programmes, we are monitoring them very closely, we are monitoring certain programmes very closely, but we are also parliamentarians and some of us are also members of the board of directors. We are, in a way, even in three roles in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u202	Mr President! In my opinion, this debate has been very good, and if we are talking about this criticism, which Mr Immonen started with, then I too have received the same feedback, but it is not the only feedback I receive. There will also be feedback in another direction, and I think there was some reporter from Yle who aptly described that when there is steady feedback and criticism from every direction, it is likely to have been quite successful. So it's kind of the starting point. Well, at the heart of this and the general public radio activity, both in Finland and in the other countries to which we can be compared, for example, in Great Britain, where one could no doubt imagine that the BBC is facing little challenge, in what form it tells this Brexit issue, when it is likely that opinions are quite strongly divided... But the basic idea is that there is a firewall in which the Board of Directors and the political machinery together decide, here Parliament decides jointly, all parties together, we decide on the level of funding, the Board elects the Board of Directors, and then the Board elects the CEO, the editor-in-chief. This firewall has been deliberately created in such a way that politicians are not directly and by no means in the process of deciding what programme comes from there. Of course, there are countries where this is the case, but I certainly do not want to live in such a country, and I do not believe that there is anyone here who wants to live in such a country when it usually involves quite big things, if you go into such a system. This also means, of course, that, since it is the case that politicians do not decide these things, the point of view of any government or any party does not only come up and should not come up, it must be precisely that those programmes are formed and carried out on a journalistic basis and the responsible editor is responsible for the content, and then the government is the one that then gives its trust to the editor or, if necessary, replaces him. So this is like the mechanism of how this is built, and I think this is the only possible course of action if this kind of broadcaster is considered at all. I will not think of anything better, and it has not been invented in Great Britain, Norway, Sweden or anywhere else where such a system comparable to us exists. But it must be said that when you look at the popularity figures of Yle Arena, this has been done very well in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u203	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here. This speech by Mr Satose was also excellent. But quite little has been said about the tension that still exists: commercial media versus Yle. This tension was, after all, being dismantled during the last parliamentary term by changing certain activities and the activities of Yle. I think there was a working group here — it was called the Satos team, I don't know why. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u206	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In this context, the 10th item of the agenda will also be allowed to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u207	Mr President! There are over 3,000 girls living in Finland who are at risk of being mutilated. Together with Mr Sarkomaa, we took two legislative initiatives to ban female and female genital mutilation as a crime title and to prevent mutilation. These initiatives are intended to be dealt with as a whole, as is now the case. These initiatives are intended to improve the prevention of female mutilation, to improve the knowledge of the authorities about acts and to strengthen penalties for acts. Female and female genital mutilation violates human and self-determination rights and causes health, social and sexual harm. According to the calculations by the National Institute for Health and Welfare, there are about 10,000 girls and women who have been mutilated in Finland and there are up to 3,000 girls living in Finland who are at risk of being mutilated. Finland must once and for all succeed more effectively in protecting girls at risk of mutilation and take action to combat these serious and inhuman crimes and to help victims and to bring those responsible to justice. Our legislation must clearly send out a strong negative view on mutilation and criminal liability must be realised. A separate law prohibiting mutilation would be a strong signal that female mutilation is a crime in Finland. The criminality of acts has not at present been highlighted in the clearest possible way in our legislation. Punishment of mutilation is not always well enough known, even though acts are against criminal law as gross assaults. Unlike in other Nordic countries, no case has progressed to justice in Finland. Therefore, criminal liability has not been achieved by the current legislation. Our legislative initiatives under discussion are intended to support the citizens' initiative on this subject, which calls for a separate law to be drawn up to ban mutilation. I was also involved in the spring when this citizens' initiative was submitted to Parliament. Finally, the content of the legislative initiatives is still very close. Our legislative package now under discussion proposes that a new penal code on female genital mutilation should be added to the penal code, the minimum of which would be two years of imprisonment. In addition, the initiative introduces new points to clarify that health, social and school authorities are obliged to notify the police or child protection when they discover possible mutilation or suspect that someone is at risk of being the victim of such a crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u208	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Indeed, Parliament, we parliamentarians, recently had a wide-ranging debate on the citizens' initiative, which suggests that a separate law should be introduced in Finland to prohibit female genital mutilation. I think that citizens' initiative was very welcome, so every girl and woman must have the right to decide on their own body and future. The citizens' initiative, as we all know, we have been involved in the debate and part of it has also been heard in committee, does not yet present any concrete content for this possible separate law, but proposes that Parliament obliges the government to draft a legislative proposal. I myself warmly support this citizens' initiative, such as our group, and that is why, together with Mrs Vikman, we made these two legislative initiatives. These two different legislative initiatives contain concrete proposals on what this possible separate legislation could mean in practice. Indeed, there are these two legislative initiatives. A few people have already asked whether, with this power, a coalition of people is in favour of this, that there are two legislative initiatives with the same content — no, but that these legislative initiatives really complement each other. Indeed, in the last parliamentary term, this group of ours has been the subject of an initiative for action. Why a separate law? Indeed, as the previous representative has said, we in Finland need to do better to protect the girls under the threat of mutilation and to take action to combat these serious and inhuman crimes, to help the victims and to bring those responsible to justice. In my legislative initiative on these twins — I call the twins these legal initiatives — it is proposed to add to Chapter 21 of the Criminal Code Article 6b on the prohibition of female genital mutilation of such new girls and women. This is the main content of its bill. Indeed, as Mr Vikman has said here, female genital mutilation is a matter of genital mutilation without medical cause, and this is a crime and a violation of human self-determination and, in many ways, a loss of equality between women and a wide range of health and social disadvantages for women and girls who are victims of this measure. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence obliges us, the Finnish Parliament and Finland, to draw up guidelines and also guarantee an effective system to prevent mutilation. As has been said here, Finland is still the only Nordic country where there is no specific law prohibiting female mutilation. In Sweden, for example, a similar law has been in force since 1982. It must also be said that, when many contact us, does not the MP know that this is already prohibited by the Criminal Code, that this is the case, that mutilation has been punishable as a serious abuse under Finnish criminal law since 1995. But in my opinion, and in the opinion of many experts, it has not been brought up in the clearest possible way in the legislation and the criminality of acts is not sufficiently well known. I believe that a separate law, or this separate criminalisation, is justified because the legislation clearly has to send out a very negative message of mutilation and criminal liability. That is why this bill proposes the addition of a separate criminalisation of mutilation, that is to say a new criminal title, to the Criminal Code. This separate criminalisation would also deny Finnish citizens the possibility of mutilating abroad and would give them more opportunities to deal with crimes. This bill also proposes that the validity of acts be increased by increasing the minimum penalty for the act from one year to two years. Perhaps, when I present this bill, the description of the penal act would refer to the description of acts as defined in the articles of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Mr President! In my opinion and in our opinion, we really need a clear tool for preventive work and for changing attitudes as well, and that is why we consider this separate criminalisation, a possible separate law, to be supported. This is particularly necessary if this strong message about the criminality of mutilation is to be made clear that it is actually a criminal offence to be punished. Many families even think that maiming a girl is a protection for children. Parents cannot think that it is a serious crime, and that is why this message must be brought up. We need to be able to protect all girls and women. At the end of the day, when the time is running, I should also like to say that when I heard the open public hearing in the Legal Committee, it was very clear that other measures were also needed. That is certainly the case, and I would like to say that it was excellent that the programme to prevent genital mutilation was updated. In the order, the second programme was carried out during the last term of government by Minister Saarikko. It is also important that the programme be implemented, researched and increased knowledge. Last but not least, when I myself am a Helsinkier, there must also be registers. For example, all other hospital districts register births of circumcised and mutilated women, but only HUS does this yet. It is very important that we have knowledge and research and that we are able to help and support all the women who need help and support in it and, above all, to raise this issue so that we can protect all the girls.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u209	Madam President! I would like to continue with this excellent speech by Mr Sarkom, and I would like to start by thanking you for this citizens' initiative to legislate against female and female genital mutilation and also for the debate I have heard here in Parliament and in this House today and earlier. This is a very critical human rights issue, which is directly linked, for example, to the girls' day last week, to the rights of girls, and also to the improvement of women's health, for example, which has also been the subject of debate in this House. I personally see the importance of this bill. I represent us as parliamentarians on the way to the delegation of the Council of Europe, and in that Council of Europe I often speak about the way in which human rights are advanced in Finland. I think it was the other week when I talked about, for example, ombudsman practices and the elimination of birth violence, the elimination of experiences of violence. But I must say that I cannot boast of Finland's actions on this point either. I believe that a change is needed if human rights are to be realised in Finland as well. There are as many as 3,000 girls living in Finland who are at risk of being mutilated against their own choice, that is not the question. My party in the centre of the party has also adopted a position at the party assembly on the adoption of a separate law prohibiting mutilation a few years ago. Annika Saarikko, Minister for Basic Services of the last term of government, has successfully launched this 2020 action programme to prevent mutilation, and I think it has started well. Finland is the only Nordic country in which female genital mutilation is not explicitly prohibited by law, and it is questioned whether there are exceptions. We must provide for a separate law prohibiting mutilation so that there is no longer any doubt as to the criminality of the act, just as is now the case here. In my view, the current model in Finland does not adequately address female and female genital mutilation. The circumcision of girls is totally reprehensible. In the 2008 ruling, the Supreme Court has already ruled that girls’ circumcision is a case of aggravated abuse. We cannot allow any further exceptions to such situations. I am bent on supporting this law, which would clearly prohibit female and female mutilation and tighten penalties. Then no one could question it. The circumcision of girls and women, i.e. genital mutilation, should be explicitly criminalised in Finland, as has already been done in other Nordic countries. In the same context, more specific regulation on circumcision for boys should also be brought to the level of law-making. And this should be the beginning of a similar discussion and discussion on the situation of the boys. It is a good thing that the government programme also gives a backseat to such a separate law, and we can certainly take this issue forward quite clearly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u210	Madam President! This female genital mutilation is an appalling practice and it is important that it should be brought into legislation separately by unambiguously recording criminalisation. I would like to thank the representatives of Vikma and Sarkomaa for having taken these important legislative initiatives, and I would like to hope that, on the basis of the legislative initiatives taken by the parliamentarians, the matter can now proceed in such a way that a law can actually be passed on this matter. We are often criticised for the fact that here in Parliament we are moving to the law of things that few ultimately support, and when there are things that we all support, it seems very sticky that legislation is changing. I am sure that this is something that everyone is in favour of, and I would really like to see further progress to the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u211	Madam President! Thank you for an important debate with the previous speakers. Genital mutilation is a gross and serious violation of human rights. The fight against female genital mutilation is certainly to be welcomed and important and, above all, effective prevention is also needed for its success. In order to promote this, the Government Programme has also set out that resources will be secured for the fight against genital mutilation. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), strengthening the health sector is the most effective means of preventing mutilation. More knowledge and information is also needed for schools, adults and social workers working with young people in order to succeed. This issue should be discussed and addressed in a preventive manner, especially at maternity and child health clinics. The League of Human Rights has also suggested that special attention should be paid in Finland to the fact that all national measures against genital mutilation, not just legislation, are sufficient. In this case, it is also particularly important that professionals in different sectors comply with their existing obligations under the existing legislation, such as the obligation to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u212	Madam President! The bill on the law against the prevention of female genital mutilation is a good one. All initiatives and discussions to prevent these sick rites are good. It is therefore a good thing that this bad thing should arise in a public debate and that this Chamber will have to take a position on it. We keep getting people out of cultures where girl mutilation is standard practice. From my point of view, this is a matter of shocking repression and control. In Finland, such brutality against girls children must not be normal or become normal, and under no circumstances must we accept such violence against a girl or woman mentally and physically. Finland is a Western civilised country, which does not include honour violence, mutilation or forced marriages, alongside our own laws, perhaps not to mention the Sharia. If we are to continue to be a civilised state, it must be clear, like banning such medieval practices. And the raising of these issues and the debate on them can no longer be taboo, which, unfortunately, it still seems to be in part in the public debate — for the reason that if you mention and criticise what these are often related to, you can get a verdict. I wonder why not all women's rights organisations in Finland are making noise about the flaws of barbaric culture, indeed. Human rights organisations have, in some respects, forgotten their most important role: to protect people in this passion for multiculturalism and its pedestal. There is still much to be done and it has to be said that real equality, equality and justice in this society will reach the level that should be obvious and practice even now. Mr President! Today, however, I am pleased that we have come so far that this issue will once again arise in a serious debate. I hope that this debate will lead to a ban on mutilation by means of a separate law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u213	Mr President! A few weeks ago, this issue was discussed in Parliament on the basis of a citizens' initiative, and even then it became clear in the debate that the House across party boundaries is very united in favour of this issue, i.e. the criminalisation of female genital mutilation. Even then, it became apparent in the debate that this has already been criminalised as a serious assault in the Criminal Code, but I myself, too — and, of course, I still agree — agreed that in order to send out the message of how serious the crime is, it is appropriate to have such a separate section of the penal code. This is a very serious crime and a serious violation of human rights. That is why we can only regret that Finland has not been able to prevent these, and that, on the one hand, it has not yet been possible to bring these cases, which have come to light and which are happening, through the police investigation, so that they could then have been convicted of this. When you look at these legislative initiatives, what has been done about this, they are in line with what has already been discussed here, and I am sure that in that committee they will then be linked to that initiative. It seems that the deviation from this current state of justice is that, when a separate law requires this impunity or a change to Chapter 21 of the Penal Code, here this penalty scale would be raised to a minimum that, today, when aggravated assault is from one year to ten years imprisonment, it would be from two to ten years in this proposal. That would mean, in practice, that its meaning is, of course, not only that the punishment would be more severe there at its minimum, but also that it could not be judged conditionally. And when there are sanctions of this kind, however, I think it is important that, although this has probably been considered in legal terms, this is in parliamentary procedure and perhaps it is better then to prepare this package for the Ministry of Justice and also to check that this penalty scale is in line with the rest of the criminal justice system so that it sits there in an appropriate way without taking a stand on that detail here. In any case, it is good that we are talking about this and I really hope that it will move forward quickly and that we will have a separate provision in the criminal code.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u214	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The female genital mutilation was particularly evident in 2017 when Fenix Helsinki ry published a study which it handed over to the then child father representative Tuomas Kurttila. This study revealed that girls born in Finland from immigrant backgrounds have been sent abroad to be circumcised. In 2017, following this study, Chief Executive Seppo Kolehmainen said that it is impossible to intervene in these cases, the cases of mutilation. At the same time in 2017, I asked Annika Saarikko, then Minister for Basic Services, a written question on the subject where I asked for measures to ban female genital mutilation and to find cases in Finland. At the same time, at the Espoo City Council, the Finnish National Council Group also became a council initiative as well as the Council's requests for special attention to be given to the subject in Espoo, my home town. It is therefore very good that we are dealing with this issue here in the Chamber of Parliament. It is wonderful that there has been a citizens' initiative on this issue, and it is good that there seems to be a common will and the courage to speak, at last, to vote on this important and serious issue — all of us. I'm glad we're being addressed by the subject. ‘Thecircumcision of girlsis intended to apply all measures There is a negative view of girls’ circumcision in Finland. The circumcision of girls is considered to be a violation of the child’s human rights. According to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the child has the right to enjoy the best possible health status. States committed to the agreement have a duty to take action to eliminate traditional practices harmful to children. The responsibility for discussing and preventing a girl’s circumcision lies with all those who work with families with children. Similarly, if there is a suspicion that a girl’s circumcision is being planned, the obligation to notify child welfare in accordance with Article 25 of the Child Welfare Act will be fulfilled. A child welfare report will also be made if circumcision is detected or suspected. The circumcision of girls and women fills the mark of assault. In Finland, the police should investigate mutilation as an assault or aggravated assault. Aggravated abuse is the case, ‘if serious bodily injury is caused by an incident, another serious bodily injury,a serious disease or a life-threatening condition is caused, the offence is committed in a This is criminal law. However, it is extremely regrettable that the cases of female mutilation have not progressed to the point of justice, which means that this entry in the law does not take place in these cases. But now, at last, in the public debate, we are debating and we are talking and we are also making good and worthwhile legislative initiatives. Minister Annika Saarikko said last season that banning women's circumcision in Finland would be a very strong message, and indeed we are now taking action. Regarding my question, the Minister answered what we can do here in Finland: ‘The prevention and treatment of girl-circumcision is maintained Finland is committed to international agreements to promote the human rights of women and children and to prevent violence against women. In Finland there is circumcision of girls and women In its reply, the Minister continues: ‘Healthin school health care is the organisation of health checks in each grade of Some of the health checks are extensive and always involve parents. The circumcision of girls is advised to speak with each child and guardian who moved from the country in question to Finland during all health checks. In a confidential and safe interaction, this has been seen as a good thing. THL has also promised to monitor the resources of school health care on a regular basis in order to make good staffing recommendations. The action programme to prevent circumcision in Finland also supports the maintenance and development of professional competence.” The Minister concludes: ‘It is necessary to ensure regionally and locally that national guidelines are used and how the process is progressing in a situation where there is a threat or suspicion of surgery around the And when we are dealing with this issue in Espoo, the Council took the matter seriously in Espoo and decided unanimously in the Council that we want to organise comprehensive and active training to prevent female genital mutilation. And practical and binding instructions are intended to apply to professionals who deal with people from cultures where girls are circumcised. And girls' circumcision is also wanted as part of sexual health education. So I saw important and important things. My speech was long now, but the subject is also important. This was my first speech on this maiming theme, which has already been discussed in Parliament. I would like to thank the members of the Assembly for their good legislative initiatives and I will support them. I think they have exactly the message our society needs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u215	Mr President! The mutilation and damage to the genital organs of girls and women for no apparent medical reason is brutal, shocking. Girls who are at risk of being mutilated are also currently living in Finland. However, there is no law in Finland that would bring such activities directly to justice and condemn them both in Finland and to Finnish citizens abroad. A separate law is therefore needed, and I support the legislative proposals made by the representatives of Vikma and Sarkomaa. They're very important. Just as Mrs Juvonen said, the Finns have raised the issue and raised it up for discussion and preferably measures to be taken. So now that the representatives of the Coalition Party have done this, I wonder when you have been quite a long time, decades, almost always in the government, that you could have done this a little earlier. [Sofia Vikman’s interlude] I would also like to highlight the circumcision of boys here in the debate. Often the reasons for this are religious or cultural. Neither is circumcision without a medical reason prohibited by law. Both girls and boys, the abuse and violence described above, violate the integrity and sovereignty of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u216	Mr President! The bill on the law against the prevention of female genital mutilation is important. To begin with, of course, I would like to thank Mr Vikman and Mr Sarkomaa for their joint legislative initiative under Articles 9 and 10 and for raising this whole issue. I remember that, as far back as last season, Mr Vikman took parliamentary action, a written question and so on, but it is important that we now have a legislative initiative on these issues. In fact, the important speeches made by the representatives of Vikman, Sarkomaa, Juvonen, Peltokangas and many other colleagues have become all relevant, and I am not going to repeat them in this debate on the draft law. I would just like to say that this is an important issue and that it is also a measure of whether we, as a Parliament, are able to make changes to this criminal law and to this whole. During the last term, I was a member of the Legal Committee and there the need for a larger whole, Article 20 of the Criminal Code, was recognised and, in a joint parliamentary capacity, it was also required for the rest of the period. It has nothing to do with this, but it does have to do with this type of thing. Let's hope there's courage and strength in the ministry. Courage is not only about making legislation, but also about putting these legislative initiatives at the forefront of their preparation and getting the government's proposal into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u217	Mr President! I was thinking of taking the floor. This has spoken to a large number of people, and this has become a lot of feedback over the years. So we now have a legislative initiative to prevent female and female genital mutilation, and first of all — here, a few representatives, I think, were the first to take the boys along with them — I think that boys should be included in this law in the same way. Sometimes words have been used here that multiculturalism is a wealth, and this is one of the drawbacks of multiculturalism. Now we are going to have to go down this multicultural road by law, and I absolutely want to support this initiative with all my strength. This is important. That genital mutilation is a cultural tradition. It's outrageous, it's a submissive crime, it's a medieval crime, and it's a terrible habit that has come with these foreign cultures to Finland. What is of interest here — I quote from here a small piece of text: “I see that even when a girl living in Finland is being taken to the foreign countries to be mutilated. The act must be punishable when it is directed at a Finnish citizen or a person permanently resident here or when the perpetrator is a Finnish citizen. Child welfare can ask the police for assistance to prevent e.g. leaving the country if the girl is being exported for genital mutilation. In such a situation, consideration should be given to the need for urgent investment and to request police assistance on that basis.’ To this practical point: If this is the case with parents sending a child to the grandmother’s house, where then these cultural traditions are made and practiced, how will it be judged then? Will the parents be judged in Finland or by grandparents or some other relatives abroad? I believe that such parents, who send their children into such a procedure, should be held responsible, and I believe that they can also be sent in the same direction as their children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u218	Madam President! It has been a pleasure to note that there is broad support for this issue in this House across party boundaries. There seems to be so much support that there is good reason to believe that this whole package of legislative initiatives is now moving forward. Indeed, there have already been parliamentary measures on behalf of the parliamentary group in the last term. First of all, of course, it is important to ban mutilation as a crime title, and then, on the other hand, to prevent mutilation. The representative, Mr Salmon, pointed out that this would mean that the penalties for acts of violence and sexual offences in general would be increased. It is precisely here that we have had one purpose, that is to say, as I said in my presentation, the bill is intended to improve the prevention of female mutilation, to improve the knowledge of the authorities involved, that is to say the enforcement of criminal liability, and also to strengthen penalties for acts. And it is also true that the penalties for sexual and violent crimes could be tightened up across the board, but that is a different question from what we are dealing with today. Not only must we send out a clear message about the criminality and condemnation of these acts, but we must also make criminal liability a reality so that we can better protect these girls who live under the threat of mutilation. That is why this very united message from this Chamber to promote this legislation is important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u219	Mr President! It is a good thing that this debate is now also sending out a strong signal that female genital mutilation must be prohibited by a separate law. This is a strong message across party boundaries. The last parliamentary term was considered here, and yes, the initiative for action was taken by me myself and there was a strong debate on this issue, and it is now important that we get those measures. The position of the Minister of Justice is somewhat unclear. He clearly did not say whether he was in favour of a separate ban. It is important and essential now that this bill has received this strong support, as well as the citizens' initiative, that Parliament is now taking this legislation forward so that we can bring this separate criminalisation to an end in this parliamentary term. As I said, the actions of the last period were raised here. We have a lot of things that maybe we should have done and that I'm sure we should have done. I welcome the fact that, last season, for example, child marriages were finally banned — in the many parliamentary years we have been discussing them. No more exceptions are granted, children have the right to have children and marriage belongs to adults. These shortcomings, which concern our children, must all be eradicated from legislation. It is now time for this legislation, and it is indeed important that this law should be adopted during this period. I welcome — and I say this again — that, under the leadership of Minister Saariko, the previous government did so in order to prevent the mutilation of the operational programme. It is important that the programme of measures be taken forward and, above all, that we have the instruments to bring this up. And when this is often about children and their parents, I would also point out that in my first bill, which is a couple of this Vikman bill, reference is also added to the design of such activities, and thus also all who are involved are also criminalized here. In that sense, these legislative initiatives take account of the issues raised in this debate. I really hope that the government parties will also send a message to the Minister of Justice that this separate criminalised legislation will actually be brought to an end in this parliamentary term, that we do not need to start the next parliamentary term by asking why this law has not been enacted when we are all very unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u220	Madam President! Indeed, the girl’s genital mutilation theme came up in 2017 when Fenix ry published a report on the subject. The Finns Party raised the issue strongly at the time, and in August 2017 I submitted a written question to which the Minister also answered. Similarly, in 2017, the Government's report on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was discussed here, and I also made a strong point there about our role – including in relation to violence against women in this theme of female mutilation – in other words, what Finland can do globally and how we can be political decision-makers at the major decision-making tables there to explain the importance of this issue. Agenda 2030 is therefore a report. It is an action programme for sustainable development and mentions gender equality as follows: ‘It is important to achieve gender equality and the rights and opportunities of women and girls. “ The aim is to end discrimination and violence against girls and women. Efforts will also be made to put an end to harmful practices against women, such as trafficking in human beings, child marriages and genital mutilation. I remember that during that debate in 2017, when I asked about this issue, we were talking about these child marriages. It is a good thing that this important issue has been dealt with, but I do not recall that this genital mutilation would then have been discussed in the Chamber. So we have a common cause, and this is a very important theme for Finns. Hopefully this will proceed quickly, smoothly and quickly. It is great that we all talk, because everyone here will certainly be able to admit that the theme is difficult and the theme has certainly also been challenging, but now, fortunately now, our mouths are open and we have the courage to take a stand on this issue without stigmatizing anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u221	Mr President! These legislative initiatives, which are being discussed, and others on this subject are to be welcomed for a number of reasons that have already been said. I'm not going to repeat those reasons. It is clear that such practices are not part of the civilised state, and I am very disappointed that normal legislation on assault offences has not been able to condemn these acts. I do not know why it is a question of legislation or of the unwillingness of the authorities, but now such separate legislation, as in other Nordic countries, seems necessary in this regard. I therefore expect that it will now be speeded up, as there seems to be a consensus in this House that there is a need. I would add that, now that these supported laws are being enacted, account should also be taken of the fact that the non-medically justified genital mutilation of boys would also be prohibited at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u222	Mr President! Indeed last week there was also a citizens' initiative here in the Chamber, which proposed a law that would prevent female genital mutilation. In other words, it is a matter of widespread concern and talk, and since I was not there at the time and was not able to speak on this subject, I would also like to thank these citizens' initiative makers for the fact that this subject is now being discussed extensively. Once again: a very well-supported bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-16-ps-51.u223	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
