ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u1	The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has today asked the Council of Presidents for more time for its work, and that is why the Council of Presidents has decided that the session will be closed today at 7 p.m. and then the Constitutional Committee will be able to continue its work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 13/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general discussion begins. — Mr Filatov, Chairman of the Committee, on a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u3	Mr President! So there's a change in the annual holiday law. This proposal proposes to amend the annual holiday law to make certain changes in order to ensure compliance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. These amendments would safeguard the minimum requirements required by the case-law of the Working Time Directive. It is therefore a question of each worker having four weeks' paid annual leave, even if he is absent from work by order of sickness, accident or doctor for the purpose of restoring or maintaining the ability to work due to an occupational disease or accident. It has been established from the case-law that in Finland the provisions of the Annual Holidays Act do not adequately safeguard the right of an employee to receive paid annual leave. The limit, which is considered to be equal to employment, is 75 working days. On the other hand, if disability and illness persist beyond this, it will no longer be cumulated as annual leave. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u6	Minister Lindström. Is three minutes enough? Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u7	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Filatov for presenting the report and to the committee for this report. Perhaps in terms of objectives and background, this was aimed at making the minimum necessary changes to the annual leave law necessary to ensure compliance with the case law of the EU Court of Justice. As the President-in-Office mentioned in his presentation, the Working Time Directive is a minimum regulation and requires four weeks of paid annual leave for workers, including in the event of long-term sick leave. As far as content is concerned, since the regulation of the annual leave law on working time does not guarantee a minimum right to leave for long periods of sick leave, it is proposed in the Government's proposal to safeguard the minimum right by means of an additional leave entitlement, which was also mentioned here. This proposed supplementary leave system ensures that workers are entitled to at least four weeks' leave. During the additional days of leave, the employee will receive compensation equivalent to the normal salary. The pay required by the Working Time Directive will be realised in this way. Therefore, neither the Working Time Directive nor the relevant case-law can be drawn, as the President also pointed out, from the conclusion that annual leave or additional leave should be increased during an additional period of leave, provided that these minimum requirements of the Directive are met. The big question here was, of course, that it is very difficult to bring the requirements set out in the EUT case-law into line with the complicated annual holiday law and the system of earning it. The Government considered that the annual leave law was in need of reform, so there was a need for an overall reform, and according to the plan for implementing the government programme we were also meant to implement this. The aim was to make the necessary changes to EU case law as part of the overall reform of the annual holiday law, and this work started after the work of the working group that prepared the working time law. The annual leave law is part of the whole package of working time regulation, and it would certainly have been desirable for us to have found a solution to the simpler annual leave regulation. However, during the preparatory work, the social partners considered that there were no conditions for an overall reform within the time frame available, and this was also influenced by the Working Time Act, which was being discussed at the same time. The overall reform of the annual holiday law is likely to be forthcoming for the next government, and I wish the minister who will take this forward with his strength and wisdom. A very complex entity, but the need for global reform is obvious.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u8	Mr President! The bill itself includes a positive change in the establishment of a relatively small group of holiday rights. Its problem, however, is that, according to the experts consulted in committee, implementation does not meet the requirements of the directive. The directive refers to the right to annual leave, i.e. the right to annual leave. This has been resolved by providing the right to extra days. The extra days and the annual leave are two different things. This problem is caused by the fact that several benefits have been linked to annual leave in Finland under national law, either through collective agreements or otherwise, which are not required by this EU directive and which are not now wanted to be extended to these days that have been designated as additional days. It does not, however, remove the fact that annual leave is annual leave and the additional days are then some other leave that is not annual leave. If it is perceived as a problem that we have at national level an issue of annual leave which is not specifically protected by the directive and which is not wanted to be extended, then this problem should have been resolved by dismantling the link between the concept of annual leave and these other benefits. I personally do not see this as a problem because it is, however, such a small group and a small number of days that the economic impact of the change, that is, if we had done this without squirming on an annual holiday, would be about the same size as the IT reforms required by this additional day solution. The report states that it has been decided to support the government's proposal for additional days, because the EU case-law cannot and certainly cannot be regarded as an inappropriate way of responding to the obligation. In my opinion, this is not good legislation. If there is a small possibility that experts in committee have misinterpreted the matter, then it cannot be the basis for us to make new legislation. That is why the report is not unanimous, despite the fact that, compared with the current situation, it improves matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u9	Mr President! I would like to briefly comment on the joint protest of the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left on this bill. The revision of the annual leave law to reflect the working time directive of the European Union, and in particular the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, has taken a long time. Unfortunately, even this season, we did not get the whole reform of the annual holiday law to be discussed here in Parliament, even if that is what we would have needed now. Now we are dealing here with a rather unsuccessful patchwork proposal with which the Finnish annual holiday law has been hoped to meet the requirements of EU law. We who have signed the objection do not accept that the five-week annual leave of the Finnish annual holiday law in force is reduced to its minimum, i.e. four weeks, in the case of absence due to illness, accident or medical rehabilitation, contrary to the requirements of the directive. The expert consultation has made it clear that the mismatch between the basic structure of the Finnish annual holiday law and the structure of the Working Time Directive is not a successful coordination by creating more complexity and a complex model of additional holidays complementary to annual leave, which is, moreover, a completely new concept and still a complex concept. In addition, these additional annual leave days would not be annual leave under the annual holiday law nor would they be equal to working time. Moreover, there would be no additional annual leave for the additional days and the compensation for the additional days would be different from the annual leave salary. According to experts consulted by the committee, such a procedure is not permitted under the case law of the EU Court of Justice. We do not therefore accept the watering down of the annual holiday law or the creation of such a complex and administrative system, the calculation of which cannot even be carried out in the form proposed by the government. The explanatory memorandum of the proposal estimates that 13000 persons will be subject to changes per year, all of whom will have to be computed in accordance with the individual formula for additional days. In view of the fact that this is a fundamental right enshrined in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Government's proposal is even more suspicious. According to Article 31(2) of the Charter, each worker is entitled to an annual period of paid leave. The Finnish court is obliged to apply this Article directly and to waive national law if it conflicts with EU law. Several experts in the committee stressed that the government's proposal does not meet the requirements of EU law and that it contradicts the concept of paid annual leave. There is no derogation from paid annual leave in EU Member States without breaching Article 7 of the Working Time Directive. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government wanted to take the proposal forward in this form. The Finnish Parliament has a significant responsibility not to provide for legislation that is incompatible with EU law or even to suspect that there may be confusion and costly disputes in the labour market. I am quite sure that we will soon have to return to this issue here in Parliament. Mr President! We therefore have in our objection proposals for amendments to the section which would correct the draft law more closely in line with the decisions of the European Court of Justice. On this point, I agree with the Minister that we need an overall reform of the annual holiday law soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u10	Madam President! The proposed amendments to the annual holiday law are intended to incorporate into national law the provisions of the EU Court of Justice guidelines on the interpretation of the annual holiday regulation. The draft law improves the position of workers who have been absent from work for a long time due to incapacity to work. It is proposed to include in the Annual Holidays Act provisions on entitlement to additional annual leave leave, i.e. a separate scheme which is not comparable to annual leave, as well as compensation for additional days. Additional leave days are neither annual leave nor time considered to be equal to working time, and according to the draft law, there is no new annual leave. An employee is entitled to additional leave if the annual leave he or she earns during the full year of leave is less than 24 annual leave days due to sickness, accident or occupational disease or accident prescribed by the doctor due to absence due to medical rehabilitation to restore or maintain his or her ability to work. According to the proposal, the employee has the right to receive compensation for additional days of leave equal to or equal to his or her average salary. The remuneration shall be based on the salary at the beginning of the additional leave. Reimbursement for additional leave shall not entitle you to a leave allowance under a contract of employment or a contract of employment, unless otherwise agreed in these agreements. Mr President! The Committee's expert hearings have highlighted the views that additional holidays should be defined as annual holidays, which should also raise new annual holidays on the basis of EU law. On the other hand, according to a report received by the committee, neither the Working Time Directive nor the relevant case-law can be concluded that the annual leave or the corresponding additional holidays should accumulate a new annual holiday and therefore does not justify the accumulation of the holiday allowance. The cost impact of the proposal on employers is estimated to be around EUR 18 million for the private sector, as has been heard here, and over EUR 4 million for the public sector. The new rule also increases some administrative work, the need to modernise information systems and the training needs of personnel in human resources management. Mr President! At this stage, only the minor amendments deemed necessary in the light of the case law of the EU Court of Justice have been proposed for the annual leave Act. Minister Lindström made clear the objectives of the Ministry in relation to the overall reform of the Working Time Act, but they have now had to be abandoned. The committee notes that the annual holiday law is already a rather complex package and the proposed new concepts are not conducive to simplifying regulation. The committee therefore considers that the preparation of the overall reform of the annual holiday law to update the legislative provisions should be continued as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u11	Madam President! Rarely in committee do we come across a matter that produces such conflicting expert opinions as has been the case with this annual holiday law. I can well understand that it is very difficult to follow this debate from the gallery, because even the experts we have heard were not very competent and watertight each time to explain what is going on. It is certainly difficult to start from the fact that, contrary to the requirements of the directive, the annual leave of five weeks in force in Finland is reduced to a minimum of four weeks in the case of absence due to illness, accident or medical rehabilitation. It is also difficult to accept a model whose calculation method cannot even be carried out in the form proposed by the Board of Directors. It should be borne in mind that the committee also states in its own report that this proposal, which has now been tabled, is not unambiguously contrary to EU law, i.e. it is not unambiguously contrary to EU law, i.e. the border fences are going on all the time. Since this reform will affect some 13,000 people, all of whom will have to be computed in accordance with the individual formula for additional days, I would like to ask the Minister in particular: how are employers now instructed to calculate these 13,000 days of leave in accordance with this difficult and even more difficult formula? At the same time, I agree with Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u12	Madam President! During the process of processing this proposal, I myself had relatively little opportunity to be in committee, but I agree with this protest with all my heart. This is a very failed patching-up attempt this time, as has been said here. It is complex in its calculation and, above all, it violates the worker's legal security. Man’s illness must not cut man’s legal security and rights vis-à-vis other workers, and I really would like this whole Chamber to understand this. This applies to all of us if we happen to get sick. This is not just some of the people and workers, it is all of us. When you read this text and go to the end of your protest, it says: ‘In the view of the government that we have signed,you have to meet the requirements of EU law. It contradicts them.’ This, in itself, should be a statement which this House as a whole could endorse. There is now an accident at work, and while we are still in a situation where even experts cannot find out about this, such legislation should not leave this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u13	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen has just described the fact that there is going to be an accident here, resulting in long-term political sick leave — as Mr Ihalainen whispered there when I was just saying sick away. We must dare to see these things in such a way that we are not forced to return to this subject again. As a representative of the trade union movement, it must be said that if our own system has not always been able to be up to date, we have had to call on the EU to help us in matters of working life. This confusion of terminology — which is now being added with one new term ‘ extra day ’ — complicates the issue. It would be very important to understand that if the annual leave law is a bit complicated, it is in itself clear: we have monthly wage earners and hourly wage earners, and their own sectors have very own criteria. And it's not a mess. It's not a mess. It is, of course, a good thing that the debate on working time law has risen in this Chamber. It would certainly be a good thing in itself, as the Minister has pointed out here, to clarify matters, to bring understanding to this annual holiday law. In certain ways it should be simplified and made clearer. We have a number of interpretative matters there, starting with the beginning of the employment relationship, because we start to accumulate for 2.5 days when we have the date of the start of the employment relationship, and how much annual leave we have to pay for the time worked. - But now it looks like the clock is ticking. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Madam President! The subject is indeed worthy of discussion, and it is good that this is now being discussed. It is probably the case that this Chamber will vote in favour of the government proposal and the point, but we will have to return to this subject, and that is why I want to speak. For example, in the annual holiday law, long sick leave is in a different position, which certainly complicates this increase in annual leave: we have employers' paid days — after nine days or after three months — and we have different mechanisms. Those who are inside this thing are gonna be fine with it. However, with this diversity in our labour market that companies have outsourced pay, the level of skills in this area is not so good at the moment. And it must also be noted that we have different regulations in collective agreements. In itself, the law is relatively clear, but when we add to this the fact that we have different interpretations in collective agreements or, let us say it in real terms, that we social partners, or unions, have decided on certain issues as to how they are to be followed. [MarttiMölsä intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u14	That is what I am trying to agree with. — Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u15	Mr President! Well, then I guess I should say, "God bless you." — The reason why I have agreed with this objection relates to what happened in committee. The committee therefore noted in the report: ‘The committee considers that the proposed legislation cannot be considered to be in breach of EU law without the guidelines on Nor can it be regarded as unambiguously compatible with the law. In fact, it was the experts who were experts in EU law who believed that this additional day procedure was not in line with the directive and that it was a matter of concern that we are now carrying out a partial reform — I understand the pain of the Minister here, this is not an easy matter — on the basis of certain case-laws. After that, we still have case-law on Finland, after which we are going to reform again, after which perhaps there will be an overall reform. And in all these situations, the entrepreneur will have to change his information systems so that the holiday wages can be calculated. Now this law is taking a risk because of the savings of a few hundred thousand euros: if these additional days were unambiguously holiday days, the cost effect would be a few hundred thousand euros more than what the estimates are now — not millions, but hundreds of thousands of people are talking about, according to the estimates that the committee has heard. And that is why we are taking an EU risk, which is why we are taking a risk in which the employer more than once has to change his IT systems and train his wage calculators and many other administrative and bureaucratic things to do here along the way. Therefore, it would have been wise to stay on holiday in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u16	Madam President! However, the amount raised by Mr Filatov is EUR 2.8 million and not a few hundred thousand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u19	Madam President! Now that the minister is still here and I'm sure he'll answer soon, since they were so widely aware of these different points of the Working Time Act, which are, as it were, on the desk and on the line of work, I'd like to ask: Why was this proposal so busy that it could not be expected that the overall reform would take place? Why did it now have to be imported as a single separate point? If you could get a little more light on this, it would make the pain a little easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u20	Mr President! The saddest thing about this process is that EU law and the decisions of the European Court of Justice were taken in such a way as to ‘see how it is going to be,and then adjust some time later,if it appears to be’. Yes, better practice from the point of view of high-quality legislation would have been to review and ensure this before it was brought here to be decided by Parliament. The problem was identified in committee, and the whole committee and now all the representatives here know that the risk of the European Court of Justice repealing this law is high. I do not think that this risk should have been taken at this stage. This would have been worth moving forward and ensuring, because if this law is repealed, it will also lead to additional costs for employers, and at least it will cause confusion and much more work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u21	Madam President! I, too, am on the business of the entrepreneur: the increase in costs is also one of the things that worries me here. But now I would have liked — in fact, to target this minister — to be the church in the middle of the village. Having heard the cost of over EUR 1 million in Mrs Talja's speech and then the cost of a few hundred thousand mentioned by the chairman of the committee, I now ask the Minister what fork we are in. How can we here, who will then vote on this, deal with this issue? I would not want any additional costs for Finnish SMEs, at least not for larger business organisations. Where are we between a million and a few hundred thousand? If the Minister could kindly bring his own point of view to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u22	Chairman of the Committee, Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u23	Mr President! I also assumed at first that those costs would be a few million, as Mrs Talja said, because that was the kind of information we received in committee. But if you read a government proposal, it says about the cost that if these extra days were normal holidays, they would add 13 percent to the cost of the presentation. And if the cost of the performance is 22 million, then, in fact, according to my percentage, there will be no extra percentages for many millions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u24	Then Minister Lindström, reply, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u25	Madam Speaker! If we start with this whole thing at all. In other words, as a reminder that the Working Time Act and the Year Holiday Act were at the same time in the triad. The Working Time Act took a lot of time: it was a year and a half when it was twisted. As a result, although we wanted to reform the annual holiday law as a whole, we no longer had the resources to do so. We're running out of time. And, as I said, the social partners also said that it is not possible to carry out an overall reform within this timetable. Yes, there was a debate in the Ministry about whether or not this will be imported in the first place. I did have a very serious reflection on this, particularly on what the representatives have pointed out, that there is still this uncertain situation, that what is now EU practice. I have fully understood this. It was not an easy thing to make a decision, but I made a decision that this is the way to bring it to Parliament, to do what has to be done at its minimum. But at the same time I have recognised and recognised that the need for global reform is quite clear. The annual holiday law is so complicated that hardly many people in this country are in control — not by me at the time — without a helpbook, and yet it can be a little challenging. So it is clear that we will have to come back to this, because, as Mr Talja said, the transformation of work and work, the new ways of working, all of this forces us to make reforms not only in the working time law but also in the annual holiday law that meet today's challenges. I hope, Mr Laukkanen, that although my answer, which was like this round, may not reassure your life, it will make it easier for me to have to wrestle with this issue and understood. I had several debates with the chairman of the committee on this, when he said, he said that whether or not there is a need to do this now could perhaps be withdrawn. I think seriously about this, but in any case, I ended up with the minimum. This is a partial solution that is not without problems. I understand that there are certain challenges here. These costs. I do, of course, have the same information as in the report and in the committee's hearing, as Mr Filatov has pointed out. It's not just the cost of these things, is it? We must remember that in the current annual holiday law, for example, with the help of the Constitutional Committee, we have provided that regulation on working time on the basis of sickness or accident — that is to say, annual leave is only 75 working days — has not been regarded as constitutionally problematic. With this proposal, we will improve the level of rights for workers with long sick leave compared to the current annual leave law, i.e. this is also a plus compared to the current situation. But I'm not going to hide behind any tree. I note that this is not a problem, but the next government will certainly return to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u26	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 32/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Let's open a general discussion. — Mr Eerola, Chairman of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u27	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes changes to five entities laid down in the Foreign Act. The amendments concern the conditions for admissibility of a reapplication and the enforcement of a rendition, the right to work for an applicant for international protection, the taking over of a travel document for an applicant for international protection and the requirement of the Aliens Act on the minority of the congregator. The committee considers the proposed amendments necessary and appropriate. The number and proportion of these applications for asylum and applications for international protection submitted in Finland have increased in recent years. According to the statistics of the Finnish Immigration Service in 2018, 47 per cent of all asylum applications — 4548 of them last year — or nearly half of them were such re-applications. According to the survey, the high proportion of these re-applications is not due only to the exceptionally high number of asylum applications in 2015, as is often the case. The aim of this bill is to reduce the number of re-applications by directing applicants to present all the facts and arguments which are relevant to their application for international protection already in the context of its first application or in the context of an appeal against it. Some of these applicants only submit a re-application in order to delay their removal from the country. The purpose of this proposal is also to reduce the scope for abuse of the re-application procedure. However, the committee would point out that if the re-application sets out new criteria for determining the solution, the application must be examined in order to assess the need for international protection. The proposed provisions on admissibility aim to improve the processing of re-applications within the limits of EU law and Article 9(4) of the Constitution. The committee notes that, according to the Procedural Directive, the applicant is not entitled to remain on the territory of a Member State in all circumstances in connection with the examination of a re-application. A second re-application currently precludes the enforcement of this decision of refusal if the previous re-application has not been examined. It is now proposed to amend the text of the law in such a way that it is no longer relevant from the point of view of the enforcement of the decision on refusal of access to the previous application, whether it has not been examined or dealt with in the ordinary procedure, or even in an accelerated procedure. At present, the first re-application usually prevents the enforcement of the decision to withdraw. According to the proposal, the first re-application shall no longer prevent the enforcement of a final decision of refusal under an earlier application where the re-application is intended only to prevent or delay the immediate implementation of this decision. Immediate implementation is involved, for example, when the practical preparations for removal have been started and the estimated date of removal, or even its date, is already known. In these circumstances, the applicant is aware of the obligation to leave the country on the basis of an earlier decision. The committee stresses that, even in these situations, consideration of implementation must take account of the fact that the applicant's legal security requires that he has had a real opportunity to submit the application earlier. Then the right to work for those seeking international protection is also being addressed a little. It is now proposed that the date of the start of the right to work for the applicant for international protection be slightly clarified. The committee does not consider it consistent from a regulatory point of view that a person should have the right to work in situations where he or she is obliged to leave Finland. With regard to the taking over of this travel document, which I mentioned at the outset, the committee still considers it justified to include in the Aliens Act a provision on the taking over of a travel document seeking international protection. The aim is to ensure the smooth functioning of the asylum procedure, since the missing travel document does not prevent, for example, the identification of the applicant or the removal of the person who has received a negative decision. Furthermore, it is proposed that the applicant for a residence permit for an employee will in future have the possibility of seeking access to the employment of an employer who is active in a sector other than that mentioned in the previous worker’s residence permit. The change has no impact on the work of the occupational safety and health supervisory authority. In this context too, the Committee stresses the importance of effective ex ante and ex post monitoring of working conditions and safeguarding the rights of foreign workers. Mr President! Here is this report. There were two objections, and we will probably hear about them later today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u28	Madam President! I left 3.8. a written question to the government on the reform of the asylum application. In the introduction to the question, I said: ‘According to the current law,the same personcan apply for asylum in Finland. According to public information, thousands of people who have received a negative asylum decision are staying in reception centres. Some of these have applied for asylum up to five times.” I put a question to the government: ‘Is the government aware that the decision to refuse asylum has been given to the asylum seeker that he can renew several applications and that I believe that this bill before us is concrete evidence of the government's actions. Thank you for that. In my opinion, people must not be discriminated against either positively or negatively. All of us must be treated equally, in the same way, especially in court cases. For example, when a Finnish citizen processes his case in a court of law, he or she can show discontent with the court’s decision and apply for an appeal to the Supreme Court. Once the case has been settled and the decision has been taken, the case will be closed. As I recall, I believe there will be a seal in the decision that this decision will be followed by all the parties involved. So that's the end of the case. The Finnish does not get his point out over and over again. Therefore, Mr President, when an ordinary Finn is required to state all the facts which are relevant to the handling of the case immediately at the first hearing, I believe that the same important information at first reading or in the interview can rightly be required from the applicant for asylum. That is why, Mr President, I think it is important that everyone in our legal system is treated equally and in the same way. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u29	Mr President! Once again, we are dealing with a number of amendments to the Aliens Act, which has been the subject of many changes during this period. The most important of these changes is precisely that these government proposals aim to ensure that the asylum seeker declares all matters relevant to the application or in favour of its positive conclusion at first reading. This change can indeed be considered to be quite justified in order to really achieve the situation in which this asylum process will also become clearer and, at first reading, all the elements relating to the applicant's decision on protection will be examined. Then we can move forward with these other measures, namely that those who will then have a positive decision must be integrated and those who will have a negative decision must be released, and both of us have room for improvement. Mr President! There have been a lot of comments on how this relates to the legal protection of asylum seekers and to the previous changes that have been made in this Chamber in 2016, and that is why the Socialist Group tabled a motion for a resolution to this effect, which would make it clear to Parliament that these changes, which were made in 2016, were thus undermined by the limitation of appeal periods and also by the limitation of the availability of assistants, would be re-examined and would allow a few different solutions to be made, which would also lead to a slightly more detailed examination of the asylum process. This would also support the aim of this proposal to ensure that the asylum procedure would go as smoothly as possible and be resolved through a single procedure, and would not then have to rely, from both the applicant's point of view and the social point of view, on the fact that these applications will always be completed in the aftermath, which has led to this process being prolonged. Of course, these lengthenings of processing periods are also reflected in the fact that people who will not have a positive residence permit at last are still here in Finland and will not be able to return them if a valid negative residence permit decision is received.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u30	Irade the Talman! There are some good things in this presentation. It is a good thing that this will facilitate access testing. It is good that the situation of an asylum seeker who came to Finland as a minor should also be improved. It is, of course, a pity that this came not from the government's own will, but from the fact that the EU became anote on this issue. But there are considerable problems with this proposal. This proposal has not assessed the impact of human rights, which, of course, should be done in a human rights state. The EU Procedural Directive applies here in a way that brings Finland’s standards to those minimum standards — i.e. no more, no less than precisely those minimum standards — and, of course, it is appropriate to ask whether this is the right line for Finland. We know that we already have problems dealing with asylum processes. This has been admitted by the Ministry of the Interior, which has been granted by the Supreme Administrative Court. This is what the Finnish lawyers have said. This is currently being investigated. We know that the human rights situation and the equality of men and women have been violated, weakened, weakened by the deterioration in 16 years ago. Nevertheless, a change is now being made which, according to expert judgements, undermines legal certainty, endangers an absolute non-return ban. The question is whether we want such a change in a situation where the problems of the system are obvious and recognised. Contrary to what Mr Eerola said, the result of a large number of re-applications is precisely that procedures have been weakened, that not everyone has the right to an assistant at the beginning of the process. It is also clear from the study that the main reason is that we had tens of thousands of applications between 15 and 16 years. There are a few thousand of them this year. So it is clear that the number of re-applications will then be large. According to the survey, there are a considerable number of other re-applications, with even fewer third re-applications. What is essential here is that if we find that the proposal is found to jeopardise legal certainty, we will react to it. If any proposal undermines the mother’s legal protection, the friend’s legal protection, the brother’s, the sister’s legal protection, then that is not what we want. If it endangers the legal protection of a foreigner who came here, do we want to do that? I do not think that such a proposal should be taken forward in the rule of law. Nevertheless, this should be accepted. Nevertheless, this should, among other things, be accepted by the voices of the demars, which I regret.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u31	Madam President! There are really good things in this government proposal, which means that we cannot blame the whole thing directly. But in addition to these positive changes, this government proposal contains a great deal of problematic issues which are extremely difficult to justify and which are poorly justified in their entirety. Article 95 of the Aliens Act A new article has been proposed, which would allow the authorities to take over the travel documents of the asylum seeker. Such a restriction is weakly justified, in particular given that Chapter 7 of the Aliens Act already provides for possible security measures to safeguard the process, one of which is the possibility under Article 119 to order the transfer of the travel document to the police. In view of that, this seems unnecessary. Then, if you look at Articles 79 and 80 of the Aliens Act, the proposed amendments want to make the right of the asylum seeker to work breaker, i.e. if he or she is working at a possible re-application stage earlier, he or she loses his or her job after a negative decision. In addition, the proposed changes would lead to a new period of time for re-application of labour law as opposed to the first application. Therefore, depending on whether a person has a valid travel document, he would have to wait 3 or 6 months from the date of submission of the re-application in order to be able to work. In other words, this prevents such a foreigner and a refugee who wants to come to Finland from working opportunities and is thus excluded from our working life. The right to work for an asylum seeker is not only a sensible tool for society but also a key tool for a person to attach himself to and strengthen his or her involvement in Finnish society. The right to work strengthens the individual's independence and is a key factor in launching successful integration. In addition to human considerations, restricting the right to work is economically irrational and binds applicants to reception services and reception grants. Thus they are deprived of the opportunity to make a living with their own work. In our opinion, such new asylum policy tightening ups should not be done at this stage before numerous previous blackmails have been evaluated and the problems caused by them in the asylum procedure and those errors have been corrected. In particular, the extortion of legal aid and appeal periods for asylum seekers in 2016 has caused serious legal security problems, which have also been recognised by the Ministry of Justice's own inquiry and proposed to be corrected. Last year, 11.4 % of completed applications led to a positive decision, i.e. more than one in ten received a positive decision on these complaints. It shows that the first time these proceedings have failed. Limiting the re-application and speeding up returns would mean an increased risk of Finland violating the unconditional ban on the return of international law and turning people to countries where they are threatened with persecution, torture or other inhumane treatment. Re-applications must also, in principle, be examined individually and thoroughly. All in all, if you think about these processes, then if they had been done properly, the whole thing, from the start, and you could make a reliable and good decision the first time, then we wouldn't need these reapplications, then things would work out well and properly. But it requires a resource that has been lacking all along.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u32	Madam President! As Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Semi pointed out above, there are a lot of problems and individual legislative changes in this bill which should not be made at this stage before a clear overall assessment has been carried out and it would be possible to ensure that the processes are in order and that every asylum seeker is indeed treated fairly. As the Ministry of Justice itself has acknowledged, these blackmails, which have been carried out in recent years, have caused very serious legal security problems, and they should first be corrected before new blackmails start. The tightening of the legal aid so that no assistant is available is the biggest problem, and this is precisely the result that the first reading or the first interview may not be able to give all the information, and that is why these re-applications will be needed later. From the very beginning of the processes we should ensure that everyone receives the legal assistance they need, adequate interpretation services and all, so that these processes can at least, in principle, be fair. The situation is that, as a result, many of these re-applications have to be made, and at this stage these re-applications should not now be limited because the situation is not in order from the start of the process. But as has also been said in this very beginning, there is something good in this proposal, and that is precisely the fact that the examination of the availability of labour is abandoned in cases where a person has resided and worked in Finland for one year, and this is a very important change. It is also very good that this family reunification practice should be changed so that if the process has been prolonged and the applicant has reached the age of 18 years, it would not be interrupted. Unfortunately, as Mr Adlercreutz said earlier, this was by no means a government proposal, but it is now the practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but it is great that it is now here in the law. But overall, as we know, the number of asylum seekers has decreased significantly. We now have no need for any particular blackmail in this process, but we should ensure that all the processes are well-resourced. That's how we can speed them up. The Greens' representative was not involved in the committee's decisive deliberations, but we are behind this protest from the RKP and the left.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u33	Madam President! I would like to thank the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Eerola, for presenting a good report on that platform and say that the purpose of this proposal by the government is indeed to reduce the possibility of abuse of the re-application procedure for international protection and to direct applicants to present all the facts and arguments that they know about the application for international protection already in connection with the first application or the appeal against it. Of course, it is very important that every applicant receives fair treatment and treatment. It is important and important, and I also attach great importance to the fact that these processes are smooth, they are fast and all the things that touch the person and that he knows will be made public and, as a result, the processes will be speeded up. It also brings us savings in society. I also attach great importance to the fact that, at a time when this lengthy process and possibly the many applications have been completed and when a person is given the decision whether to stay or to receive a negative decision, it will also be introduced and implemented — and in particular that the country will be left if he has received a negative asylum decision, because I see that it is not in anyone's interest that such persons stay in Finland. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health recently adopted a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act. After all, 5.4 million resources have been allocated to social care for those living in the country in the state budget, which means that they will have a place to stay, food and then medicines if necessary. I think it is important that, after first aid, when the emergency is over and, for example, when this aid has been given in winter, these people must leave the country. I do not think it is good that we create attraction factors and it is possible to stay here in Finland and then use these services. In other words, when we talk about these things, we also have to take realistic account of the fact that we do not know how many illegal residents there are in Finland — that number is thousands — and as long as we do not know who is staying here in our country, then the situation is worrying. It also feeds crime, as bad as it is to say, but thefts, pickpockets, and so on are taking place on the street. I just got word yesterday that a lady was assaulted at the railway station by someone with a foreign background. There has also been a report of an offence, and that is where the matter is being dealt with. But as long as we do not know who the people are, we must leave the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u35	Madam President! This government proposal to amend the Aliens Act is necessary and welcome. When you look at the statistics, more than half of Finland's asylum seekers do not need international protection, but nevertheless these applications are renewed and tried to obtain asylum through changed stories. The system is under strain because these unnecessary re-applications are made, and one may ask whether our limited resources will then genuinely target those who need help when they are used by people who benefit from the prolonged process and the unnecessary application process. In a certain way, the present system rewards dishonesty. You might want to come up with some stories to get a new application started. It is only right that the matter of asylum seekers should be resolved at once correctly and therefore the possibility of unlimited reapplication should be restricted. The number of asylum seekers was referred to here. Regardless of that number, we must develop this system towards fair action and ensure that it works by all means. The aid must be targeted at the real people in need, and this government proposal will lead us towards that goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u36	Mr President! In the course of the debate, perhaps a little misunderstanding has been given to the fact that this change, which actually aims to ensure that the applicant presents all the relevant reasons already in the first application, is now totally limiting the possibilities of introducing these new arguments later, perhaps we should go through this process. First, when the applicant submits his first application, he sets out the grounds on which he thinks he is entitled to international protection. He has the opportunity to put forward additional arguments throughout the process, that is, throughout the process, when it is in progress. Even after he receives the first decision from the Finnish Immigration Service, if it is negative, he will probably complain about it, and he will also have the opportunity to put forward new arguments with regard to this complaint. What this amendment of the law is about now is the situation when the court becomes a final decision, and even after that, if there are relevant reasons in relation to whether or not the applicant will be granted international protection, they will also be taken into consideration. So, Mr President, it is perhaps a bit wrong to suggest that this is a huge restriction on the possibilities in which justified reasons relating to whether or not to apply for international protection can be identified. The question then arises as to the reason why not all the reasons the applicant has could be put at first reading. It is quite clear that, of course, we must encourage the processes and the activities of the authorities to be able to do this at first reading. It involves the issues that were already discussed here in 2016 regarding, for example, the assistant's right of access, which should be restored so that the process would go through once and for all, and there would then be fewer unnecessary re-applications.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u37	Irade the Talman! In other words, there is a problem with this proposal, for example, with the enormous vagueness of assessing whether a re-application has been made with the obvious intention of delaying the matter. When asked in committee, no one was able to answer whether this is a matter of time, how it is assessed, on what objective grounds, and that makes this a vague and problematic proposal. Mr Räsänen said that, of course, everything should be said as early as possible, and this is the case. That is quite clear, and this would be the case in an ideal situation. But just as Mr Räsänen said earlier, the changes in 2016 have put this issue at risk. In other words, if we want to push for what Mr Räsänen and Mr Kopra said that, at the earliest possible stage, the best possible explanation of what the criteria are, then it is obvious that we should guarantee the assistant to everyone in order to ensure that the message is sent to the point. In my opinion, these things are interlinked. If we have perfect, good processes, then such changes will be less problematic, but because we have partially weakened processes, and this is widely recognised, then we should not go on making changes that jeopardise legal protection, from the point of view of human rights — that is, according to expert judgements, not according to Mr Adlercreutz, but according to expert judgements. Yes, these connections must be seen and identified and acted responsibly in accordance with their conclusions. As far as attraction is concerned, the attraction factor, which is justified by the fact that it is somehow attractive to come to Finland, vibrates in winter in some shelter outside society without money, without anything — it does not seem terribly attractive now. It seems to me that these things should not be confused with gravitational factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u38	Madam President! Just to be safe, I came here on the podium so I don't have to look at that watch so closely all the time. This bill, which is on the table here, contains a number of different types of issues. As has been said here and I have said myself, it would have been nice if foreign law were changed in such a way that everyone could keep up with it somehow. Now that I remember these six or seven times in the last 18 months, we sometimes had more foreigners at the same time, and then we had to coordinate and see what really changed there, and that is always a problem in committee and probably even in the big Chamber of Parliament. In 2015, when there was a large number of asylum seekers, there has undoubtedly been a situation where not everyone has been able to be interviewed in the same way, as more workers were quickly applied for in Migri. When many more workers are sought with experience that no asylum applications have previously been processed, it is understandable that they were not uniform. That is why in 2016 we opposed the weakening of legal protection, both in terms of the deterioration of the situation of the legal counsel and in terms of these times of appeal, because when we start the process, it is the most appropriate and the best way to do so, of course, is to have the easiest and proper time and proper support to put that first application in place. Well, this is what we lost in this Chamber, and that is probably why some of these applications have been incomplete, and that is why they have then had to be completed and perhaps reapplyed. It must also be stated first that this bill does not prohibit a second, third, fourth, fifth or sixth application. The only change is that, in some cases, it can be estimated that removal can take place even before all these processes have been carried out. This isn't the second time you've been asked to apply. But what is the essential reason for this? We had a debate on this in committee. Someone says it's a cop who decides. Not the head. In any case, it is not the police who are organising the removal, but the police may have a hunch, after which Migri, or the immigration authorities, will assess whether there is a reason for this or not. That is why this is not as black and white as some comments from outside may have been understood. The good thing about this bill is that the 18-year limit is now clearer: it is only when the whole process has been completed that family reunification will be made easier. In my view, the taking over of the travel document, which some parties consider problematic at this point, is more of a record of current practice in the law. There are already situations in which the travel document is taken over by the authorities for that period, but of course, if you need it for another authority or for some business, you can always get it back. But this is still the practice. Then this position of employees. The prohibition of working where removal has become final following a judicial decision: I myself wonder that there may be a bit of this sort of grey economy problem, if, however, that period of time from the actual judicial decision and its validity to the actual departure from the country is very long, and of course it would wish that that time would not be very long. But when we as experts had employee and employer organisations and both sides felt that, once there was a final removal decision, then it should no longer be possible to work for it, then we are behind this proposal. Then we have talked about this question of access in other parts of the legislative proposals, and it is understandable at this point that when a person is working here and then changing jobs, there is no need to do that for these people who have received a residence permit as asylum seekers, and that is at least reasonable, so we can do better. We have many examples from all over Finland, how people are integrated into society when they have got a job, and if, suddenly, there is a change of jobs and it is again under evaluation that they can do that work, it would be unreasonable. That is why we also support this idea. I will go back to the beginning and to the point that we have left this effort, as Mr Räsänen has already said here, and we will propose, at second reading, that Parliament return to the point where this legal protection has been severely weakened, and then most of these problems, which are now being combated by this law, would have been avoided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u39	Mr President! I did not finish that last speech just a little bit. I would also like to point out that I personally consider it very important that the processes are fair and that everyone gets a fair, timely and good treatment of the matter, so that the outcome is a good one. Then at that point, if there is a negative decision, you must leave the country. It's all in nobody's interest. I would add that I think it is very important that we in Finland also pay attention to the crime that we may have and that we should be aware and aware in advance of what can be happening, and that we also know who is staying in our country is part of this. I agree that attraction factors should not be created or maintained in Finland, and in that sense I feel it is good to talk about things openly and fairly, and the government should also know how many people we have in Finland who have a negative decision and who are not allowed to stay. It's not in anyone's interest. That is the position I think it is very good to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u40	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Mr Eerola, for the presentation of the report. In such a general way, it could be said that this government proposal is a step in the right direction. In fact, every step to tighten up asylum policy is a step in the right direction in Finland. The fact is that Finland currently has an asylum policy in the Nordic countries, as regards family reunification practices, for example. For example, this was seen in 2007, when more asylum seekers came to Finland than to Denmark and Norway, which are the same size as the population. This only tells us that we have attraction factors in Finland that are currently not found in other Nordic countries. In the opinion of the Finns Party, Finland should aim to make Finland the least attractive Nordic country in the eyes of asylum seekers, and this means that these unnecessary attraction factors are reduced to a minimum in Finland. This is the kind of question I would just like to ask the government: While the Finns of Finland were still sitting in the government, we worked together to draw up an 80-point asylum policy action programme. What is the state of play of this programme at the moment, how is this programme going to proceed, and is it still to be implemented during this regime?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u41	Mr President! When the debate on these re-applications takes place and the reason for the increase in the number of these re-applications, it is good to say, as the committee also states in this report, on the basis of the report which we have received, that these are not all related to the situation in 2015, when the number of applicants was much higher than they have been in the past, but we have seen developments in the past that the number of re-applications is increasing. It is quite understandable because anyone who has then received a negative decision has complained about it and if there is no intention to leave the country has then applied for security with a new application. So it is not just 2015 that can be attributed to this. Then, Mr President, perhaps a few more things have to do with the reason why these various legislative changes are being made: They are done so that we can really allocate the resources we have to help those in need, precisely to those who are in the greatest need. This means that, when we have certain criteria in the legislation which, by fulfilling international protection and obtaining a positive decision on residence permits, we will be targeted at them — and not those who will not meet these criteria. Then they must act as the law says, that is, when a negative, final decision is reached, then also the country will leave. It makes perfect sense to make these removals more effective, because otherwise we will have the situation that we have thousands of people here who do not have a positive residence permit but who are still here. Let me just ask you this: if anyone is against this, how will this be resolved? There are only two solutions: either we give everyone permission to withdraw the bottom from this legislation, or we actually take the measures to make these removals more effective, and yes, the agreements with third countries that should be concluded in order to get them moving. This is where the government has made reasonable slow progress over these years, so there is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u42	Irade the Talman! In other words, we are talking here about a proposal in which the government is trying to correct a problem which it itself has largely caused as a result of going off to implement a policy that is alien to reason in 16 C.E. Now, here, on the clumsy side of various patches, attempts are being made to correct the issue and to create further problems which should be recognised in a country that respects human rights and legal protection such as Finland. For traction factors: I am happy to live in an attractive country, and if anyone looks at it in another way, then of course you just have to accept that fact. What, then, is the attraction of immigration, will have to apply for scientific research that would, for example, recognise what Mr Immonen has raised. You don't think about things from that point of view. Of course, whether people with their own background live in the country is certainly a factor of attraction, and that is why, of course, there have come to Finland especially many Iraqis and Syrians have come to Sweden. These are real things, but you can't really fight them. What we should do instead, of course, when someone comes here, see how integration is done in the best possible way, and the government has in fact made a commendable improvement in its pace towards the end of the period. Fortunately, the preconceptions that were still in force at the beginning of the government have disappeared in these areas, and that is a good thing, because it is all about good integration. Nevertheless, I would also like to highlight the good things that undoubtedly exist here, including the reduction of access. It's been a long path for the government. It is a good thing that we have had the courage to do so now. And, indeed, the courage to improve the position of minors in a way that is in line with international human rights principles.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u43	Mr President! I would like to correct some of the incorrect arguments raised in the debate: We have a very extensive study of the attraction factors, and we know what the attraction factors of migration are. Social security is not an attractive factor, nor is it a good right to appeal or the rule of law itself, nor is it good health services. On the other hand, attraction factors are the structure of past migration, employment opportunities, either formal or informal labour markets, and the upturn. Which of these is the factor that we now want to influence? Paperless: Paperlessness in this country will not be removed or resolved in any way by this legislation, because undocumentedness is a separate phenomenon. Some of the representatives still seem to be living in the illusion that we would somehow have a paperless phenomenon that can be resolved in Finland. This is not the case and has not been the case throughout the 21st century. It would be time to wake up to this day, look around a little bit at how the situation in other countries has developed, and accept the fact that we have some paperless people and probably, unless there is a huge downturn in Finland, huge unemployment and a general decline in living standards, there will certainly not be paperlessness out of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u44	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 32/2018 vp. The committee proposes that the citizens' initiative be rejected. Let's open a general discussion. First speech, Mr Kiuru, chairman of the committee, presentation. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u45	Mr President! The citizens' initiative proposes that the active model of unemployment protection be abolished immediately. As of 1 January 2018, the Unemployment Security Act was amended here in Parliament to reduce unemployment benefit by 4.65% for 65 days if the unemployed person has not demonstrated sufficient activity during the 65 days before payment, i.e. around three months’ reference period. The active model applies to recipients of labour market support, basic daily allowance and earnings-related daily allowance. Mr President! When dealing with this citizens' initiative, the committee drew attention to the fact that, in the context of the discussion of the Government's proposal for an active model, it has already emerged that this proposal presents specific challenges due to the diversity of job provision in the regions and employment conditions for job seekers. Consequently, the government's proposal, but also the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, already drew attention to these issues in the past. In fact, in addition to their own activity, the number of jobs available in the different regions and the quality of the jobs they offer will have an impact on the fulfilment of the condition of activity. In this regard, Parliament once required, when dealing with the matter in the big House, that this proposal be adopted, that the effects of the reform should be closely monitored and, if necessary, extended to the way in which activity can be demonstrated. It was then suggested that if problems arise in the fact that the proposed means are not sufficient to prevent an active job seeker or a job seeker seeking access to the service from being reduced, action should be taken. In this regard, the Committee considers it important that this reform should be followed up by a follow-up study and that the impact of the reform should also be monitored. This was already the case when the active model was decided. Mr President! According to the information received by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the impact of the active model is monitored through statistical data and three different research projects. The particularly heavy statistical data came from the fact that this reduced unemployment benefit received the first active model during the period considered, i.e. practically 150,000 people in April to June 2018, i.e. in practice around 38 per cent of the recipients of labour market support and basic daily allowance and 32.8% of those receiving earnings-related daily allowance. The Committee therefore now draws attention to the fact that the active model seems to be affecting the recipients of unemployment benefits, particularly by age group and by region. The situation of older unemployed people has been particularly highlighted. One third of the already reduced earnings-related daily allowance recipients have reached the age of 60, and the geographically highest number of people receiving unemployment benefit is in Eastern Finland, Uusimaa and Käsivarren Lapland. The Committee notes that there is a need for development, particularly in the distribution of employment appropriations, as the funds should be allocated to the regions where they are most in need, particularly those who are hard to employ, those who are long-term unemployed and those who are older, in order to avoid a job seeker being put on this reduced benefit. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also draws attention to the fact that it is already clear that lowering the primary benefit as a result of the active model has increased the need for last resort income support and also new income support recipients. This is serious. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the strong criticism of the active model and the initiative under consideration show that there are shortcomings in the active model. The model has not been able to provide job seekers seeking employment and seeking access to the service with sufficient means of demonstrating activity. The committee also considers that some of the shortcomings identified have been addressed and that the active model has been developed since its entry into force in order to show greater activity. The Committee stresses that the impact of the active model on the situation and employment of the unemployed should be monitored and evaluated in the future. The committee also points out that the development of the active model is currently being prepared by the tripartite working group and results will be available by 28 February 2019. The committee's proposal for a decision is for Parliament to reject this citizens' initiative. Finally, there have been four objections to this initiative on the active model and to the committee's proposal for a decision that I have just read. Consequently, the matter and this proposal for a decision have been put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u46	Mr President! You can see from the composition of the hall that everyone knows what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u49	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say that the Social Democrats have never adopted an active government approach. It is unfair, subjugating and humiliating to the unemployed, and that is why we give our full support to the more than 140 000 citizens who have signed this citizens' initiative. Madam President! I would like to present the objection of the Social Democrats, which was raised in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health: As I have just said, the active model is unfair. Even if the unemployed person is actively seeking employment but is not employed, his unemployment benefit will be cut. Even if the unemployed seek employment-enhancing services and are not offered them, his unemployment benefit will be cut. That is why the Social Democrats do not accept this model. This is very unfair. The ultimate starting point is precisely injustice towards this whole. The model is also unfair in regional terms. The availability of jobs and employment-promoting services varies significantly from region to region. According to Kela's studies, the number of people receiving reduced unemployment benefits was highest geographically in Eastern Finland, Uusimaa and Käsivarren Lapland. The active model jeopardised the equality of citizens in the sense that the model did not treat unemployed people living in different regions equally, even if the unemployed were as active in their activities regardless of their area of residence or other circumstances. The model is also unfair by sector. The model also cuts most of the older unemployed. By August 2018, the active model had cut the benefit of the elderly unemployed in particular. For example, in the SAK sectors, only 13% of older people managed to meet the criterion of activity in the first round of the review. In order to achieve equality and better target services, it should be clarified why the active model has reduced unemployment protection for older people rather than younger people. The model also ignores people's ability to function. Unemployed job seekers have a large number of people who suffer from a disease or disability that reduces their ability to work and function. A large proportion of the long-term unemployed have lost their ability to work, especially as a result of mental health disorders. For this reason, some people who are unable to work would rather need improved treatment or rehabilitation rather than surgery. It is unfair to ignore people's ability to function and to require the same level of activity on the part of everyone, even if they need a study of their working and functional capacity and health restrictions and guidance for proper care, rehabilitation, work capacity analysis or other appropriate services. The model also increases bureaucracy and does not provide adequate services. The active model is also unduly burdensome for the implementation of unemployment security when assessing the impact of the model on employment. The unnecessary control and sanctions of the unemployed' activity should be reduced and the contribution to employment-friendly services and positive incentives for the unemployed should be stepped up. The key flaw in the active model is that even active self-seeking is not considered to be an activity that in itself can avoid falling unemployment security. The model also adds to the difficulties in earning a living. Reductions in small incomes are significant in the daily lives of the unemployed person. The unemployment benefits paid by Kela, such as basic daily allowance and labour market support, are on average EUR 696 gross per month without child increases. Failure to fulfil the condition of activity will cut income by EUR 32.40 per month. Similarly, in the SAK sectors, for example, the average earnings-related daily allowance is EUR 1236 per month, of which the cut is EUR 57 50 cents. All of these are of great importance to the livelihood of the family and individual. This has also led to an increase in the number of income support applicants and beneficiaries. This has also made the situation of the unemployed even more difficult, as it can be said in general that income support reduces people's chances of finding employment. The Social Democrats believe that the cutter should be abandoned and that services should be developed. We believe that the unfair cutter of the active model must be abandoned and that active employment services must be developed on a customer-oriented basis. It is important to find out what kind of employment support services are needed by different target groups. It is possible to assess the effectiveness of services, for example, by establishing indicators to assess how employment support services have contributed to working and functional capacity and the transition to the labour market. At the same time, it is possible to study the content of services supporting work and functional ability in more detail. The service needs of the various unemployed must be taken into account. The need for social work and health care, psychological services, employment counselling, support for education and career planning and services related to the application of benefits must be met and the provision of services must be made. In the same way, the necessary professional skills, resources and organisation for the services should be identified. Support and advisory services must be brought closer to people and comprehensive and integrated support and counselling services must be made, especially for people who are difficult to employ. Mr President! On the basis of the above, we propose that the citizens' initiative be adopted and that the active model be abolished. For this reason, I propose that a proposal in accordance with objection 1 be taken as the basis for this discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u50	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At least the gym doesn't show activity. It's pretty empty. Of course, representatives will also have a lot of other expenses, but perhaps they will hear this debate in their offices, for example. It is extremely valuable that we are here and we are going through the citizens' initiative, which is the most powerful weapon for the people to make their voices heard here in Parliament. 140944 citizens could not have been wrong in signing this initiative and bringing their vote here to Parliament. Humiliating, disparaging, and mean have been the words I have been told about the active model. Unemployment is not a choice. Unemployment is necessary for a very large number of people, and it can take up to years. We are not talking about low-skilled people, but also highly educated people with very long, even years of unemployment. Madam President! The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the abolition of the active model proposed by the citizens' initiative. Here I present the protest number 2 of the Finnish Parliament Group. Parliament called for a change in the active model when it agreed that the impact of the reform should be closely monitored. According to the information we have received, experts have considered that the active model has caused many problems for those in its sphere and has placed people in an unequal position across Finland. The number of people receiving lower unemployment benefits was highest geographically in Eastern Finland, Uusimaa and Lapland in Käsivarren. The regional distribution of unemployed job seekers and the number of unemployed people who are hard-to-work have been completely ignored and, as a result, the inequality of people has increased. Finland is a large country, the situations are different, and the employment situation and jobs are unequally divided. The sufferers in particular have been those who are hard-to-work, long-term unemployed and older job seekers. By August 2018, one third of the recipients of the reduced earnings-related daily allowance had turned 60. According to THL’s expert opinion, the amount of basic income support has increased since the activation of the active model, and THL estimates that between 4000 and 5000 people will be added to this support each year. The Finns believe that there are serious shortcomings in the active model. According to expert advice, unemployed jobseekers also have those who suffer from a disability or disability-lowering illness. These persons are not suitable for an active model; they need an analysis of work and functional capacity and health restrictions and guidance for appropriate care, rehabilitation, work capacity analysis or other appropriate services. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health stated in its report that the strong criticism of the active model and the initiative before us show that there are shortcomings in the active model. In all situations, the model has not provided enough means for a jobseeker seeking employment and seeking access to the service to demonstrate activity in order to prevent access to reduced benefits. True Finns believe that unemployed job seekers should be encouraged to seek employment, but this must not be done by humiliating and cutting benefits, especially if society does not have equal opportunities for all to succeed in their efforts to find employment. On the basis of this above, I propose that the citizens' initiative be adopted and the active model thus repealed. I would suggest that the proposals under protest 2 be taken as the basis for this discussion. We have a motion of rejection, and we propose that from 1 to 4. the draft law will be adopted in accordance with our objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u51	Madam President! The Left Alliance has also protested, and all these protests, after all, express the same criticism and make the same suggestion that the citizens' initiative be adopted and the active model be abolished. We can't vote on them together, can we? That remains for the President to decide. Mr President! When the Act on Active Models was discussed here, the Left Alliance said that we fear that this will become a mass cutter. At the time, we were accused of irresponsible intimidation. Now we look at the figures — what has happened? Latest figures: 158,000 people have been targeted by the cutter. In comparison with the first period of the period considered and the second period considered, only 10 % of the cutters in the first period of the period considered were able to meet the requirements of the active model during the following period. In the light of the numbers, this is a mass cutter. These conditions of activity are poorly justified and arbitrary. They treat people unequally depending on where they live and what a real opportunity a person has to work. This core is absurd. No matter how many job applications you send, but you do not get a job, and no matter how many TE Centre courses you apply for, but you will not be able to attend those courses, you will be considered inactive and your unemployment benefit will be cut. Isn't that activity to try? Now we are punishing the unemployed for not finding that job. And there are different numbers of jobs available in different regions. There are different kinds of them and they are different types. In addition, different TE Centres have different resources. Others are able to offer those courses to everyone; in others you will not be able to attend any course, even if you would like. In addition, this treats people unequally according to the potential for employment. For those who are long-term unemployed and who are already the hardest to find employment, this is the hardest hit. Those with reduced working capacity who are actually unable to work due to their illness will be punished for their own illness through this active model cutter. That is an absurd example — I would like to ask Minister Lindström: are you aware that not even participation in low-threshold work activities is considered an activity? Low-threshold work is therefore as low-threshold service as possible for those who have been outside of all services, possibly outside society. And now that they take the first step — they cannot go straight to work or directly to study, but they take the first step back to being a full member of society, towards work or towards study — by participating in low-threshold work, the TE Centres have come to decisions that the low-threshold work activities are not considered to be sufficient activity. What can be greater activity than the fact that one who has been completely outside wants to participate and join through low-threshold work activities? This mass cutter is unfair and cruel and its main problem exacerbates one of the fundamental problems of our social security, which means that more and more people have to rely on income support for a long time. That is already a problem for us, and that will increase it even further. Income support is intended as a last resort protection for people. The longer it lasts, the more it will pass and the more it will damage the path back to the labour market. This will increase the number of these people. That is why the active model must be abolished and this citizens' initiative must be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u52	Madam President! First of all, hats for ministers who are brave enough to at least listen to this criticism and feedback that this model will become. So we're having a discussion about the active model. It may be worth recalling here that the model requires the unemployed to work at least 18 hours during the 65-day period, to earn an entrepreneurial income of EUR 241 or to participate in employment services for five days. If this condition of activity is not met, the unemployment benefit will be reduced by 4.65%. In this previous speech, all the basic problems relating to this model, despite the fact that the unemployed themselves are doing their best, were quite well listed. A colleague very appropriately described the problem of the model as being a condition for every unemployed person to swim five kilometres a day, regardless of whether there is a swimming pool or a swimming pool in the village itself, but five kilometres should be used to swim in order not to be punished. It is worth remembering when we are now discussing the active model and its inhumanity, that it is only one part of the measures targeted at the unemployed during this period: the maximum duration of unemployment benefit has been reduced by 100 days. The level of unemployment security has been reduced and the basic part of adult education has also been reduced. Recruitment of the long-term unemployed into a fixed-term employment relationship has been facilitated and can now be done for no reason whatsoever. The probationary period has been extended to six months, and the readmission obligation has also been reduced from nine months to no more than four months, which is therefore less than the average in the Western European countries. In other words, when you read these actions, the active model becomes more original. Unfortunately, this model has happened exactly as we anticipated in advance. It is really unfair, it affects different regions and people of different ages. If the model has now cut subsidies from some 150,000 people, it is unfortunate to note that it has targeted the unemployed as a special cutter, especially in Eastern Finland, Uusimaa and Lapland. I would now like to remind you from Eastern Finland, from Kerimäki in Savonlinna, that other government measures, such as the freezing of the National Pensions Index, the weakening of pension provision, the increases in health contributions' responsibilities and so on, have also been directed at the same people and regions in large part, i.e. the effects have multiplied in that respect. It is great that the terms of the activity now include secondary studies and short-term studies lasting up to six months, but they are not in themselves enough to correct this unfair model. We Greens support this citizens' initiative and strongly support the withdrawal of the active model. We also have our own objections, but since this is a common issue, we can also be involved in the rejections put forward by the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u55	Madam President! Today we are talking about a very important citizens' initiative, and I would like to thank all the people who have taken this important initiative. The fact that almost 150,000 names were named for this is certainly a good illustration of the fact that such a so - called active model is a strong violation of people’s sense of justice. A person cannot understand that, despite activity, a person who is not employed is rewarded by the government, as it were, by taking away unemployment benefit and cuttings. This goes against the sense of justice, and that is what this is all about. All in all, it was a great disappointment that this initiative now ends up being rejected. I understand from the introduction that it has been admitted in committee that there are problems and a lot to be corrected, but the whole of this proposal should definitely be put in a rubbish bin. This is a cutting model, this is a cruel cutting model, this is a cutting model that violates the public's sense of justice, and, as has been said here, all the threats that have already been addressed in advance in this Chamber have been realised. This doesn't bring jobs. This increases income support expenditure and simply humiliates people. So, as I said, it was a big disappointment that now the government parties do not want to cancel this and put the whole model in the trash. At first, I thought that there might not be very many representatives of the government parties here. At first, the number of copies was zero, but I pay tribute to the two who have now arrived here. But perhaps that emptiness of the box over there, President, proves that it may be possible for many there to have a bad conscience when such legislation is adopted. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to ask who really wants this or why this is a task for the people. I remember wondering about this earlier when this active model came, and then I asked the ministers why this model had to be done, who wants it. I remember, Minister Lindström, that you replied to me in a way that this is just the kind of stone in a bun that now just needs to be swallowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u60	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The congressman's delegates! The SDP and the opposition as a whole opposed the introduction of this unequally active model of unemployment protection. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has already drawn attention to the fact that, in the context of the discussion of the Government's proposal for an active model, there are problems arising, among other things, from the diversity of employment provision in different regions, and the same comments were made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. About a year ago, a large number of unemployed people took part in a protest against the active model at Senate Square, and about a year ago more than 140,000 people signed a citizens’ initiative to reverse the active model. But what does Sipilä’s stubborn government do? You don't listen to people, you don't listen to MPs, you don't listen to organisations, you don't listen to nobody. Ministers, why don't you listen to the people? The availability of employment-friendly services and, for example, the opportunities for paid employment vary across the country. In Eastern Finland, people have suffered a great deal because there have not been enough jobs and employment services available. The active model is therefore unequally targeted by region. It is not people's fault that there are not enough jobs in Eastern Finland. The active model only blames the unemployed, even though job seekers cannot only influence their own ability to produce the results required by the active job search model so that the unemployed person can avoid falling unemployment benefit. In addition, the active model is particularly resistant to older unemployed people. One third of those who have suffered cuts in unemployment benefit are over 60 years of age. At the moment, the attitude of the government towards the unemployed is unreasonable. It is as if it has been forgotten that unemployment is not the fault of people, but the fault of failed economic policy in Finland. Unemployment is not solved at individual level, but at the level of the economic policy of society. It should be borne in mind that no country has achieved a reduction in growth and employment. It is the duty of the State to take care of employment. Everyone has the right to work, not just for any temporary work or zero contract work, but for a job that can support himself and his family. There are only very few such jobs available. Mr President! It is particularly bad that the active model does not focus on finding the strengths of the job seeker and thus finding new jobs and jobs. Nor does it place emphasis on the responsibility of society for employment or encourage companies to create more jobs. Instead, it will reduce unemployment security and make the situation of those who are already in a difficult economic situation even worse, thereby increasing poverty. The basic security of the unemployed living on labour market in Finland is below the level required by the European Union, the European Social Charter. You shouldn't have cut it from anyone. Deterioration of labour market support results in unemployed people turning to social services. In this way, the government has achieved an increase in the number of beneficiaries of basic income support. In 2018, the number of recipients of basic income support was 7.4 per cent of the population, i.e. approximately 408000 persons, which is almost 6,000 more than in 2017. Kela constantly violates the law when you are unable to make decisions on income support in the legal 7 weekdays, even though all employees are there and overtime is booming. As a result, the state will have to spend EUR 4.1 million in its supplementary budget this spring in order to hire more income support handlers. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, the active model is likely to lead to people falling into payment difficulties and enforcement situations. The active model has exacerbated Finland’s problem of mass exit and payment failure because it cuts unemployment security, which means that people can no longer cope with their daily expenses, such as hospital fees. Last year alone, social welfare and health care customer fees went to over 386000 enforcements. Growth has been 21 per cent during the year. It is morally wrong that hundreds of thousands of unemployed people cannot afford to go to the doctor, buy medicines and food, while at the same time 10 per cent of Finns are so rich that they own as much as the remaining 90 per cent of the total, and last year, in the smallest group of the wealthiest, income was raised by thousands of euros. In Finland, the state finances have become in a negative state due to the excessive demands of the rich. The income and property of the rich have increased. This is the result of preferential tax reductions, in particular for those on good income. The Sipilä board is loose for the well-paid and tight for the low-income. The verse of Matthew’s gospel can be compared with the policy of the Sipilä government: “Anyone who is given,and who is not, will also be taken away from this. “ The Matthew effect means the accumulation of benefits for those who already have them. The rich have been given money, the poor have been taken. The government has cut off the unemployed when it has not dared to increase the taxation of large incomes and assets so that Finland can take care of its citizens. Ministers, why are you defending such a world of values?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u61	Ministers have asked for a reply. I will now give them both a two-minute reply and then proceed. — Minister Mattila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u62	Madam President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee for presenting the report and to the committee for drawing up the report. This is therefore a citizens' initiative calling for the government's proposal to amend the Unemployment Security Act and certain other laws to be repealed. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has also given its own opinion to the Committee on this subject, on which I would like to say the following: Parliament's statement on the amendment of the Unemployment Security Act requires that the effects of the amendment should be closely monitored and, if necessary, extended the means by which the condition of activity can be met. And thus the effects have been monitored and these activity possibilities, the demonstration of activity, have been extended. The first stage has been followed up by statistical data on the payment of unemployment benefits, which provides information on the age, gender and region of beneficiaries receiving reduced aid, among other things, and this is reflected in the report. In addition to the above information, information is available on, inter alia, the way in which they have fulfilled the conditions. This statistical data is also supplemented by three studies, as has been stated in this report. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy are in the process of tripartite preparation for ways of demonstrating the activity required by the active model within the deadline of 28 February, i.e. this year. In addition, the last budget debate has extended the possibilities for the unemployed to meet the requirements of the active model, and the government has adopted a regulation on this issue. The amendments will enter into force on 1 April 2019. And, as has been said here, from the beginning of this year, self-sustaining studies also build up activity. In this context, the importance of the service system has also been highlighted, which I also sign on the basis of the studies and experiments carried out by the government. The studies made it very clear in the basic income test that it is important that the person, the unemployed, has access to the right rehabilitation system. Then I also consider Lex Lindström's second or Oivo-Kärärttä research, which also examined the hard core of unemployment, the long-term unemployed, to be justified, and the fact that timely rehabilitation and timely services are very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u63	Let us take Minister Lindström and then the debate when it is necessary. — Minister Lindström, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u64	Madam President! I will go straight to the speeches that have been made here: I fully agree that regional differences are a problem here. I fully agree that there is injustice here. I agree with all of this, but the philosophical question is: what to replace? I am perplexed by the fact that, on the other hand, it is said that this cutter must be abandoned. Okay, that's your business. But then they say we knock this whole model down. What about the farm? Is that philosophy right, that if you don't do something you have to do, it will be punished, and if you do, it will be rewarded. For myself, it is quite clear that this is how it should be. I have never denied that there are problems with this model — which is why this model is in the triad at the very best. We have taken all the measures we have been able to take through the regulations, and everyone in this house understands it — at least you would understand — that when you go through the legislation to change something, it is a much longer process. We are already drawing conclusions here, which are probably in part true. There's information coming from Kela, and I'm not denying it. But at the same time we have a study going on — VATT is going to find out in a very diverse way what the impact of this active model really is — and the interim report comes in April, that is, very soon, and the final report in October, and after that result comes, we will know this overall effect. I do not deny that this has negative effects, but the experience I have had when I have been around the Employment and Economic Development Offices in this country has also had the effect that this was originally aimed at. It was also to accept short-term employment relationships, to encourage people to do this too, as an idea that when you take on short-term employment, hopefully you can get a foot in the door and then get a good grip on working life. It was the starting point on which this was built. On that basis, this model has been made. There were many other models on display, this was the end, and it is not perfect, and it needs to be repaired. Among other things, the expansion of these activities, which are an active model of activity, must continue. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u65	Let's open the debat. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u66	Mr President! This philosophy in this motion and in the law is precisely the problem. In other words, the State is not obliged to offer these active measures, but the unemployed have an obligation to either find temporary work or to succeed in getting business activity or to take active action — which are limited. The Minister for Social Affairs and Health referred here to the study carried out by Oivo and the Collector and, in fact, I think that is one of the reasons why this model should be abolished. They have been going through the long-term unemployed and their problems in employment very actively and very thoroughly, and that report shows that one third of the long-term unemployed — one third — are not able to work. They then say that some of these people could be employed in the labour market if working life were different, if they were given rehabilitation and if they were given care. But what does this active model do?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u67	Mr President! Many things have been raised here. It has been argued here many times that the failure of the active model is somehow demonstrated by the fact that not all unemployed people have fulfilled the criterion of activity, but it is based on a very strange logic. One might ask what would then be the end result of which the opposition would regard the active model as a success. If all the unemployed had succeeded in fulfilling the criterion of activity, then it would hardly have any lessening effect on unemployment, and it would be easy to meet the condition of activity in the same way as turning the light on from the light switch. On the other hand, if unemployment benefit had been cut from everyone, then this criterion of activity would probably have been wrong. The fact that some have filled it and some have not shown that it has now gone about right. And that is what the unemployment-reducing effect of the active model is based on, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u68	Mr President! Yes, I must say that I do not understand this speech, which I have just heard. I can tell you what the way in which this would have affected unemployment is. It would also have been a way of building a mechanism for where people can go, what work they can do and what kind of training they can go to in the field of labour market policy. These trainings are not available in different parts of Finland. One practical example of Vaasa: Offered a friend a job a hundred kilometres away — nothing. In public, this trip takes 4 hours 55 minutes. Salary EUR 1280 per month minus taxes. Travel costs EUR 1072 per month, which could, of course, have been compensated by DEM 480. And when a person could not accept such work, what happened: 90 days of quarantine.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u69	Mr President! It is clear that we must activate the unemployed, but the way out cannot be to throw an illiterate person into the lake and say that he is swimming. It can't work like this. But I would like to ask you a very topical question. Many young people are currently taking a coaching course: seeking employment and trying to get into study, career and life forward. Now that secondary studies and short-term studies lasting up to six months are calculated to fill the active model, Minister Lindström: can these young people now plead that they are completing an active model of education when they are in the training course, or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u70	Madam President! Firstly, attention to the debate that has taken place in public over the years. It has even been suggested that the fact that an active unemployed person must apply for employment as a condition of unemployment benefit would be something new at all. Of course, that's not new. [on behalf of the Socialist Group: Of course not!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u71	I'm asking you to stay in this minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u72	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! We have jointly stated here that this model does not treat the unemployed equally. I would now have asked if it would not be more effective to activate the unemployed rather than the stick with a carrot that genuinely encourages work? Should not every unemployed person be tailor-made to a suitable way forward? Should we not now abandon this active model and instead reform it into an encouraging whole of social and unemployment security?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u73	Mr President! Minister Mattila, you are here to defend the active model and you are calling for the active model to be monitored, corrected and clarified. However, the amendments to the criterion of activity do not solve the key problem of the active model, which the Constitutional Committee has already expressed its opinion on in its own opinion. In the committee's view, the draft law should have ensured that the person who does what is reasonably required of him is not subject to a reduction in the benefit. This condition is still not fulfilled when individual consideration continues to be lacking. If, for some reason, a person does not have access to work, education or services or, for example, because of his or her health, he or she does not even have the opportunity to participate, the cutter will still bite. The adoption of the citizens' initiative and the dismantling of the active model is the only solution proposed to prevent such disproportionate situations. Minister, we need a carrot, not a stick.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u74	Madam President! People are different. Is active and is passive and in between. Here in Parliament, too, this seems to be coming about quite well. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u75	Mr President! I must say to Mr Kankaanie that you are well aware that the presence of this Chamber does not say anything about activity or passivity, because there may be many factors behind it, just as in this active model. Mr Lindström, did I understand correctly that you believe that the increase in unemployment is due to the active model? I personally believe that this is not the case. I do not think it is a question of rewarding or punishing, but of punishing for no personal reason, as has already been well mentioned here. It creates a feeling of injustice. There is a feeling of humiliation and a reduction in human dignity, and this is a message that is demeaning work and functional capacity. What can we expect from such a person’s zeal to seek work after being so humiliated at state level? In addition, it has now been found that you are applying for a disability pension in a queue. Is this true?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u76	Mr President! I very much hope that the active model will not be watered down in such a way that any easily accessible training will easily make it possible to meet the condition of activity. Its unemployment-reducing effect will then be eliminated. The Swedish Labour Force Institute (IFAU) has thoroughly studied the effectiveness and effectiveness of various labour market training courses, and a very strong research result is that the most useless and least effective labour market training is one that is sought for the sole purpose of fulfilling a condition relating to access to unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u77	Mr President! The Socialist Group supports this citizens' initiative and rejection of the active model. What we just heard from Mr Vartiais is a very harsh line.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u82	Mr President! I myself have been in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drafting that opinion in 2017, and I remember clearly that we gave instructions that this should ensure that if a person does everything he will not face this. This should obviously have been put in place when these were not read in the legislative procedure. I am now listening to Mr Vartia, and now the day has come when nothing is enough. So he thinks that if a person who is excluded and is at home activates himself and goes somewhere, it is not enough — you have to get a good job right away, or else the cutters, but the game. This is such a cold ride, I'm so shocked. The Minister, in fact, admitted that there are problems of inequality. And Filatov brought out of me well this study, Oivo and whether Collector, there was one third of non-working ability. Do you think it's a straight line to this chapter of the StV? That is almost the same as for those who are being cut off. So we wouldn't be cutting now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u83	Mr President! In his speech, Minister Lindström said that he considered this to be an unfair and negative law, but he did not support its repeal. Then you talked about philosophy. Well, I'm also wondering about this philosophy. So the government believes that the poor are motivated by cutting out the small one, but the rich are motivated by giving him more money, as you have done in the form of tax cuts. What kind of human image do you have? Most people want to be active and want to pursue a meaningful life for themselves. The problem with the active model is precisely that not everyone has the opportunity to fulfil these conditions, even if they do everything they can. I do not believe that I am the only one who has received emails from a number of people about wanting to take a course at the TE Centre and how glad I am that it is now possible, but can't get there, no matter how much he wants to or how hard he tries. This is the problem of unfairness. Minister Lindström, low-threshold work. Are you aware that it is not considered to be sufficient activity,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u84	The reply, Mr Elo, followed by a one-minute speech by Minister Mattila.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u85	Mr President! The Social Democrats present their views here, which may differ, but I am not terribly confident about your economic competence or your prognosis. 3. On May 1, 2017, your chairman said that the government will not even reach the middle of its employment target of 110000 — and now has come closer to 140,000 employees during this period. You say that the active model would not have increased employment. Yes, my answer to that is which research institute Etla's answer is that all government activities, including the active model, have increased employment. According to them, at least half of the employment development is thanks to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u88	Now, Minister Mattila, on site for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u89	Mr President! Mr Pekonen, yes: Clear, follow or correct, or rather in the order of follow-up, investigation and correction. This must be the way it is now. Pension experts have indeed assessed the number of applications for occupational pensions, and I have also asked for information on this. Keva and Varma have considered, among other things, that, first of all, the increase in employment may have contributed to the loss of working capacity and skills in the course of unemployment, and this will be realised when you return to work. On the other hand, it cannot be said either that there would be a clear rise by age group in one group or not. But I'm sure I'll find out more about this. Then again, Mr Filatov, when you raised the Oivo-Kärärt study and its results, I must ask why this study has not been carried out before and this is the first time that it has been carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u92	Madam President! Perhaps these studies and monitoring have started to take place after you have passed the law under which you are operating. Minister Lindström knows very well that in your constituency, too, there are TE Offices where it has been possible for people who fulfil active activities to take a course ‘as a hard-core entrepreneur’ or ‘as an alternative’. Minister Lindström, I promised Imatra to meet you this weekend, Stora. Is this what you wanted with your model? I don't really remember the end of those greetings. Minister Mattila, the reports won't help if they don't lead to action. There are now three different sections with clear explanations and almost 150,000 signatures in the citizens' initiative,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u93	Mr President! The Minister for Labour is asking what is the philosophy of how the unemployed should be treated: by encouragement or by punishment. It is clear, at least, that the philosophy of the government is that even people who, despite their efforts, are unable to meet these conditions must be punished and punished. As we know, regional disparities are large, sectoral differences are large, this discriminates specifically against older unemployed people and, no matter what you do, there is necessarily no such education available. The Minister stated that this was intended to address the reception of short sections, that it would always be worthwhile. Well, this is our common goal that it is always worthwhile to accept work. But it must be done so that we reform social security so that the traps of incentives are eliminated and there will also be no interruptions and delays in the people's economy because of the temporary increase in income, and that is why we need to move towards basic income.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u94	Reply, Mr Vartiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u95	Mr President! Representative Kymäläinen said hello to an unemployed person who had voluntarily remained in the unemployment pension pipeline and was now the target of active measures. Mr Kymäläinen asked whether this was now what the government wanted, that the person who voluntarily entered the unemployment pension pipeline was subject to an active obligation. From the point of view of good social policy, I would like to see this as a very good aim for less to be left voluntarily in the unemployment pension pipeline and longer working. The unemployment pension pipeline has been a bridge to retirement, which has been used in companies just like this, in agreement between the employer and the employee. In other words, it actually becomes unemployed voluntarily, and with the active model we have the opportunity to reduce this unemployment-infringing current that is undermining Finland's national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u96	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen, I do not know how to answer this. I am sure that Minister Lindström knows very well when he himself has worked at the paper mill, that in large factories this has been quite normal practice for young people to be freed up. Age distribution has been a problem in factories. Is it really the case that these people who remain in the pension line have to take part in the course ‘than incoherent work’ rather than as an entrepreneur’ because of this active model? I really don't think so. Now, with this model, one third of the people who depend on unemployment benefits have been excluded from these benefits, who have been cut into cuttings. This is, as it were, a austerity measure without caring about these people to become genuinely active.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u97	I would like to give the floor to Minister Lindström, and before that I would like to say this: when you ask for debatable speeches and if there are five or ten speeches from the same group, they are probably of the same content and do not involve a debate between these representatives, and that is why, if there are statements from all sides of the opposition-government border and there are clear confrontations, I will try to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u98	Mr President! I will first respond to this misunderstanding by Mr Salosen: I did not mean, of course, that, thanks to the active model, the employment rate in Finland is 72.5, but, as Mr Vartiainen has well opened up, it is one measure that has undoubtedly contributed to that employment rate. So I do not mean that it has explained the rise in employment rates. Then we will come back to this debate when there is already a suspicion that the human image has been signed here. I can assure you, Mr Modig, that my human image will stand up to the scrutiny. I'm sure you will. I don't think about the unemployed, that they're something extra or that they should be kicked. I've been telling you all along that there are problems with this law. It is in the triangular preparation because it is being repaired. It has been corrected along the way, more of these activity measures have been introduced, but this alone is not enough. And from the beginning I have said, as soon as I heard this model, that this is the problem, the stone in the bun, that if a person does everything he can and still becomes a cutter. We need to fix this. But now we are in the philosophical question: you say that this must be brought down, I say that this must be corrected. There's some good elements here. I would argue that only when VATT publishes this study can we have a debate on the whole model and all its effects. I've been crippled, as I said, by the TE Offices in this country. When the officials of the TE Office tell me that people who have not been looking for work for years have gone on the move, is that not a good thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u101	Mr President! Mr Lindström, when you spoke about your own philosophy, I would also like to share the view that it is also a question of what kind of human concept we have. It is about people, it is not about percentages, it is not about general things, it is about every person concerned. It has to be said that people who have now become part of this active model have felt that they are second-degree citizens, and they have experienced this precisely because they feel that neither people nor society accept them as such, even though they try to do everything they can. This is the philosophy which is now at odds with the views of the citizens and the views of the Minister. Not only the unemployed, but also the working people have experienced injustice and absurdity in this bill, and neither has their sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u102	Mr President! I believe that this whole legislative project was merely a savings law and a cutting law. At that point you could have left off the activity and just said that now we want to save and cut, and that is good. At the same time, the long-term unemployed have not been provided with services to promote their rehabilitation and return to work. Those people who really want to go back to work have not created those paths. In that sense, this is, could you say, sad to hear? This debate, which is now taking place, is whether we are or not — no matter what the novel or whatever. Minister Lindström, hand to heart.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u103	Mr President! Minister Lindström here presented philosophical questions. I would now like to put a basic philosophical counter-question to this, which I do not think you have answered. The question is: why do we need this model? Why do we need this model?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u106	Mr President! Minister Mattila, you mentioned that this model will be clarified, followed up and corrected. Yes, the survey showed that Eastern Finland, Uusimaa and Lapland are the ones with the highest geographically lower unemployment benefits. I myself am from New Zealand, and there have been a lot of contacts just about how to activate. Yes, you have to have a strong mind, an unemployed person, an elderly person as well as a young person, and you can only admire it to be able to stand on that cycle of squirrels. It was mentioned here that this training and that any easy training would not be the answer. I would like to ask you, Minister, about education policy and whether there may be some more long-term vocational training coming or increasing, so that perhaps those who think about new training for themselves, such as coders, might be able to get out of that unemployment. Or let us talk about the nursing home: it has even been said that nurses are being brought from the Philippines, but should education policy not address these problems in Finland? I think we need carrots more than that punishment and humiliation itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u107	Mr President! That is where Minister Lindström admitted that this active model discriminates between people on a regional basis when one sees how they can get a job. I myself think that all the work that is done in general improves people's working conditions, reduces marginalisation, creates security and increases learning for that work. I got to thinking that when you look at those employment appropriations, we have, as carryovers, become unused employment appropriations from previous years, and one of the reasons is that it is limited to the possibility for organisations to employ people. I would therefore like to ask whether it is not now time to dismantle this restriction on organisations as a whole, to be able to employ and offer this work and to give people active action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u108	And the reply, Mr Paatero. — Well, the Minister wants to answer that question, and when that is the case, I will grant him one minute from the seat, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Congressman Semi, a very important question. After all, we raised the roof of 3,000 people with 100 percent pay support to 4,000. And we now have a legislative debate on whether or not to abandon this roof altogether and to go through the criteria — for this I thank my predecessor, Mr Ihalainen, who has come to the ministry with this idea — and in this way we would try to define what the pay subsidy at all is intended to achieve. Two studies have been carried out on the pay subsidy. There will probably be changes in pay support during the next government term to make it even more effective than it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u110	Mr. Speaker! So it has now been said, and that is also why it is important for this citizens' initiative to address the fact that it has no impact on employment. No such evidence has been seen, but the government's own law already stated that income support expenditure is increasing. So the government line... This is not the only bill that states that the need for income support under the law is increasing, that is to say, people are being driven into last resort support, which is incomprehensible. The fact that we have different situations in different parts of Finland, and different people have quite unreasonable fates, is very clear here, because these places of employment do not exist. For my part, I followed a young person who applied for more than 100 jobs last autumn, and the cutter was always wiping out a 5% cut in unemployment security. He was employed: he went to Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u111	Mr President! It has still been said here that this would drive people to the income support hatch. Then why in January 2018 Kela applied for income support for 200,000 people and then received it in January of this year 14,000, or 6,000 less — less. As far as this model is concerned, there is some irony in listening here to the left-wing opposition that the father of this model is left-wing from Ralf Sund STTK. And yes, I agree with Sund that the employment rate in Finland needs to rise — well, it has been raised — and in addition, the supply of work needs to be increased, and the third on the list will be the activation of the unemployed. So says Ralf Sund. Anything you can do should be done. He also assures us that he personally adheres to the active model, even though snow has come into much of the house. Why? Because the good principle of a contractual society is that compromises are held, and this is a compromise because he himself says that this was the mildest model on the table. It's the mildest model I've ever seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u112	Mr President! Bring in the statement of the employees' central organisations in which they declare their support for this active model. Don't try to talk black and white. Mr President! Representative Elo raised the issue of dependency on income support. What is the basis for the active model’s increasing dependency on income support? Even the report by the government parties states that this is the case. That's what this is all about. Even your own party colleagues have said here that it is clear, and the explanatory statement of the law also states that this increases dependency on income support, and that income support, as Mr Vartiainen certainly knows, is the most difficult thing to get up. Mr President! The active model isn't working. It's unfair. When a person does everything he can, but does not get a job, he too will be cut. The philosophical question is when the economy is growing and employment is rising and the fourth year in a row is being cut off from the unemployed, and on top of this active model: Mr Government, is nothing enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u113	Mr President! In your first speech, Mr Lindström, you asked us what to replace if this were to be overturned. However, given the number of citizens who have signed it, the extent to which different organisations and parliamentarians and our committees have criticised this and called for this to be abolished, when you ask what to do with it, is it not necessary to build a decent employment-friendly model based on investing in public employment services? I'm gonna put a few things right here. In other words, for example, the employment budget will be increased and immediately directed to the third sector's wage subsidy and will remove the limit of 4000 person-years, full pay support will be ensured for the employment of disadvantaged people in the intermediate labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u114	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and the chairman of the committee, Mr Kiuru, and then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u115	President! In my opinion, Ministers, the situation is that the fears expressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about this active model have come true. [Left: Yes, yes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u116	Mr President, I have to go back to last week. We have our own rules of the game, and we are now trying to comply with them more or less. — Now Mr Kiuru, chairman of the committee, has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u117	Mr President! I would like to say that I had to join the Socialist Group in the committee in protesting precisely because of what the committee itself was actually talking about when it laid down this active model. So in my opinion, the active model must be rejected. The reasons are quite clear, given what the committee itself once said in its own report. The committee stated that the refusal of the benefit used as a sanction must be justified in relation to what activities have been available and what can be attributed to the unemployed person. In practice, therefore, the level of benefits must be linked to those conditions which are effectively available to the applicant. Now this is not possible precisely by not cutting the benefit when a person is unable to activate despite action, or in some other way. I would therefore like to say that this active model should be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u118	To the list of speakers. — Representative Salonen. — While he comes to the podium, I note that in the recent debate, which took a little over 40 minutes, according to the previous President and my accounting records, all Members who asked for a reply received one at least once, some received two, one received three. — Mr Salonen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u119	Mr President! First of all, I'm in favour of a representative. In accordance with protest 1, the motion made by the screamer. In that recent debate, I would have liked to ask what the Minister's assessment is based on the fact that the model has increased employment. The committee did not receive such a report, but, on the contrary, stated that it was not yet possible to assess the impact of this on employment, as it were. I would also like to correct the impact of the income support put forward by Mr Elo in the debate. Applying for income support has increased by just under 6,000 persons since the active model, not decreased. These corrections to the previous debate. But as far as this citizens' initiative is concerned, every unemployed person's life story is different, and that is why each of them deserves to be confronted, heard and helped from their own needs. More than 140,000 citizens have wanted Parliament to hear their ideas of an active model through this citizens' initiative. Ministers, does it not make a huge difference that the citizens have actually become active and thus want to make their voice heard in this House? For example, Minister Lindström pointed out that we simply want to reverse this. It is not a question of what the opposition wants. The citizens' initiative wants this overturned. It would certainly have been a hand-out if the active model had been corrected to the extent that, for example, the Minister considers that it requires correction, but that this gesture was not seen here either. The reduced unemployment benefit received around 150,000 people in the first active model during the period considered. About 40 per cent of Kela's recipients of unemployment benefits and one third of the recipients of earnings-related daily allowance received a reduced benefit. In addition, it appears that the active model has increased the application for disability pension because this protects them from the harvester of income. I don't suppose it's the intention that people have to speculate in the system to get reasonable? Those who have been the target of the active model report in the survey of the trade unions that they experienced the active model as a punishment, an unnecessary and time-consuming bureaucracy and a degrading and humiliating measure to human dignity. Respondents found it particularly problematic that, despite active job search, unemployment benefit is being cut. Which is exactly what we've already asked about. Mr President! Unemployment is seen as structural or cyclical, as an own cause or even as laziness. Especially in times of economic recession, when many people are in short supply of work and money, values and measures against the unemployed are getting tougher, even though unemployment is, to a large extent, due to a lack of jobs. The active model does not solve the main problem of unemployment, the shortage of jobs. However, this time it seems that the active model is also to be continued as the employment situation improves. The unemployed are treated as if every one of them were the abuser of our system. The active model is unfair regionally, by sector and by age group. The availability of jobs and employment services varies greatly from region to region, and the model has cut the benefits of older unemployed people in particular. According to the SAK report, only 13% of older people managed to meet the activity criterion during the first period of the period considered. Activating the unemployed, not punishing them, is important, because even short-term unemployment is likely to undermine a person's access to employment. However, the key is the means of activation. However, even in a good employment situation, prolonged unemployment is often due to illness, skills shortages, outdated qualifications or accumulated life-management problems. These may lead to a high threshold for seeking employment or for taking an employee into work. If we think that unemployment is self-inflicted or elected, we will end up looking for ways to resolve this issue in terms of penalties. Even an active model emerges from such philosophy. It would be fair to say frankly that the active model is a cut in unemployment security hidden in shiny wrappers. A positive name doesn't change that. It is not right that people’s ability to function is not taken into account individually, but that the same activity is required of everyone, even though at the same time it is seen that they need guidance on, for example, appropriate care, rehabilitation, ability to work or other appropriate services. The unemployed need to face up to the employment officer instead of being punished in order to overcome these obstacles to employment. The unfair cutter of the active model must be abandoned and employment services must be developed on a customer-oriented basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u120	Mr. Speaker! First of all, I would like to thank the people who initiated the citizens' initiative and the people who signed it. It is very important that this debate is being held right now in the run-up to the elections and that it is also being voted and measured, which is the support of the various groups for this active model which has been found to be a failure in Parliament. Mr President! I had a modest opportunity to be in government negotiations in 2011 and 2015. Both times the Government Programme included targets for improving employment. A target of 100,000 new jobs was recorded in 2011. The result was that during that last parliamentary term, 100,000 jobs were lost and unemployment got worse. This employment rate target of 72% was recorded in 2015 and has now been achieved. In fact, the measures taken to achieve this, in so far as they depend on domestic politics, were taken when the Finns of Peru were responsible for the affairs of the country. Since then, there has been, among other things, this activation model, the cutter, which has proved to be a bad and unfortunately ineffective employment management measure. But some 140,000 new jobs have been created during this parliamentary term, and that is a great achievement. And here we are. Of course, we all remember that at the time of 2015 the economy in the country was also completely out of control. We were in danger of falling on the credit rating from more than one ratingr to a junk loan level, and that would have been very dangerous. Now we're in a much better position. Much, of course, is due to international economic growth. Mr President! In the Government Programme 2015 page 15 has a heading Incentive traps preventing labour take-up will be dismantled and structural unemployment will be reduced. This title would probably have been acceptable to all opposition parties. It states: ‘The government is reforming its social andunemployment security system, which encourages the early reception of work,reducing periods of unemployment,reducing structuralunemployment and saving public resources. “ I'm sure everyone's gonna sign this, too. Then there is a sub-item: ‘On 15 October 2015,the government is preparing a dialogue with the social partners on the reform of unemployment security, These are the texts of the Government Programme, and nothing else can be found here. All I have to say is that what we committed ourselves to then in May 2015 did not include a single word of this kind of activation model, which was brought to Parliament by the government in autumn 2017. On 8 December 2017, Mr Arja Juvonen was a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and lodged an objection to the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on 2 December 2017 and presented her as a wreck. The reasons — I have just read them — are quite far from what is now here in the committee report, even in this whole committee report. So you can say briefly that this has failed. This report now states: ‘on the basis ofstatistical data, the active model is geared tounemployment benefit recipients by age group and region on an “Reducedunemployment benefit was geographicallyestimate in Eastern Finland, Uusimaa ‘The number of beneficiaries of basic income support ‘Priorityreductionfromactivemodel managementincreasestherequirementoffinal incomesupportandnewrecipients of incomesupport. “ Shared below:‘Integrity to income The committee considers that the ‘active model’ is Mr President! When the committee, the committee as a whole, states in its report that ‘leads to alonger period of unemployment’and ‘increases the threshold for employment’, once the government parties have written to this effect,it should absolutely be decided that this model should give up as soon as possible. The Finns of Peru have now objected to the fact that we are seeking to abolish this and make it a fair, fair, fair labour policy that treats all as equally as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u121	Mr President! The citizens' initiative makes it very visible that the citizens have understood what the government still does not seem to realise: the employment of people will not be promoted by punishing them, it will be promoted by supporting them. The government's active model has revealed that the city centre, the coalition and the blue people are alienated from the everyday lives of the unemployed. It does not recognize the fact that you may not get a job, no matter how much you apply for it. It does not take into account the fact that the possibility of a job varies from one region to another and the fact that the active model does not guarantee access to qualifying services, not even if the conditions have been eased. The problem with the active model is that fulfilling the conditions does not depend solely on the person himself. Getting a job is not in the job seeker’s own hands. Access to services varies from place to place. An active model doesn't help anyone to find a job. That is why it must be abandoned as required by the citizens' initiative. Mr President! As we have already heard in the debate today, the active model has just been implemented in the dreaded way. It's become an unemployment benefit cutter. It further reduces basic security for those who have already been too small. It has cut unemployment support from up to 150,000 people. It is unfairly punishing jobseekers who are approaching retirement age in particular. It is targeted differently according to its place of residence, especially in Eastern Finland, Uusimaa and Lappland in Käsvarren. It does not take into account those who are unable to work or those who are part-time in need of care and rehabilitation, nor does it take into account sanctions. The active model and other cuts in social security have pushed people into income support. It has also increased the transition to disability pension. This is the wrong direction. Income support increases the threshold for employment, and people's ability to work should be promoted instead of moving to disability pension. The level of basic Finnish security is too low without the active model. We have received many reproaches from the Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe. Finland, as one of the richest countries in the world, violates fundamental human rights. Basic security needs to be improved, not cut. Mr President! The Greens' direction with regard to employment policy is different from that of the government. The means to raise the employment rate in Finland to a level closer to the Nordic level to 75% are found elsewhere than in the active model. First, we must ensure that everyone has the necessary training and skills in working life. Everyone must be guaranteed at least upper secondary education, including for those of working age who do not have it. Everyone must have access to continuous learning throughout their lives, whether at work or outside the labour market. Secondly, support for employment must be provided, not squatting. Employment services must be tailored to the human life situation, not to the system. Everyone's employment must be supported from his/her own needs. Wage support must be developed to facilitate the employment of the long-term unemployed and those who are able to work part-time. Thirdly, we must make sure that there is always more work left in hand. We've got to unload the entry traps. Now short jobs easily confuse the household as a whole when they cause interruptions and delays in housing support, for example. The right of secondary entrepreneurs to unemployment benefit must be guaranteed. Now you may become an entrepreneur and lose your unemployment benefit. We need a social security system that eliminates the red tape traps that apply to all life situations and gives people the freedom to improve their own situation. We need a foundation. Everyone would be entitled to basic income regardless of the situation in life. It reduces red tape, it doesn't break because of job work or when life changes. It is easy to move between temporary work, entrepreneurship, study and family life. It must be accompanied by close services and guarantee personal assistance and a personalised service plan for everyone. It would also give employees more opportunities to do their job, i.e. to support people's employment. Basic income therefore deserves a wider experiment involving more groups of people so that we can test how it works. Mr President! Every unemployed person wants to work. It is up to society to help. This is best done by encouraging, not punishing. The Greens believe that the citizens' initiative should be adopted and that the active model should be abolished.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u122	Mr President! The worthy citizens' initiative now before us is re-establishing the debate on the government's employment policy, which has been mentioned a great deal in this Chamber. The so-called active model of unemployment security was voted on in autumn 2017, and the law entered into force at the beginning of last year. The effectiveness and fairness of the model were already questioned by experts and politicians. Professionals in the field of employment management also expressed concern that the active model would not reduce long-term unemployment but could at worst increase bureaucracy and the cost of income support. The model has now been in use for over a year. The last time we had a heated debate on the serious shortcomings of the model during Christmas, and the Minister for Labour, Lindström, admitted at that time, as he still openly admits, that there are many problems and that the results have not been as expected. The SDP claimed that the model should be repealed, but the government found that the remedies were sufficient. The amendments now tabled still do not address the core problems. This can already be seen now, and this will probably not be changed by future studies. The active model was designed to cut the employment security of Finns. It was carried through knowing that there was no structured concept of practical implementation, as little as its effects or costs. The active model was and remains a matter of principle for the government. It is based on the view that unemployment is seen as a fault or weakness rather than primarily a lack of jobs and labour market mismatches, a lack of skills or, for example, a loss of working capacity or a complete lack of ability to do so. It is also a broader social and employment policy issue. I think that everyone in Finland has the right to work that is able to support themselves. It is very difficult to understand why people deliberately want to build a class of working poor people in Finland, because that is what this now forcing them to do without helping them. The active model humiliates people who are genuinely in need of their own livelihood. It treats unemployed people unfairly geographically, as access to services and opportunities for employment in general vary from one country to another. It treats the unemployed unfairly, depending on the different occupational groups and sectors. It also treats unemployed people unfairly in relation to age. The model also puts unemployed job seekers in an unequal position in relation to their ability to work. Not only have the activity criteria been vague and difficult to interpret, but they have not properly taken into account the various services that rehabilitate their needs or improve their ability to work. It is unreasonable to call for participation in services and measures that are not available. In the field of employment care, we have seen in concrete terms what kind of chaos the active model has led to. Above all, it has increased bureaucracy and the need for unemployed people to make a living and to make people even more sick. That is what humiliation and feelings of hopelessness do in us. I worked for years before being a Member of the European Parliament specifically in the field of employment management. The Government's tempting employment policy and its active models have made this work much more difficult. Public authorities should, by their actions and legislation, help employment, not make it more difficult. Increasing the employment rate requires an active employment policy rather than a passive reduction in unemployment security from the state. Its starting point, rather than punishing, is to provide incentives and take account of the needs of the unemployed. Employment services must form a whole where different forms of support and services are combined in such a way that it is possible to build its own path to the labour market. It is about guidance, identifying your own skills, training, rehabilitation, career planning in general in its modern form. As a Member of Parliament who is aware of the field of employment care and who is responsible for a fair policy, I am definitely in favour of abolishing the active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u123	Mr President! More than 140,000 Finns have signed a citizens' initiative calling for the abolition of the active model, and we must stop there. We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that such a large number of Finns feel that injustice is being sown in this way as it is now — yet it is the second-largest citizen's initiative that has ever been signed. The survey also shows that the majority of citizens want to reverse the active model. I think it is even more important that, according to these studies — Mr Vartia, there is no scientific research, but the opinion of the public is in line with that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u126	Mr President! Activity is a positive word, and active labour market policy is part of Nordic thinking, where, in the event of unemployment, the state or municipality helps not only financially, but also through services such as employment, education, support work or rehabilitation, if there are problems in working capacity. This active model of unemployment security is actually a passive model of the state. It leaves the state with a passive role. The state does not have to offer a job, not even active measures. Philosophy emphasises that the state has no responsibility to help the unemployed and that unemployment is a man's own fault. If the unemployed person refuses the job offered, I do not think it is unreasonable to cut his unemployment benefit. But I think it is unreasonable that unemployment benefit should be cut if people do not find work. That is the whole question of safety: if you do not have a job, you will receive unemployment benefit. But here we are assuming that if you do not find work, unemployment benefit will be cut. The citizens' initiative, which calls for the withdrawal of the active model of unemployment security, came from people's experience of injustice. And now that this committee's report does not in fact even present the remedies that have been repeated in this Chamber, both at the mouth of the government and the opposition, and which the ministers have also acknowledged that the law would require, I think it is underestimating the initiative. It would have been desirable to have at least set out the most painful repair needs that this law undoubtedly has. Some of the representatives of the government parties have said that the necessary corrections have already been made. Training has been slightly expanded, but no other corrections have been made. If we are thinking, for example, of the Collector's and Oivo's report, we have done the same in the past and the results have actually been very similar. At present, some 30,000 of the unemployed are estimated to be incapacitated. In fact, the number of people who are unable to work, their relative share, varies slightly depending on whether we are in a boom or in a downturn. If there is a good employment situation, then there will be more of these people in relation to the long-term unemployed, if there is a bad situation again, then less, because people who are well able to work will also end up in long-term unemployment. If we have 30,000 people who are not able to work, it is simply not reasonable to demand that they find jobs or have to work so that their unemployment benefits are not cut. It is reasonable that active measures should be allocated, but not all of them have been able to receive them. And it is disproportionate that when these 30,000 people need health rehabilitation, that health rehabilitation, Kela rehabilitation, is not an adequate demonstration of activity. That is the first thing that this law should have corrected. If a person is ill, he must take health measures and not be assigned labour policy measures that are completely wrong. If, for example, an unemployed person with substance abuse problems goes to substance abuse rehabilitation instead of going into rehabilitation activities where there is not always a need for substance abuse skills, he loses his unemployment benefit, and this cannot be the case. Man should be addressed to the very measure that is right for him. In Finland, it is customary to say that the one tried is not put on, but this law does and very badly. In this debate, the Minister, quite rightly speaking, also challenged what should be done, what would be the alternative. The alternative is service. In fact, studies show that neither stick nor carrot actually works very well. If we look at the basic income test, for example, which the government has had, it has all the incentives to find employment, because every euro gets for itself, but the employment results have hardly come, even if every euro gets for itself. But rather, some welfare results have come. In other words, when you're not harassed, you'll feel better. And, on the other hand, if we look at this so-called active model, its cutter has not helped people in a difficult position to find employment because they do not necessarily have the ability to find work or have the ability to work, and there are no active measures suitable for them either. And if there were, they may not be offered and they will not be available. Instead, it would be reasonable to first assess a person’s ability to work, and if the ability to work is correct, then the obligation to seek a job under certain conditions and the obligation to take up a job is in order, even a short job. Of course, the pre-condition must be that children, for example, receive early education. This is what the restriction of the government's subjective day care right has hit hard, and many unemployed people who would get those jobs will not get their children into full-time day care even if they need to, and will therefore have to refuse certain jobs. If you think of this active model, it has employed the most employees of Kela. In fact, even the government's proposal has already pointed out the considerable costs of running this bureaucracy, and since then money has been added to the measures of officials who only deal with papers and this unemployment benefit. This money should have been allocated to the service and personal assistance. In the case of those who are able to work or who are unable to work, a personal service should be provided to identify and address obstacles to access to work. Some are sufficient to compensate for the ability to work with a pay subsidy, and if the decline is permanent, then that pay subsidy should also be permanent. Passive unemployment benefit can be better used as active pay support, as suggested by the SDP in line with the Ringe model. If, on the other hand, there are major problems in working ability, active measures are needed, which are more training, rehabilitation and measures to improve working ability. Actions relating to health maintenance or improvement must be counted as active activities, and their quality and quantity must be increased. On the other hand, if the ability to work is completely lost, then help must be provided in order to genuinely qualify for an invalidity pension. The range of active measures needs to be broadened. Even the ministers said to the public when this model came into being that voluntary work or voluntary work was enough to be an active activity. Well, it's not enough. I should have looked into the presentation of my own government. It is still not enough because these corrections to the law have not been made. Participation, for example, in a community college course or in voluntary work should be compared to active activities because it maintains the well-being of people and maintains their ability to work. Representative Vartiainen said that you should not take courses that do not directly employ, but what if they keep life in order? It has its own value from the point of view of our social policy, although it may not be the same from the point of view of employment policy. The multiprofessional service centres of the workforce are about to be abolished by the government, even though they are a prized model at European level and they have been precisely the cross-sectoral professional cooperation that is actually needed, where health care, social services and labour policy form an intact whole, and where, when it works in the best possible way, people also receive the very help they need. In addition, we need a much wider and better intermediate labour market, where the emphasis is on ‘work’, not just on measures that are something else,or on the services market. We have a large proportion of people who are able to work part-time who could contribute their own work to society, but they do not succeed on market terms and would need more permanent forms of support. Above all, pay subsidies should be built on the basis of what a person's disability is, in such a way that they could be a percentage of that decrease in working capacity, because at the moment often people with disabilities are not using pay subsidies as it were, unemployment periods are required between them when there is not enough money available. And last, not least, is the basic security renovation. The idea of this reform was to increase the take-up of gigs, but it did not interfere with the most important, the bureaucratic trap and the running of social security that people will have to face when they receive the job, and this side needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u127	Mr President! It is true that this active model is unfair, as Mr Lindström has already testified in his speech, especially since I asked about the possibility of taking employees into paid employment. We have not used the employment appropriations in a couple of years because of the restriction we have on the employment potential of these associations. There is a lot of good work available, which activates people to move on to work and acquire a profession for themselves and even to maintain their working capacity. But what I resented about this active model job is what was seen once again, that trust in this government is rather weak. If we consider the conclusion of the Kiki Agreement and the conclusion of it, it was agreed at that point that there would be no weakening. And now this weakening, which was defeated, was hit directly by these weakest parties: it was considered that the weakest could afford to be taken, and a side was taken from it. If you think that we already have 140,000 unemployed who have been hit by this, the situation of the weak has really been severely weakened in reality. In my opinion, the government has lost confidence in it so that its word cannot be trusted, no matter what they promised. They always pull in and make sure that the weaker ones have a weaker situation and a weaker environment in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u128	Mr President! It has been pointed out here that this is the second most widely signed citizens' initiative in history, which is what nearly 141,000 citizens have said. In fact, I would like to read these arguments briefly in this citizens' initiative. The persons who have signed believe that unemployment benefit will therefore be reduced whenever the efforts made by the jobseeker to promote their own employment have not produced results. So this is how people feel that no matter how much effort you make, the operation is still done. This initiative also states that the job seeker does not decide on the results of the recruitment process. Well, it's true. In interviews, the employer decides who he will take. These are the decisions of the employer. It is further stated that the job seeker does not decide whether employment services supporting his career plans are even available in his own region, let alone whether he or she will be selected for the services he or she has applied for, but whether the TE Office will decide on both. — These are the key points: the words of the ordinary people are spoken in Finnish and directly about what this is all about. The chairman of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Filatov, gave a good speech, which I sign, that, of course, activity is a great thing and that we all want to be active citizens, and I know many young people and older people who experience anxiety and inactivity. They'd like to be part of society. Quite a few people choose the way they don't want to participate in anything, but if there are people like that... Minister Lindström said that when visiting TE Offices, people who have never applied for a job have been activated, so if he meant these people, perhaps this is a good thing. I have not seen these debates and statistics, and I do not really know what he means, but I personally believe that everyone is doing what they can, whether it is shorter to do, it may be participation in voluntary work, in study, and some of these measures are totally impossible at the moment. Mr Vartiainen is well aware of the issues and is familiar with the statistics, but it must be a little surprised that all government parties really have the same idea. When a person is actively trying to catch up with some form of volunteer work, he experiences feelings of success, does not become displaced, enthusiastic, and may become employed, and may be a longer continuum. It may not be so straightforward an economist's point of view, although I am sure you know a great deal about these statistics. I myself am a member of the Constitutional Committee, and today we will continue to work on another matter, which is also a big issue, namely the social reform, but in this regard we said in November 2017 that this law should be amended. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that it has consistently stressed that the refusal of benefits must be justified in relation to the types of employment promotion activities available and which can be attributed to the unemployed person. On the other hand, it was stated from the law in force that, according to its own explanatory statement, the present government’s proposal is a question of ‘designed calculation rule’ only for individual consideration. I am also a lawyer and I feel that if there are sanctions and penalties of any kind, as this cutter here is for a person who is not now considered to be active by this law, then there should be individual judgment involved. I think this is the way we want to think in the rule of law that in all cases the outcome cannot always be the same, no matter what a person does. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that changes should be made to this bill and that it must be possible to consider individually that it is not always this type of cutter, and this should have been removed. It is very unfortunate that these things were not done, and in fact I will think now that we are going to continue the evening there, when we discuss the weight of constitutional remarks we should make in the Constitutional Committee: we have a condition that we insist that this change should be made, or otherwise it cannot be dealt with under the ordinary legislative procedure, and then we have these second-rate constitutional observations which do not seem to be taken seriously. This is a place of debate that we have to start thinking about, what is the role of the Constitutional Committee: if we only make comments that are not legislative issues, then will they not be taken into account at all, or will we write them there to warm up, that they can then be discussed by each of us at a later stage? Representative Filatov had a good speech there, but the only thing that broke my ear was that he said about this subjective day care operation that a person cannot take a job when he cannot keep children in constant day care. I personally think that it cannot be so much that a person who is unemployed has an obligation to keep children always in the nursery so that he can take a few hours of work. Somehow this thought seemed strange to me. Personally, I would prefer a person to choose what he wants to do in his life, whether he wants to be at home with the children — it is a privilege to be at home with the children — or whether he wants to be in day care all day or 20 hours of what everyone is already getting. This day care is, in a way, not just this employment policy, but family policy. It could then be that if the child cannot be treated — we in Hyvinkää are insured that he will — I have asked him there in the city board — then that could be a legitimate reason why he could not have gone to work for the next day, for example. But I do not see that children must always be in day care because there can be a brave warrior in readiness 24/7 to receive work. So here's what I disagree with. But this is obviously the day when nothing is enough for the government, and I am definitely
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u129	Mr President! Otherwise, I agree with what Mrs Mere has said, but not with this part of day care, which now has this active model link. By adding red tape to the bureaucracy that if you do not receive full-time day care from the municipality for your child, that would be a reason to get out of the active model cutter. This isn't the right path. The right path is to dismantle this active model cutter, and the right path is also to dismantle this unfair decision that the right of unemployed children to full-time early education is limited, because I personally think that in this country, regardless of their family background, all children are equally valuable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u130	Mr President! I certainly did not say that not all children are of equal value, but I said that it is an honor and a pleasure to be able to take care of the children at home. I only said what I understood from Mr Filatov's speech that it would be better for the child to be in care all the time, that it was not an obstacle. In my opinion, too, it is very desirable that, if this active model cannot be reversed, the government should at least have corrected these very mistakes, which is also the case, that if you do not have children in day care, or it is exactly the same force Majeure if you do not have a means of transport or transport. That is what we generally have in society. But I do not want to go to the point where people have to take the children to care because we are doing this kind of employment policy. We have seen employment policy as a means of almost obliging people to take the children to care. If anyone wants to take care of him at home, let him be given and given the opportunity. It does not detract at all from the common rights of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u131	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u132	Mr President! Today's citizens' initiative tells us that, against public sense of law and morals, the citizens have been awakened to ask whether this active model is a fair way of managing employment policy in the society of today. It is a difficult matter and I personally believe that this active model should be rejected. The committee dealt with this issue very thoroughly, but with a relatively tight timetable. In my opinion, the committee's arguments, which are presented here to Parliament, are, in their details, those which address them. Firstly, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health draws attention to the fact that, as stated in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not only the self-employment of the unemployed person but also the fact that there is a different number of jobs available in different regions and that there is a difference in the quality of these jobs. In this regard, that is an important observation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs already drew attention to the way in which this active model was laid down in Parliament, in order to safeguard the fairness of this model. At that time, the Constitutional Committee did not put forward a lock that had been put behind the wheel and which had clearly sought a solution to this, but asked for reasons to be put forward to avoid a sanctioned refusal of benefits even in situations where a person would not have had activities available or an unemployed person could have been attributed to a reason that is unreasonable. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn the right attention to me. Reduction of the level of benefit should not be linked to matters beyond the control of the job seeker. In other words, the level of benefit should be linked to the fact that the applicant has all the means and opportunities to ensure that this benefit is available. These remedies are precisely what this citizens' initiative suggests that this current active model should be rejected precisely because people do not actually have the opportunity to activate themselves in Finland as a whole in the way currently required by this active model. The relevant information is available in this committee report. When you look at these statistics which have been submitted to the committee in connection with this case, this reduced unemployment benefit actually received some 150,000 people in the first active model during the period considered and, when further considered, 38 % of them received labour market support or basic daily allowance. So it's more than one in three. This is a serious message for us to ask whether this level of benefit is actually linked to the conditions under the influence of the job seeker that they can be affected by themselves. Yes, it seems that this is not the case. This is a serious, serious message. And if you take into account how many of these reduced earnings earners are on earnings-related allowance, they too are 32.8%, so you can say that about one in three. So, once again, the question raised in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs raises: is this active model too formal a practice for people to become active? Rather, it is a very passive model, because the state is not obliged to provide any kind of active action, even if it is what the person wants. So there is no subjective right to be activated, but instead there is a heavy obligation to be activated at the risk of cutting the benefit. Nevertheless, this is not always possible, so the job seeker should be able to be activated in another way if these traditional activation methods are not available. There is no such solution either. So that would be another solution for this active model. I personally support this solution to the citizens' initiative, which would in practice reject this proposal. The committee also found that the number of beneficiaries of basic income support has increased since the activation of the active model. Compared with the previous year, that growth is 7.4 per cent. The committee notes with one voice that it is clear that lowering the primary benefit as a result of the active model increases the need for last resort income support and also new income support recipients. This, too, is a very serious question. Therefore, in this Chamber debate, Parliament quite rightly required that, when the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health passes through this Chamber, Parliament insists that this reform be followed closely and, if necessary, broaden the means by which the condition of activity can be met if the proposed means are not sufficient to prevent an active job seeker or a job seeker seeking access to a service from being reduced. Unfortunately, I have to say that this is not very convincing from the point of view of Parliament. In view of this strong common will of Parliament, the development of an active model has unfortunately not yet been completed in this situation. But the good news is that the committee welcomes the fact that these shortcomings are now being taken into account and notes that there are shortcomings in the active model. As a result, the committee disagrees with what would be a proposal for a decision on this citizens' initiative. Some want to reject that citizens' initiative, others want to accept it. With these arguments, I myself belong to the group that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u133	Mr President! As has already been quite clear, the Finns of Finland support this popular initiative, signed by more than 140,000 Finns, to reverse the active model. The main problem with this active model, both in principle and in practice, is precisely that the model punishes unemployed job seekers for failure to seek employment or to seek employment support services, regardless of how hard they try. This kind of mentality is not at all suited to the Finnish way of thinking, where a guy is not left in trouble even in a difficult situation. However, this seems to be what the government is doing to many low - income unemployed people, which is also evident from the statistics. As stated in this protest from the Finns Party, according to the expert opinion of THL, for example, the number of applicants for basic income has increased significantly since the activation of the active model. Unfortunately, this information does not come as any surprise to us in the opposition, as we warned the government ministers on several occasions in December 2017, along with many other problems already identified at that time. These problems include, for example, the lack of regional equality and the reduction in unemployment benefits, especially for older and disabled unemployed people. This has also been clearly stated in the committee's report. Mr President! The review has shown that at least one third of the recipients of unemployment benefits have been targeted by this cutter. However, I dare say that the vast majority of them have done what they can to get to work, but they have not succeeded in doing so. Even Minister Lindström has publicly stated that many unemployed people have suffered from the lack of services allocated to them and have been targeted by an active model cutter. In spite of all this, the government still does not seem prepared to reverse an unfair and perceived active model that treats the unemployed without individual consideration. Mr President! To this end, I would like to say that the Finns of Peru have put forward a number of ways to improve employment development in order to increase the number of jobs. The means we have put forward include, among other things, sensiblely targeted training, tax reductions for people with low and middle incomes and measures to facilitate the start-up of business and the recruitment of new workers. Unemployment is primarily about lack of jobs, not the laziness of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u134	Mr President! The Social Democratic Parliament supports this citizens' initiative, signed by more than 140,000 Finns, and the removal of the deeply unfair active model cutter. That is what this debate is all about today: the active model, which has proved to be ineffective and deeply unfair, must be dismantled. The Socialist Group supports and stands behind these people, many of whom are on the move in favour of: Finland is regarded as a society in which everything is involved, and not as a society in which the first cuts are made from those who already have the least, those who have already lost half of their income and those who are the most vulnerable. Mr President! The so-called active model contains many very unfair details. Ministers here say that these are being repaired — but have not been corrected, and even after the next review period, tens of thousands of Finns are being cut back on unemployment security. It is really unfair that even people who have lost their rights because of illness, who have reached the ceiling for sickness allowance and who have fallen into labour market support, sick people, should be cut unemployment benefit. Would Congressman Vartiainen take a sick person to work? [Juhana Vartiainen’s interlude] The most unfair thing is that this also affects 30,000 people who are unable to work, which according to the government's own report is the amount that we have incapacitated with labour market support. What is the answer from the government to them? If you, who are incapacitated, don't get a job, you'll get surgery. If you go to rehab, they'll operate on you. Is that right? The path of the incapacitated person is through rehabilitation to work, and now any one chooses, except if the incapacitated person becomes employed, the alternative is surgery. This also affects 40,000 long-term ills, who we all hope will be rehabilitated and able to work, but if they do not get to work, the government’s message is that you will be operated on. If you go to rehab to get a chance to work, you'll still get surgery. Would the representatives take a substance abuser, a person with substance abuse problems, to work? If a substance abuser, who is absolutely essential for his genuine access to the labour market, decides to go to substance abuse rehabilitation, then even in this situation the government will cut unemployment benefit through an active model. This is a deeply unfair model, ladies and gentlemen. I ask — please — for all these people to be reconsidered once more. Is this Finland such a cold country and such a hard country, and is the policy of this government really so cold that even these people who want to find a path to working life are being cut back on unemployment security? Mr President! This is particularly unfair because of the fact that in Finland, where the economy is growing and employment is likely to rise and be peaking, the fourth consecutive year of unemployment will be cut. First, unemployment benefit was reduced, then for the first time, the second time, the third time was cut, the fourth time in the tube was cut, and an unfair operating model cutter was added. In a situation where the economy is growing and employment is rising, the unemployed are still being cut. The question arises: Is nothing enough? Is there ever a cyclical situation when the limit would be met? When the economic situation was poor, it was a reason to cut unemployment benefit for the unemployed, but it was also a reason to give new tax benefits at the same time, which are inefficient and go to interests close to the government. Now that the economy is in good shape, this active model cutter still cannot be abandoned, but the economy is not so good as to give cause to look at these inefficient, unfair, rich tax advantages. Mr President! I'm going to take a moment to take up the employment impact: It has been pointed out here that this has an impact on employment. Minister Lindström said that the active model had undoubtedly had an impact on employment. There is no doubt that what is known and is clear is that the number of income support customers has increased. More and more people are dependent on income support, and I believe that many people know that if what is the worst incentive trap of all to get back to work. That is the fact that is unquestionably known.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u135	Mr President! Finnish unemployment benefit has long slept in a rosary dream. As an organisation driven and poorly based on research, it has supported the rise of unemployment to the top of Northern Europe. During this term of government, however, Minister Lindström's leadership in Finland has taken steps in the Nordic direction, where it is essential to combine good unemployment protection with the obligations of being on the labour market. We have formally had compulsory unemployment benefit so far, but in practice the obligations have not been taken into account. The more security involves the obligations of activity and job search, the lower is unemployment and the higher unemployment security we may have. The active model is the first step in this direction. Of course we also want better employment services, but this is the direction in which we should go. For example, Mr Mikkonen here wanted better basic security, but the key to this is that social security is compulsory. The higher the number of obligations, the higher the level of social security. If the Green League had been involved in the work of the Joint Parliamentary Action Project, you would have been involved in learning about these issues. Small steps are now being taken to improve the poor situation in which unemployment was previously ignored. The previous government had set an ambitious employment target, but it did not bother to carry out any reforms that had a real impact on unemployment. [ Interim cries from the Social Democrats and Basic Finns Groups] There's been a lot of questions about the government's image. Well, the active model is based on what is known about human normal behavior in the light of research and life experience. Of course, the unemployed are the same as other people, and all sensible people know that unemployment is influenced both by the overall economic situation and by the individual behaviour of the unemployed, of course. In fact, I do not believe that you yourself in the opposition think that an unemployed person's own behaviour would have no effect on the likelihood of employment, and now we are trying to use the active model to influence the unemployed's own job search activity. We cannot have scientific proof when there has been no such thing — we do not know whether it can be done — but it is hardly a coincidence that since the active model was laid down, unemployment fell faster than any economic forecaster had predicted. [ In the case of the Group of the Party of European Socialists — Mr Lindtman requests the reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u138	Mr President! Mr Vartiainen responded to this criticism, which concerns the impact on employment. Well, it is now unquestionably clear that there is no evidence of the employment impact of the active model. There's no evidence of Etla's report. The incentive trap working group of the VM concluded that reductions in day care fees are the most effective sources of labour supply. Mr Vartiainen, who unfortunately leaves the Chamber, has learned far better than I have, but I dare to take the following point of view: Now that there is no scientific evidence or even estimates of the impact on employment, he said that it could be a coincidence that employment has risen since the active model was introduced. After all, Etla's report states that it is precisely the economic cycle that is the greatest explaining factor. But as far as this logic is concerned, on the same principle, ice cream sellers could be blamed for drowning in the summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u139	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u140	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to abolish the active model has been taken for good reason and I believe that it should be adopted and I have voted in favour of it in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I was already opposed to the active model of unemployment protection at the drafting stage of the law because I anticipated that it would treat the unemployed differently. That is exactly what has happened, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also warned against this. I voted against the active model because it cuts unemployment benefit for the unemployed even if the person had done his best to find employment, even temporarily. Mr Vartiainen was wrong here, by the way. After all, he criticised the opposition as if we were opposed to the requirement that the unemployed should be active. It is now the case that the current Unemployment Protection Act already requires active activity on the part of the unemployed, and of course the activity is good, and that is why we have the services of the unemployed. But now, in this Unemployment Protection Act, which we are now dealing with, and the problem with this active model is that even if a person is active, he can still be cut off from unemployment security. And this was the reason why the Constitutional Committee felt that this would treat the unemployed unfairly and unequally, because the services of the unemployed are not available everywhere in Finland as well and the age and level of education also affect what their chances of employment are, no matter how active they are. So I voted against the active model because it is unequal. Job opportunities vary widely across Finland and for people of different ages. The lack of jobs or age discrimination cannot be helped by the unemployed themselves. I voted against this because the brutal active model of the government is also actually punishing those who are unable to work and who have received a rejection decision on disability. I voted against because the minimum daily allowance for the unemployed is already below the poverty line before the cut and unemployment benefit is already based on reason. Here, too, Mr Vartiainen was wrong. He said that the Greens were in favour of a graduated unemployment allowance. That's right. But the Greens have never been in favour of cutting the basic daily allowance for the unemployed in this way, as is the case with the active model. The active model of unemployment security is an example of the government's legislative proposals, which have been trampled on regardless of the warnings of experts and without listening to the Constitutional Committee. The active model is in practice a cutter for unemployment security. The government did not listen to the serious warning of the Constitutional Committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs anticipates that this Act on unemployment security, which is called an active model, will treat the unemployed unequally, and because the services of the unemployed are incomparably available to the unemployed throughout the country, the government should have ensured that the services are available to all unemployed persons regardless of their place of residence, provided that participation in these active services is once a way of avoiding cuts in unemployment security. However, the government did not do so. That is why it was, and is, a poverty-deeping unemployment benefit cutter. There are people who are being punished by the active model who receive unemployment allowance from Kela does not help. A considerable number of long-term unemployed have been taken into account, some of which are practically incapacitated. The active model cutter may strike and has struck persons who are practically incapacitated during the period considered but have not received a benefit on the basis of disability. During the first reference period of the active model, i.e. April-June 2018, unemployment benefit decreased by up to 150,000 Finns due to the active model. The core problem with the active model is that unemployment protection, even the lowest unemployment benefit below the poverty line, can be cut even if people have done their best. Getting a job is not in the hands of the job seeker and access to the services of the unemployed varies from place to place. The cutter of the active model examined by the statistics has been uneven in terms of regional and age structure. A higher proportion of older unemployed people than average have not fulfilled the criterion of activity. The regionally active model has cut unemployment security especially in Eastern Finland, Uusimaa and Lapland. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health heard experts who raised a wide range of problems even before the adoption of this law. Now the Joint Organisation of the Unemployment Fund states that the active model treats citizens unequally geographically and by professional sector, as was warned before the adoption of the law. According to STK, the active model is unnecessarily burdensome for the implementation of unemployment security when assessing the impact of the active model on employment. And it is precisely those whose minimum unemployment benefit has been cut and who have had to resort to income support, which is, as we hope we know very well, a sort of poverty trap, because it is very difficult to put it back into work because it does not have the same safety component as unemployment security. GERMANY stresses that, in principle, cuts in low incomes are significant in the daily lives of the unemployed, and this is precisely the case. I am referring, therefore, to the experts consulted by the committee. According to the unemployed Central Organisation, there are no jobs or services available to all unemployed people, so the active model actually cuts the basic security of the unemployed, as we see from the increase in the number of people applying for income support. The active model is problematic because it does not take sufficient account of disability and part-time disability. According to the opinion of the National Institute for Health and Welfare, some of the long-term unemployed have a need for treatment and rehabilitation to improve working capacity, and these people are not suitable for the current active model. Instead of sanctions, they would need guidance on proper care, rehabilitation or other services. Council of Europe [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u141	Let's stick to these agreed time limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u142	Madam President! Earlier today I made a longer speech in which I analysed this situation. In fact, two points which I would like to add, and which I would like to add, have been left to me when this active model was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and since then I have noticed that the issues which were discussed on this subject have actually taken shape during this year and also as a result of the reports on this citizens' initiative. The first of these is that when the Finnish government introduced active model legislation, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health was extremely critical because the government had not made any real impact assessments on this at all, and as a result we knew that the active model was going to increase permanent poverty, depression, prolonged illness and exclusion, and more people were being transferred to a customer of income support, as has been said here today in several speeches, and as a result of the bill there is a real risk that Finnish society will be divided into different groups and that inequality will increase. All of this is based on the fact that no impact assessments have been carried out. As we have heard today from Minister Lindström and Mattila and also from some government parties, the starting point is that once the law has been adopted, we are now monitoring and evaluating and carrying out various studies which, in principle, show that all the original risk factors that were known when the active model was adopted are now materialised in the daily lives of citizens. The members of the government parties justify the general situation that, since employment has improved, the active model would also play a major role in this. However, several other contributions have already made it clear that this is not the case. The second thing that has been bothering us about this matter, which perhaps will be reflected this evening, is the state of play of the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when they make statements to the Committee on Budgets. When this active model was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we had a very strong debate on the fact that, when the Constitutional Committee criticised the situation and the motion that it was a matter of formulaic calculation without individual consideration, the Constitutional Committee considered that the government would, as a matter of principle, put unemployed people on an unequal footing with each other and that the unemployed themselves would not have a real chance to influence the reduction in unemployment allowance. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore addressed this particular problem and required that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health correct the situation by, for example, bringing individual considerations into the context of unemployment security. However, when this issue was discussed, the governing parties, the centre and the blues did not want to interfere in this consideration given by the Constitutional Committee and did not want to change their proposal according to the wishes of the Constitutional Committee and, as a result, this very essential part of this active model of the Constitutional Committee was ignored. Now we are in a situation where citizens have experienced injustice and have gone out of their way to demand justice and better democracy and want to be heard on this issue. That is why I would like the Constitutional Committee to be seriously involved when it comes to matters, and not necessarily to go behind the line, but to take seriously all the comments that are being made from it. In retrospect, I regret that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not put this behind us. That would probably have turned this whole further processing into something completely different.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u143	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to abolish the active model is well founded. The results obtained so far on the functioning of the model mainly suggest that the model acts as a benefit cutter and that the other effects are limited. There are many serious flaws in the model, and the model tells a lot about the government’s concept of human beings: Firstly, the model is unfair both regionally, by sector and by age group. The availability of jobs and employment-promoting services varies widely from region to region and sector, so the model endangers the equality of citizens by treating the unemployed in different regions and occupations unequally, regardless of the activity of the unemployed person. In addition, the active model seems to cut the benefits of older unemployed people in particular. Secondly, the model is inhumane and ignores people's ability to function. Unemployed job seekers have a large number of people who suffer from a disease or disability that reduces their ability to work or work. A large proportion of the long-term unemployed have significantly reduced their ability to work due, for example, to mental disorders. A significant proportion of the long-term unemployed have a need for care and rehabilitation to improve their working capacity. These people in particular feel that the active model is a punishment for their dignity, because rehabilitation, for example, does not seem to the government to be the right kind of activity. It is unfair to ignore people's ability to function and to require the same level of activity from everyone, even if they need a study of their ability to work, function and health restrictions, and guidance on appropriate care, rehabilitation, study of their ability to work or other appropriate services. When people ask themselves about the experience of the active model, they say that the model has increased feelings of worthlessness and inferiority. Some also say that feelings of hatred for society have grown. Many feel that they are being deliberately humiliated. This information should wake us all up. Thirdly, the model increases bureaucracy and does not provide adequate services. The model is excessively burdensome in terms of the implementation of unemployment security compared to its impact on employment. The main flaw in the model is that even active self-seeking is not considered to be an activity which in itself could avoid falling unemployment security. Instead of monitoring and sanctioning the unemployed' activity, efforts should be made to provide employment-promoting services and positive incentives for the unemployed. The long-term unemployed need training, personal support, co-walking, job search services, job coaching and so on, no penalties. Services for social work, health care and psychologists are also often needed. The fourth serious flaw in the model is that it adds to the difficulties in making a living. Reductions in small incomes are significant in the daily lives of the unemployed person. The unemployment benefits paid by Kela without child increases per month are on average EUR 696 gross, to which the cutter means a cut of over EUR 32 per month. Of course, income support will be able to supplement income if the conditions for support are met. However, income support is wrong if the need for a benefit is caused by legislation and a primary benefit reduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u146	Mr President! The active model testes the public's sense of justice. Not only the unemployed feel that the active model is very unfair. I do not know whether the ministers and representatives of the government parties understand how deeply unfair and inappropriate an active model is perceived. I do not know whether it is understood how much this has affected the spirit of Finland and how unjust a society Finland is in the minds of many people. Or is it just a question of not caring? Mr President! The worst part of the active model is that it punishes people for unemployment even when people have done everything they can to find a job and that it also actually penalises those who are unable to work, who are unfortunately very much on the unemployment card. The active model is particularly difficult for older unemployed people, who do not necessarily have a great deal of demand among employers and who may also have a lot of problems with their working capacity. It is the culmination of corniness that the representative of the government party here says that they are on the job of disabled people when they cut their livelihoods. Mr President! It should be said to Mr Vartiainen that the long-term unemployed and the partially disabled or fully disabled need support, not fresheners and penalties. Mr President! Apart from the unfair nature of the active model, the active model can lead to an unsatisfactory outcome for central government finances when people drift into income support dependency or inappropriate services, which at worst can be mainly a waste of money and time and eat people's motivation. Employment-oriented employment services, training and, in some cases, rehabilitation and support for working capacity are the most effective employment policies in the long term. Mr President! An active model, if anyone, is unnecessary bureaucracy. The government talks a lot about cutting red tape and breaking standards. This would be a good opportunity to dismantle standards and reduce unnecessary red tape by adopting this citizens' initiative and removing the active model. Now would be the time to put an active model in the trash.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u147	Mr President! Finland is a country that has risen in a short period of time, during independence, in a hundred years, from a backward country to one of the best countries in the world. What is the basis for this rise? That anyone in this country could have become anything, and the idea that everything is being carried around here. Finland’s success is based on the idea that everyone in this country has been able to trust that, regardless of circumstances or background, hard work, work and the desire to move forward in life can affect not only their own lives but also the lives of the loved ones and the entire nation. Finland is a country whose success is based on the fact that every person here can rely even at a dark moment on the fact that if you want to move on, take your life forward and find the path back to this society, tomorrow will be better. Mr President! The so-called active model of the government does not represent any of the values on which Finland was built. The government's so-called active model does not encourage activity. In fact, it even encourages people in the other direction: If you are unemployed, almost 90% of your unemployment benefit will be cut. If you are young unemployed but live in an area without job opportunities or services available, the government’s answer to you is: your unemployment benefit will be cut. If you are sick at work and you are out of work because of illness and you have been on sick leave for so long that your sickness allowance has been full, and that is why you have fallen into labour market support, which means you have a willingness to work but not a chance to work, then the government's active model will cut you off. If you are incapacitated but not unworkable and you do not have the opportunity to get a job, the government’s answer is: you will be cut unemployment benefit. If you are incapacitated but not unworkable and want to improve your chances of getting back to work and going to rehabilitation, you will also be in surgery. If you are excluded from the labour market because of a substance abuse problem and you are in labour market support and decide to improve and apply for substance abuse rehabilitation to get a job, the government will also cut your unemployment benefit. Mr President! The active model increases people's dependency on income support. Its message is that even if you go to rehabilitation if you do not have the ability to work, but you cannot get to work and your money is not enough, you will have to receive income support. Where it's hard to re-employment. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called 'active model' of the government does not work, and it is also deeply unfair, especially to those people who, without their own fault, have already lost half their income, and especially to those who have the will to work but not the ability to work. Representative Vartiainen here spoke of the Nordic social democratic thinking of active labour market policies. I represent and strongly support active labour market policies. This so-called 'active model' of the government just does not represent it. One of the Nordic Social Democratic active labour market policies is that if you are ill or incapacitated and go to rehabilitation, you will not be punished for it. It is not part of the social democratic labour market policy in the Nordic countries that they are being cut off from those who are the most vulnerable and who do everything they can to seek employment or to pursue labour market training, and yet do not get access to it. This does not represent active labour market policies. Nor is an active labour market policy in the Social Democratic Nordic countries represented by a system of unemployment security in which thousands and thousands of people are dropped to last resort income support, the most difficult of which is employment. Mr President! Perhaps the most deeply unjust active model cutter for all those who are willing to work but who have no reason or other opportunity to work will appear in the light of the decisions the government has taken during this parliamentary term against the unemployed. The economy is growing and employment is rising, but for the fourth year in a row the unemployed are being cut. When the economic situation was poor, it was the reason for the government to cut unemployment benefit, to reduce unemployment benefit. Now that the economic situation is good, it is still a reason for the government this year to cut unemployment security and, in addition to this so-called active model cutter, to make further cuts to their safety, which, without their own fault, have already lost half their income. The government's active model cutter isn't working. There is no evidence of its impact on employment. The Etla report does not in any way reflect the impact of the active model on employment. And now that Mr Vartiainen has admitted that this is not the place to be. [The President knocks ] the employment effects studied, and he argued that, since employment has increased with the active model,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u148	Madam President! On the active model, I fully agree with Mr Lindtman. But this beautiful description of social democracy has suffered quite a bit of inflation since the 1990s, since membership of the EU and the first government of Lipponen. We are living in the raw market economy, to which we went then, and it is now visible. The exchange rate is tied. I do not want any devaluation period, but they have now been unemployment and employment, which have been flexible since the late 1990s when Lipponen forced us into this common currency, which is now in deep crisis. We do not have a very beautiful future on the horizon under the leadership of the Social Democrats either, unfortunately. If you now have power, you will be the victims and prisoners of this same problem of unemployment and poor economic development, and it will not be easy to move on from it. An alternative is now needed, and it is interesting that you only have expenditure increases as an alternative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u149	Mr President! I am glad that during this parliamentary term Mr Kankaanniemi has changed his view as to whether cutting the unemployed is right and creating new jobs. I am glad that he is now opposed to this active model. But now that he began to go through these 90s, when I was still in primary school, I cannot help but wonder whether it was because of the fact that, in the early part of the year, Mr Kankaanniemi supported the reduction in unemployment benefit, supported the reduction in unemployment benefit, supported the second and third cuts in unemployment benefit. Mr President! Every Finnish MP in this Chamber has voted in favour of further cuts being made to those who, without their own fault, have already lost half of their income. And, Mr Kankaanniemi, I think the Finns will remember that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u150	Mr President! Yes, it is worth looking a little further into what kind of career we have been in in this EU and Euro era and it has been a dark time in the sense that unemployment is the only one who has been flexible. As far as these cuts are concerned, I have said many times that in the spring of 2015, Finland was on the brink of disaster after Antti Rinte gave up the role of Minister of Finance. Once and for all, it was necessary to take some drastic measures when you had not taken them in the last period, but had fallen into the army of 100,000 new unemployed people, and then the options were not very good. We opposed the active model in December 2017
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u153	Mr President! Let me see if this is my last response. — Mr Kankaanniemi, I am pleased that you are now of the opinion that cutting off the unemployed will not bring any new jobs, despite the fact that we are living in a high economic climate and that the economy and employment are growing. But in 15, in 16 and still in 17, Mr Kankaanniemi, you felt, as you have just said, that tough measures should be taken, including cutting off the unemployed. In a bad economic climate, when the economy and employment did not grow, you, Mr Kangasniemi, felt that cutting the unemployed was the right thing to do. I did not think it was right, and I am glad that your thinking has evolved. But it will not be forgotten that when the night was dark, you felt that cutting off the unemployed
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u154	Mr President! The alternative in spring 2015 would have been that Finland’s credit rating would have collapsed. Huge problems would have fallen in the arms, as they did in 90, 91 C.E. I know that when I was responsible at the time, and there was absolutely no way for Finland to be allowed into this situation. On this basis, we started to rise. Then, in December 2017, a mistake was made when this kind of active model was made, but you didn't have a choice either. Why did you allow the situation to get as bad as it did in the last parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u155	This is a long way from the subject matter itself. But the general debate is now closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-19-ps-161.u156	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
