ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u1	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 2.5 hours is reserved for the referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u2	Madam President! Finland's GDP in 2019 is projected to grow by 1.5 per cent. The growth of the world economy slowed down this year due to the uncertainty surrounding trade conflict, and the growth of Finland's export demand is slowing down strongly this year. The increase in goods exports is modest except for the maritime industry. Private investment is expected to decline in 2019. However, private consumption continues to grow rapidly as a result of higher earnings levels and improved employment. Mr President! In the Government’s fourth amending budget, EUR 0.6 million is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and EUR 0.4 million for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The aim of the proposed additional allocation is to ensure, among other things, the organisation of trauma therapy and psychosocial support. In addition, it is proposed to compensate for the extra costs of the impact of Savo's Joint Municipal Education Group, which will allow for the smooth continuation of training and other measures needed to normalise the situation. An additional EUR 4.7 million is proposed to secure the functioning of the Finnish Immigration Service and an additional EUR 1.1 million is proposed for the Agency's necessary ict expenditure. Similarly, an increase of EUR 3 million is proposed in the operational expenditure of the Food Agency to safeguard its operations. An increase of EUR 290000 is proposed in the case of state aid for the internationalisation of enterprises and the promotion of entrepreneurship in employment counselling for SMEs. Mr President! Taking into account the EUR 114 million increase in actual revenue and the EUR 95 million increase in appropriations, the fourth draft amending budget for 2019 will reduce the need for net government borrowing by EUR 19 billion. Central government's net borrowing in 2019 is estimated at approximately EUR 2.4 billion. The amount of central government debt at the end of 2019 is estimated to be around EUR 107 billion, which is approximately 44 per cent of GDP. Thus, the ratio of central government debt to GDP is projected to fall from last year, even though economic growth is slowing down.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u3	And then we'll have a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u4	Madam President! Ministers, colleagues and others present! We are dealing with the fourth amending budget of this year, and this could quite well be summed up, summed up: more debt, more debt and yet more debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u11	Looks like they want to make a debut on this. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u12	Mr President! It is good that this government has changed the direction of economic policy. A future policy is now being taken over by the former coalition government's cutting policy. As far as this matter of veterans is concerned, I remember quite well that we were quite shocked at the fact that the group members of the previous government wanted to carry out a reform with the index freeze of the front supplements. This is what the government said. This is true. We updated it and were horrified by it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u17	Mr President! The right level of money and staff, for example, is not standard in the police or the Finnish Immigration Service, but depends on how much they have to do and what is expected of them. It is an unsustainable equation that funding falls or remains constant at the same time as the operating environment becomes more difficult or the workload increases. Policy decisions can influence the workload of the authorities and thus the need for resources. Legislation can influence whether people who burden Migri, the police, administrative rights, Kela and municipalities, for example, are attracted to Finland. Of course, more money needs to be allocated to the acute deficit, as has been done, but I would like to emphasise a comprehensive policy that does not create and exacerbate problems but prevents them from being created, because in this way we can also curb the increase in costs over a long period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u18	Mr President! Of course, most of the changes to the amending budget are necessary and necessary, as is the case at this stage of the year. We are concerned, of course, by what Mr Heinonen has pointed out that the current year's debt, that is, this year, has now been significantly increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u21	Mr President! Minister Lintilä described this prospect very realistically, and it is very important that we are all aware of these fundamental economic issues. It should be pointed out that this programme of Prime Minister Rinte's government contains a number of measures which create the conditions for economic growth. There is a strengthening of basic security that improves the purchasing power of low-income people, there are investments in infrastructure that creates conditions for economic and industrial development, investment in education and training and then in employment services. I think Mr Mykkänen's speech was constructive. This is what we need. In other words, this promotion of work-related immigration: this budget now has a number of reservations that these applications can be dealt with more quickly and that they can be obtained from those badly-needed workers in all regions, you can almost say that for all sectors. This type of constructive action is needed, and this is therefore a matter for the whole of Parliament; this is a matter for Finland as a whole, i.e. it is not worth looking for confrontation. And I think it's the saddest thing if we go into veteran business and do politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u22	Mr President! I personally would like to thank the government for these important additions. Every euro in this amending budget will be needed. At the same time, it must be said that it sounds a little miraculous to hear this criticism from the opposition, while saying that this money is going to be important and the right place, but it is still being said that too much money is being spent. That is why it would be interesting to hear whether, then, it is considered that these investments in the tracks should not be made, but should be less invested in, that the Finnish police should not be given these additional millions,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u25	Madam President! Mr Kar is having trouble understanding what has been said.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u28	Madam President! Representative Zyskowicz shouted here: ‘Here not to distort’. I should like to ask Minister Lintilä: when you told me that this amending budget would reduce debt borrowing by EUR 19 million, I believe, and when Mr Heinonen's speech on the amending budget suggests that debt borrowing would increase, on a scale from zero to 19, how distorted was Mr Heinonen's speech? Was it even the seed of truth? Madam President! The additional resources of the Finnish Immigration Service are of the utmost importance for a fair, legally valid and sufficiently rapid response there. Another important funding is given to the Finnish Food Authority to avoid negotiations and redundancies now, but at the same time it must be borne in mind that these problems are in the framework of what has been done during Minister Orpo's time, and we must now look at the budget for both the Finnish Immigration Service and the Finnish Food Agency, as well as next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u30	Madam President! Of course, the fourth amending budget of the year is always so-called supplementary and partly technical, but I agree with those who are concerned about this overall direction of economic policy and this additional debt. This is the representative. Mr Arhinmäki has just made his point of view clear, but I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u35	Mr President! It is quite right to ask a few questions on the part of the opposition party, while at the same time it has been said that all this important extra expenditure is going to take place, and at the same time it has been said that the deficit is too large and that billion-dollar tax cuts have been promised, so it is already asking how to close this equation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u40	Madam President! Firstly, I would remind Mr Lindtman and others that you are now on the board. You're in charge. You are responsible for Finland's economic and employment development. You should react to the slowdown in global economic growth, to the slowdown in European economic growth and to the coughing of the Finnish economy. You should take responsibility and do the right thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u43	Mr President! This is clearly a little difficult to understand there on the green left, but the investment is the kind of spending that will produce something in the future and pay for itself. In the case of immigration, for example, the high costs do not arise from the staff costs of the Finnish Immigration Service, but from the arrival in Finland of large numbers of people who are permanently placed under the social security system. In Finland, income support expenditure in society is constantly increasing, and in the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, almost half of all income support expenditure is increasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u44	Mr President! Taking care of the Finnish rule of law is a central objective of this government, and it is therefore good that we can now really ensure that: The Finnish Immigration Service has sufficient resources
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u47	Mr President! It is really important that the line of sustainable economy is maintained, and although I do not want to go here to carry out any archaeological excavations, i.e. to remember the past, you can see that the downward spiral of the Finnish economy was corrected during Sipilä's government, [Column: Yes, it is true!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u48	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Lohe, for mentioning the role of the Sipilä government in this economic recovery. However, I do not understand how this current government represents the continuity of the Sipilä regime, which I believe is quite the opposite in many respects. As far as this debt is concerned, everyone here knows that it is up to employment whether this debt is going to explode or not. And I will return to this work-related immigration. Now we have the impression that the resources that are now being allocated to Migri in this amending budget, which are therefore good, would solve this problem, but unfortunately will not solve it. If my information is correct, this will avoid layoffs, but temporary employment, for example, will be interrupted there, and it is precisely during this government that these work-based permits, even those of these top experts, have been delayed. If you can't do anything else in employment, at least put this permit policy in order, because it's from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u49	Mr President! Representative Halla-aho has already left here, but it would be worth reminding him that the overall impact of immigration on the economy of Finnish society is calculated not negative. [of the Group of Independent Finns :ohohhh! Shining!] Mr Heinonen's speech: the rhetorical force in your speech was convincing, quite shockingly convincing, and above all the criticism of the government. Thank you for the basic content of your speech. You thanked the amending budget for the very right targets, but your rhetoric culminates in a sentence: economists say that employment would be better if the Rinte government had done nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u50	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen spoke of immigration as a whole and, of course, he does not take any account of quality factors. As we know very well, although immigration from the United States is much more economical for us than, for example, from the Horn of Africa, which is generally social. But I would like to return to that speech by Mr Heinonen. He seemed pleased that the railway projects were progressing. The railway link between Turku and Helsinki is planned for the Espoo urban railway. However, there does not appear to be a decision on construction even in next year's budget. Although these small investments are here, the EU is distributing billions of euros of transport aid to the Member States and large calls for applications will mark the beginning of the current period. We need a decision to make use of these subsidies, otherwise we will not be able to do so. I would also like to ask Minister Marin whether this additional investment of 4.1 million is sufficient for municipalities. As I have heard, as Mr Rantakangas well knows, many village schools are being closed down in Haapavesi, for example, and the same fate also exists in Nousiainen. Minister Lintilä
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u51	Mr President! We must be very grateful to the government for Migri's additional resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u54	Madam President! At the beginning of November, a law was introduced, indeed, which allows veterans to receive home-support services free of charge, and that is a great thing. I would like to ask the Minister how, in future, you will also take into account the war widows and the mates of veterans in these services, i.e. whether they will also receive them, because I have understood that they are not covered by this law. In other words, war widows, as well as, in my opinion, all those who have experienced war, are in some way entitled to services. How do you see the Minister? Madam President! I'd like to ask you about these state mental hospitals. You're targeting more resources there. It is true that the biggest problem in Finland is access to and availability of basic mental health services, but you are now allocating funding to those who do not have a municipality of residence in Finland and the person who pays care is not determined by any other legislation. I would like to ask whether you are opening up more services to the undocumented — in other words, non-voluntary care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u55	Madam President! It is very good that such a strong debate is taking place. I was just a little surprised that this veteran thing was taken here as a sort of plus or minus for someone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u58	Mr President! Where the representative: Mr Heinonen gave the opposition's introductory statement,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u63	Madam President! Having heard what Mr Essayah and Mr Östman have said, I now understand what Mr Heinonen was criticising: he did not criticise the Rinte government, but he criticised the chairman of his party, former Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, who has presented to this Chamber and prepared this Chamber for this year's budget, which was in deficit and which was based not only on the fact that economic growth was dwindling — that is to say, now in this supplementary budget, which is being dealt with, the Government of Rinte reduces the debt owed by the chairman of the Assembly, the former Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo. Rarely do you hear such fierce criticism of the chairman of your party as Mr Heinonen put it here. This amending budget is given by the Rinte government, this year's budget is given by the then Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u65	Madam President! A year ago, it was estimated in this Chamber that this year's new debt would amount to EUR 1.4 billion. Now the sum has increased stealthily by one billion, or a total of 2.4 billion. Well, then, when we point out that debt is growing and new debt is being taken and debt is being used to finance these important measures as such, why do we say that they are good measures? They are good measures, but you do not make the money you would pay for them, and that is why you should take employment measures. And I am pleased that Mr Harakka left the Chamber — hopefully to take the employment measures, because they are precisely what is needed now to bring this economy into balance in the future. You have set a high target of 75% in the employment rate. This means between 60,000 and 70,000 new jobs, and you have not yet taken any measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u66	Madam President! I remember when there was this question of the active model of the coalition in which they expressed their regret at the dismantling of this active model of strangling the unemployed, and then, among other things, Minister Harakka said that he had already taken 25 measures to promote employment, which was a very good thing, Mr President. But still we have not heard the logical explanation, or has anyone here heard — hand up, if anyone has heard — a logical explanation of what the coalition is now trying to pursue? They here are highly critical of debt-taking, they have reported that they would further reduce taxes on the good people, thus reducing taxes, and at the same time they will not tell us what they would cut off — except that they have told: in their own ‘employment activities’ they have proposed income support and unemployment security. In other words, this is the unemployment measure of the coalition, or the employment measure — excuse this slight slip, perhaps because of the ideas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u67	Mr President! The Coalition Party will present employment measures in its own alternative budget,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u70	Madam President! Minister of the Interior, I myself visited the main police station in Tampere yesterday when you visited it. After all, for years the house has been in bad indoors and has been desperately trying to repair it. The staff's disease rate is high. Why don't you finally find the money somewhere in Nekalaa for that new police house?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u71	Let's give the ministers some answers. Will the Minister of Finance, Lintilä, begin? Three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u72	Mr President! I don't even think I need that three minutes. A few comments: Indeed, in this amending budget, net borrowing will be reduced by 19 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u80	Secretary Marin. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u81	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the questions. We asked about the Espoo city track, its situation. As I have said several times in this Chamber, the Espoo urban railway is part of this faster rail link in the direction of Turku, but since its planning phase is different from that of this rail connection as a whole, this Espoo urban railway will be dealt with in the context of the MAL process, which is currently under way. So we're trying to find solutions to this building before. We therefore do not expect this whole section to be completed, and this will therefore be dealt with as part of the MAL process. As far as these high-speed rail links are concerned, in the case of the Finnish railway line, in the case of the Turku hour train, today we have in fact held a first meeting at the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the first opportunity to promote these negotiations on the shareholders' agreement, which is how the matter is being prepared. I believe that we can proceed quickly here. Various parties have expressed their interest in these project company negotiations, and quite extensively we have involved municipalities in the shareholder negotiations of this Northern Finland track project company, other municipalities than only the municipalities between Helsinki and Tampere. The value of high-speed rail connections and the expansion of working areas is understood throughout Finland, and also from a climate perspective, the importance of rail investments, and that is why many parties, many municipalities, are now moving much more widely than during the last government term. Of course, there are still a lot to resolve. On the north side, in particular, the rail lines are still open and, of course, we also need to negotiate what costs the different municipalities and others are prepared to finance this planning. And this is precisely the second difference that comes with these previous plans: it is now recognised that this needs to be done in stages, this needs to be done carefully, and what we are now negotiating is the project companies that are focusing on planning up to the construction capacity. In other words, we must first plan the rail links before decisions can be made on construction before the state or municipalities or anyone else can commit themselves to covering the costs of construction. First, there must be an idea of exactly what the cost of construction is. This work has now been started under this regime — systematically, with careful consideration and good, thorough preparation, and we are proceeding on this path. I personally believe that these negotiations will hopefully be completed quickly and that we will be able to reach these requests for EU funding, these rounds which are currently under way. We've got two tail search rounds. The first one is now underway and will end in early next year,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u82	Your Honor! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for your good comments and also for your thanks to the government. Issues have also been raised from this Chamber on the part of both the opposition and the government, which have now been corrected in this amending budget. Quite a few people in this Chamber already share the idea that Finland is ageing, that Finland is a country where birth rates are falling, and we need work-related immigration here. For years it has been discussed whether the management of work-related immigration should be located in the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. This government has jointly decided in the spring Government Programme to move the matter forward, from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of the Interior. They're working on it right now. This one's in the machining. We will return to this as soon as we can. Questions related to other immigration. When we look at the big picture of why we come to Finland: almost 90 per cent of people coming to Finland come to Finland for studies, work, perhaps a partnership, perhaps a family. In other words, the proportion that is often spoken about in the media and in this Chamber — humanitarian immigration, quota refugees, asylum seekers — is eventually about a tenth of all immigration to Finland. This or other immigration is a matter of seeking faster authorisation procedures for all immigration. With regard to working-related people, as the Minister for Finance has pointed out, we are trying to reach that month's processing time and, in general, we are facilitating processes. This requires people to deal with them in different authorities, and that is why we have in the past also added additional appropriations to the heads of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Employment. Of course, we also need more effective ict systems for the processing of personal data. This reform, too, has already been launched on the Migri side during the last period, and we are also trying to push it forward so that these automatic processes can also be promoted. It is very important to note what has been raised here many times: here we are filling this year's budget. In addition to that, we have, of course, come out in the budget debate with the increases needed for next year in order to make these authorisation processes a success. There are 13 million extras coming to the Finnish Immigration Service for next year and the following year,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u85	Do we want to continue the debate? Apparently.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u86	Thank you, honourable Speaker! In other words, this additional budget is largely a technical proposal, reducing borrowing by 19 million. The real surprise is found in that article 33.20 of the STM, which states that 85 million will be saved by rising unemployment on the one hand and fewer unemployed people on the other.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u89	Mr President! You, ladies and gentlemen, are a completely different government than the two previous ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u93	Mr President! In this debate, I would like to highlight the very dangerous policy of taxation. You presented in the environmental programme before the parliamentary elections that the car tax would be abolished and that money would then be collected from ordinary Finnish motorists. If you had been able to do this now, that would have meant that, in the light of history, it would have been one of the biggest negative regional policy, social policy solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u94	Madam President! This speech by Mr Rantakangas has to be addressed, because he has completely misinterpreted the line of the vote on car taxation. It is not possible that those people who have already paid a car tax once before, after the car tax exemption, will pay it again. [Department: Of course not! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u95	Mr President! Mr Orpo said that the Assembly would have prioritised these expenditure increases differently, and at the same time Mr Heinonen and the partners here criticised the additional debt for this year in relation to these additional budget estimates. I would now like to ask the assembly that, when your President just said that you would prioritize otherwise, could you now tell us what expenditure you would not have made on this year's amending budgets? The 600 million transport projects, these hourly connections that are now being put forward, would you have put more than EUR 200 million less money into the municipalities, would you not have left the Finnish Immigration Service without a proposal which the Minister for the Interior has done well now, The fleet 2020 project, because you can't eat cake and watch it at the same time. And the second question, Mr Heinonen, when you are your leading economic thinker in the assembly, would you do it now on top of the government's additions, if you were to finance income tax reductions, a billion tax reductions in the form of an increase in harmful taxes,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u96	Madam President! The Government Programme says that the shadow economy and tax evasion cause significant losses for the state, but also, of course, for municipalities. The sufferers are those companies that carry out their duties properly and, of course, those who work properly are also the sufferers. They're being taxed more. The Government Programme says that EUR 20 million will be allocated to work against the shadow economy during the parliamentary term, and that is a good record. For example, Mr Lindtman has said exactly three years ago that this could save tens, if not hundreds of millions of euros. Now I am aware that investigations have been carried out into the CIS system. Its transparency could be increased, it could be developed. The development is complete without legislation, without implementation. We need money from 3 to 4 million, and we're going to have savings. I will ask Minister Lintilä whether this is the case and where we are going and whether the tax evaders will be brought under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u97	Madam President! When you look at this amending budget, everyone here has thanked the contributions the government makes. On the other hand, once we have drilled a little deeper into this amending budget, it is stated that employment has improved and therefore income increases and debt is falling. And these. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u104	Mr President! I do not understand this debate now why we want to give the impression, as it were, that we would shorten the debt of the State, when it is now on the contrary, that this year — this year, Mr Arhinmäki — the debt of the State will increase by 1.6 billion;
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u109	Madam President! I do indeed marvel at the comment made by Minister Ohio just now. If 90% of the immigrants who have come here have come to work or to study, and 10% are the people who need our social security, then how is 3.2 billion a year affected? I wonder.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u112	Madam President! For this indebtedness: For sportsmen Lindtman and Arhinmäki I would perhaps try to put it in a sports metaphor, if you would understand it more clearly then. If, for example, you're heading a mile in the wrong direction, 1,000 meters,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u121	Madam President! There has been a lot of talk here about debt and the economy, and I think this is the big question. That is where the amending budget provides, among other things, the refund of the child allowances, EUR 13 million. I think it's time to wake up. What is the demographic development of this country? How do we have families who wish to have more children and employment? This is a big question when it comes to the economy and the debt and who pays for it. I believe that here in the back row there are some paying men and women, those young people who have to shoulder the responsibilities that have been assumed here. Just as Minister Lintilä said responsibly, politically speaking, for ten years this country has been in debt — for ten years now. I think it is a nuance whether one amending budget is EUR 10 million more debt or less debt, when in the big picture it means that the country is in debt. That is more than EUR 100 billion in debt,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u122	Mr President! It is great that these high-speed train connections are finally being taken forward and that the funds provided by the last government are now being used and the form of the project company also being taken forward. I also welcome the second continuum in relation to the previous government. I am very pleased with the perspective of equality: that there is a contribution to the international award for equality. In many ways, Finland is a pioneer in equality and we can also influence this internationally. On this basis, a few years ago, we launched the IGEP prize between the Prime Minister's Office and the City of Tampere, which is awarded to someone who has contributed significantly to gender equality internationally. This first prize was awarded to Angela Merkel, who directed the prize funds to Africa, to prevent violence against women. It is great that the second prize can now be awarded in Tampere in December and that 300 candidates have already been nominated. As regards local government finances, it is quick to say that it is a good thing that there is a small relief there, but this will not solve the big basic problem of local government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u123	Madam President! I am a little surprised at this debate as a new Member of Parliament, in the sense that we are now discussing an amending budget, and the amending budget is now looking at the fact that the level of government debt is less than previously planned. Then, I did not intend to bring this up, but I must now remind the assembly that, when we count the parties that have increased national debt most for about 30 years, the coalition is clearly in the lead here. It must be noted that now that you are particularly critical of the Green Left for taking on this additional debt, the Coalition Party has taken on more central government debt in the last 30 years than the Green Left combined.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u125	Madam President! This is where Mr Viitanen said that this government has changed the direction of economic policy. And it certainly is. When the previous government put this country’s economy in order — as many colleagues have said here: it turned the debt into a steep decline, and 140,000 people were able to work — this government has decided again to choose the way to increase expenditure and take up debt. There's nothing you can do to get rid of that now. Mr Viitanen also said that the government had a list of 25. The only problem is that the Ministry of Finance has not been able to assess any action, Mr President, with a positive impact on employment. The Economic Policy Evaluation Council has also stated in its opinion that no measures have yet been proposed to achieve the employment objective. Mr President! I note that you are now in the government. It is your responsibility to take these employment measures, and we will be challenging you against the opposition for so long that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u126	Mr President! The further this debate goes, the more perplexed I am by this line of the Assembly, because the impression has just come back that there should be no increase in expenditure. While here, on the other hand, the coalition has said that it is good that the government has increased funding for education or, for example, for the care of the elderly. But, President-in-Office, it was already asked whether the Assembly felt it was wrong to have invested in transport or otherwise in the amending budget or estimates. I haven't heard the answer. And on the other hand, I'm concerned about tax policy. In fact, the assembly has very interesting statements on that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u129	Mr President! It is sometimes difficult to hear here a little further, especially when Mr Arhinmäki intervenes in lengthy spaces. I wish we could listen here in peace. To this draft amending budget: a further EUR 95 million is now being presented, and good things have been said here, above all this launch of railway projects, which was already announced in September. Hopefully it will actually get ahead now and in Espoo, to start building the urban track, you can actually put a crash on the ground. And for the purchase of military equipment — great that additional funding will be available for the Fleet 2020 procurement decision. Other good things: additional funding for follow-up care of the Kuopio attack and the Emergency Response Centre, which necessarily needs it. Of course, many were still missing, but I will continue with the next speech. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u130	I think this debut's pretty much about to come to an end. If we could give the ministers the answers now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u131	Mr President! This is where the coalition is now separated from this election programme, which was indeed this abolition of car tax. That was in your environmental programme, which you launched in a very impressive way — but that is it, fortunately, you are not in the process of implementing it. I would like to say that very good additions here are, for example, the money coming to the Food Agency. They mean being able to carry out important tasks that the Food Authority has overall. Then there was the money for employee counseling. This is what Finnish Entrepreneurs have been saying. It is precisely the facilitation of the remuneration of the first employee that the Minister for Labour has spoken about, and also of the growth of micro-enterprises. They are small steps, but they are steps in the right direction. For the sole entrepreneur in particular, there is a huge potential for job creation. We have 170,000 sole entrepreneurs in Finland. It is thought that even a fraction of the population could be employed by the first foreign worker — already a significant part of the employment objective of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u132	And now we are going to give two speeches, and then the ministers will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u133	Madam President! I can see that Mrs Rantakanka is already feeling a little guilty and seems to be feeling a little bad when, in today's plenary session, under the leadership of the centre, there will be increases in taxes on petrol and die-sel. [Antti Rantakangas’ interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u134	Madam President! The representative of the car's navigational comparison was excellent. This is a map drawn up by the Minister for Finance — then Minister of Finance, Chairman of the Coalition Party, Mr Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u137	Madam President! Yes, we have been in the swamp, that is to say, in the swamp. The last period ended up in this dispute over the regional model and freedom of choice, and it would be important to move things forward and the basic services for people. Here in the amending budget, 11.2 million will be allocated for the preparation of the war, some of which will go to IT, about two million, but where will the rest be? So I would like to ask you: what is the situation with the socks at the moment? And then I also call for this involuntary psychiatric treatment. Can you open this for me? The increase is due to the cost of the care of persons assigned to non-voluntary care in cases where the person does not have a municipality of residence in Finland and the obligation to pay the costs cannot be imposed on the basis of international agreements. Moreover, the costs of treatment cannot be reimbursed on the basis of Article 50 of the Health Care Act. Tell us what this means — is there now a new situation in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u138	And the Minister's answers. Secretary Marin, two minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u139	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. First of all, for Mr Auto, about this situation in Simon and this point in Maksniemi, about this missing section of 800 metres: I am aware of this situation and I myself consider it rather extraordinary and unreasonable, and I am sure that we will find solutions to this. We've already been through this, and then...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u142	Then, Minister Lintilä, is it enough for two minutes or three?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u143	Mr President! First of all, for Mr Eestilä: the Government is taking measures to improve employment. The economic situation is extremely challenging internationally. The main challenge is that, perhaps incorrectly said, there has hardly ever been such a difficult economic situation at international level as it is at present, the main cause of the threat of trade war on the China-US axis. Then, in Europe, we have the Brexi, the worse economic situation in Germany than expected and, in general, the measures that affect free trade by the rules. Finland is an export-driven country, as you well know: 40% of our GDP comes from exports, and when exports start stalling, we will immediately see it. In other words, we are trying to make a very stable economic and budgetary policy in such a way that we can create predictability at national level, because it is very difficult to predict, at international level, actually from 20 years onwards, and this is the big challenge. Mr Kiuru can be told that, in the case of the grey economy, priority is given to: The tax administration has an exchange of information: exchange of information and it is there that the operators of the platform economy are involved. There is a great deal of investment in information systems at the moment and, in general, it is extremely important to pull down the barriers to the exchange of information between all actors in order to prevent and prevent the shadow economy in general. And here we also need to remember that we have a relatively small tax deficit if we compare internationally, but this is a big entity that happens then — in fact, the main responsibility is STM and TEM, and then the VM is involved. With this whole thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u144	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u145	Mr President! There are many good things in the Government's fourth draft amending budget, as I pointed out in the previous speech: the funds for post-Standard management of the Kuopio attack, the additional allocation proposed to safeguard the functioning of the emergency centre system, and An additional appropriation shall be added to enable the implementation of the fleet procurement decision. And it is especially good to hear now that the model of the railway company is also moving forward, as planned by the coalition in the previous period — it is good to hear that the government has come to the line of the coalition. It would be good, of course, to have time for EU aid applications and funding for these projects, too. I was visiting Spain this weekend, and I heard how a lot of money had been spent on you — all these roads have been made there with EU aid, and I would like to hear in Finland too that we can make better use of EU aid and use it, and one of the essential elements is, of course, compliance with the application deadlines and making decisions to be able to apply for it. With regard to this Turku railway project and Espoo’s urban track, the urban railway would be ready to start, if only a decision is made about it. Of course, there is also a need for state money for this, and that is why it is also important to deal with EU aid issues in time. Other major road projects: for example, there are thousands of cars on Ring Three a day, where the road sinks at Askisto and there is a risk that it will collapse, so wish money had been found in this amending budget. I have asked the Minister for Transport a written question about it and have not yet received an answer. I hope you find the money for that too. What is more, I would have liked this amending budget to have taken account of the quality registers, while the government in its government programme wants to lead with information, and all decisions should be based on knowledge. Now there is no funding for these national quality registers, there is no further funding, and if we look at the progress of social change and sound equality, then the money should be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u146	Madam President! The Board of Directors' proposal for the fourth amending budget for 2019 is therefore under discussion. There is mention here of the equality prize, and Mr Ikonen, you also raised this issue: we just heard the tax information yesterday, and from there we noticed that those top roaders are those men. Let us do this sort of act of equality and encourage our daughters there too in our homes to participate and study more of those natural sciences — mathematics, physics, chemistry — so that they can also go to these jobs, to entrepreneurship and opportunities, and so that in the future women will be found in the tax records. This was discussed a lot yesterday, and I think we have a lot to do about it. Girls are one of those tenacious students, they do well and write well in the matriculation exams, but something happens somewhere, because that's where it often ends. But, Madam President, this was my position on this prize for equality. EUR 300000 will be allocated to it here. I would like to highlight a few themes from this amending budget, including this social welfare reform, where 11.2 million more funding is being allocated, and some of this funding goes to information management and information systems. It is very important that we should be informed in Parliament about the way in which the war is progressing, so that the same thing that happened in the last period does not happen again. When it has been discussed here that we have been crammed in the swamp, I also feel that it was only just there, and now it is very important that the same mistakes should not be made again. There was freedom of choice and regional reform and it was not known which party and which party drove what. But it is important to get the basic services in order. It is very important for Finns to have access to a doctor, but we are concerned that the government's actions on this matter are inadequate. 70 million projects and grants to put the social centres in order are not enough. Uusimaa is already such a vast area that improving access to a doctor here requires prompt action. But, really, this whole social thing. Well, then, I think it is very important and important that a national cancer centre has finally been established in Finland. In 2014, I put a written question on this and many budget initiatives too, and it is great that this has progressed. It should be a common will for all of us to bend the cancer, overcome it, channel as much resources as possible into research, treatments and the fact that more and more Finns are healing from this curse called cancer. It is possible, and we have excellence. Thank you for the resources that have been provided over all these years by the government. It is great that resources are being allocated to Kuopio, thanks also to the crisis work that is needed there, and I would also have liked to have heard what else there is. It is currently in Kuopio. Well, then this psychiatric treatment and mental health services in Finland: at the moment, the biggest challenge is that basic mental health services are not in operation either for children, young people or adults. And I am also concerned about the adequacy of institutional care in Finland for these psychiatric problems, and I am concerned about whether or not I can get treatment there. Here in the administrative section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, it is reported that an increase of EUR 500000 will be granted in relation to ‘the cost of mental carein the absence of a municipality of residence in Finland, and no other legislation on healthcarepayer’. So this entry means that those residing illegally or on paper in a country who have no status here in Finland, no municipality of residence, are entitled to non-voluntary psychiatric treatment and are paid for by our state. I tried to ask the Minister about this, but I understand that Mr Kiuru was not there, so we did not get an answer. This issue of these costs has been raised in committee in the past when we have dealt with the legislation, the way in which the costs will ultimately be shared: will they be borne by Finland or will Finland or Kela then apply from one of the countries of origin for payment of these costs? It would be good to have a debate on this too and to consider how this really is. We heard here that in 2008 there was the last surplus budget, when the services were held, and from then on the debt left. We heard that we have all been there in the government; I can tell you that we Finns are the least of all. Actually, our place would now be in that government, as we are currently the most popular party in Finland. But these are going on this time, and we hope that the government makes good decisions, that we do not over-indebtedness and prioritize. And you all know what the Finns would prioritise about if there was a chance. But we can talk: services for Finns and everyone who needs them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u147	Madam President! I'll be back on the fast trains. Minister Marin has stated that the intention is for the unestablished design companies to participate in an open and closed search for the European Commission's Connecting Europe programme in February. It is good that Minister Marin finally came to the line of the coalition in the need for project companies, but it took too long. Due to the government's delay, companies do not yet exist. The first meeting for their establishment was today, although the start of negotiations has been announced for two months now. Contrary to what the Minister suggests here, it is quite likely that the project companies will not be able to make the current search. That's why I'm asking the Minister for a backup plan. Should the government’s delay in filling in the current search plan be accompanied by a contingency plan, i.e., as the state normally participates in such searches, i.e. that the Fairway Office applies? Is this what we're about to do? Is that really necessary? It is now in a very strange light that the project companies and their funding were already well advanced after the previous government and that this government was now delaying for no reason. There is still a lack of a timetable of objectives and clear steps, although it is good that the ideological spectacles for the project companies were now thrown into the corner. Madam President! The alternative budget for the Coalition Party will include updated tax and employment measures. For once, the opposition party’s alternative budget is more responsible than the government’s. This government has already managed, in its brief history, to increase its debt in the billions. The amending budget before us sums up the additional debt. The places where more money is put are, in itself, worthy, very good and important. The problem is that when employment measures from the government shine with their absence, the present government will cut off future generations. The Coalition Party doesn't want to operate. That is why we will be presenting comprehensive employment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u148	Mr President! I cannot help but say that I remember well four years ago, when the previous government started, the government made an amending budget, too, and we in the opposition then wondered how it could begin with the fact that there were employment measures, guess how many, Mr Vikman and the partners — there were zero, quite a round zero. [Sofia Vikman’s interlude] But I, the President, understand that, of course, the coalition is now seeking a new opposition role. And perhaps we will also understand that this message is still a little unclear for the time being and we do not quite understand yet how the coalition of this equation is going to be built, but perhaps with particular interest we are waiting for this alternative budget and we very much hope that it will not, at least under the guise of dynamic effects, close this impossible equation in itself. But, as I have said, I think it is very good that this has been started on a number of points. Here, too, many details have been commended. It is a great thing to be able to intervene quickly in this Kuopio area, and there are also many other important issues that are once again being discussed in this amending budget. As I understand it, there is little against them, but there is more to it than this general line once again, and in this respect I must say, as a Pirkanman, that when the government changed, I am satisfied, that there has been a great deal of joy in our area in terms of both road three and road nine and rail, so that it is nice in this respect that the line has changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u151	Madam President! Here, many of my fellow Members have also praised the content of this additional budget. At the very beginning, I would like to say that there are also a lot of eligible items in the additional budget. To the Minister of Transport, Mr Marin, I would like to wish him every success and energy in moving these major transport projects forward. I don't think we can get a big fight out of it in this room. Of course, we want a lot, a lot of speed, and we hope to see results soon. However, Madam President, what we have discussed in this Chamber today concerns the economic policy of this government. We have had a debate with Mr Viitane and he said that this government has changed the direction of economic policy. I told him it certainly is. This government has completely abandoned the good heritage of Juha Sipilä's government. When Juha Sipilä's Board of Directors began its work in 2015, EUR 6 billion of debt was raised in Finland, unemployment was high, the outlook was very bad. That government put this country's economy in order. More and more Finns had the hope that they would get to work, that their livelihoods would improve. Tax revenue grew rapidly, debt-taking decreased rapidly. Mr President! This government could have continued along this same, responsible line: to put this country's economy in order and to ensure that future generations do not face excessive tax and debt burdens. But, as I said earlier, this government has chosen instead the path of debt-taking, the way of increasing permanent expenditure increases. And, as we have already talked about, employment measures are shining completely in the absence of this government's programme. After the budget debate, the government told us that they had a list of 25 items in place. Several ministers told us in this Chamber that this has happened. However, following a small examination, it emerged that the Ministry of Finance is unable to calculate the positive employment impact of any employment activity. At the same time, in its opinion on the 2020 budget, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council has also very critically commented on the government’s economic policy, next year’s budget, by stating that ‘no measures have been presented to achieve the employment rate target’. This is a very direct and critical text from experts, which you must now humbly accept and act accordingly. On the contrary, it is estimated that government action will have a negative impact on employment, given what you are now doing. So it is the case that the employment situation in Finland would be better if you had done nothing at all. In addition to this, you have also decided, as we have already discussed here, to hand over the power of decision to prepare for the trialogue. Now you're holding your hands together and hoping for results. You do not have to be a great fortune teller to say that this is not how they should work. You must have the courage to take the employment measures yourself in order to get the Finnish economy in order and people who are not working get to work. You are now in the government, we are in the opposition. It is up to you now to shoulder the responsibility that you have been given. But in this direction, Mr President, we will not go all the way to the finish line. Mr President! I believe that we Members of Parliament in this Chamber share the concern that too many people are unemployed in Finland. I also believe that all of us in the various parties also believe that the economy of this country will not be made right without effective employment measures. We have put forward our own employment measures to create tens of thousands of new jobs in this country. They include, among other things, extending local agreement, raising the enforcement component, reducing early childhood education fees, a few measures to mention now. We have also offered these measures to the government even before the budget debate, so that the government could seize them, take decisions, so that we can see the results as soon as possible. However, although Mr Viitanen is trying to justify this otherwise here, we still do not understand why this government does not take decisions immediately. Why are you waiting for next year so we can see what's coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u152	Let's go to the list of speakers. There are quite a few speeches here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u153	Mr President! There are several speakers here today who have asked for the direction of the Coalition Party in terms of indebtedness, taxation and investment. I would say very closely that for us it is the sustainability of solutions, both economic, social and ecological. In line with the fall in labour taxation, for example, harmful taxes can be increased, i.e. there is a sense of compensation behind these solutions, which we have proposed. Moreover, moderate taxation can be seen to have positive effects on economic dynamics, and thus we saw that it was justified. We have suggested that investment money should be directed towards the right investments, such as higher education capitalisation and fast rail connections. Employment measures would be the top priority in all policy areas. That is something we have specifically asked about in this government. I think Mr Viitanen was asking how we would solve the employment challenges. In August, we have published a list of employment measures in paragraph 16 which can generate more jobs. That's a list you can use. Similarly, in the alternative budget we are still making further clarifications to this whole. There's plenty of screens here, but there's plenty of screens. The previous government created 140,000 jobs. I also hope that the present government will be successful in bringing this objective forward. Here are some withdrawals from how the coalition would take this equation forward. As we look after the basis of the economy, this will also enable us to make important investments in the well - being of people. Thank you also to Minister Marin for these reports on high-speed rail connections and project companies. Here we heard today an important promise to move ahead quickly, and now we really expect this preparation to move forward quickly in order to be able to participate in the EU financial round. Six months has already been wasted and we now hope that these promises will move forward quickly. In my previous speech, I have already raised the issue of emergency aid to the local government, which is part of this amending budget, now that the local government economy is suffering both from the arrhythmia caused by tax accounts and from a serious problem of sustainability, but with this solution this difficult situation will not yet be resolved in its entirety, this is only a first aid measure. I am also pleased to see the continuation of the international prize for equality that we have produced a few years ago, as already mentioned in my previous speech. I would also like to express my thanks for the efforts made in the field of safety and after-care of the Kuopio tragedy. They are important and justified additions. Mr Government, while you are still building the foundations of the economy in order to be able to thank you for sustainable economic policy, there would be a different starting point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u154	Madam President! Mr Ikonen and Mr Marttinen spoke very well about the sustainability of the economy and the objectives of the coalition in this regard, but I still want to see the representative I have appreciated. Perhaps the reference has some background in why the opposition is now so concerned about the lack of these government employment measures. When Sipilä's government started, the expectations of turning the direction of Finland's economy were very high. Finland had lived in a difficult recession, a lot of debt had to be owed to public finances, and government aid was also sought in order to improve employment. At that time, business and Finnish people broadly believed that the government was going to succeed in its work, and this was the case: more than 140,000 new jobs were created in the country, and this has also created sustainability and room for manoeuvre in public finances. In that sense, the Coalition Party and the Centre Party and the Basic Finns in the government did good work. Well, Mr President, when you ask a question about companies — Yle had only a big piece of news on how the Entrepreneurship Panel of the Confederation of Finnish Industries assessed the situation — the companies do not trust the Rinte government’s ability to create new jobs and to meet the objectives it has set themselves. Four out of five entrepreneurs who answered the questionnaire do not believe in the government's ability to promote employment. In addition, almost 90% of respondents suspect that the government will not achieve its objective of improving employment — and this is Yle’s announcement of this EK Entrepreneur Panel. So, Mrs Viitanen, that is the big difference in expectations, and that is why the government should now be able to put forward concrete measures immediately, so that Finnish industry and Finnish small and medium-sized entrepreneurs do not have to draw the conclusions that the government does not even intend to take action. Unfortunately, confidence is not very high at the moment. Mr President! I would also like to clarify that, when the representatives of skilled sportsmen and the chairmen of their parliamentary groups, Mr Lindtman and Mr Arhinmäki, skilfully continued this comparison of navigation, then indeed this year's track, on the map, the ticks have been set so that the debt was set at 1.4 billion, but the Rinte government has increased its debt-taking by 2.4 billion with its own amending budgets. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group] In this respect, Mr President, I would like to stress the need to create a climate in which new jobs, especially in the open sector, private investment, can be created in Finland. Well, these investments are being created in Finland, for example in the forest industry, where Metsä Group is planning a major pulp mill, biorefinery project in Kemi. And in this respect, I am surprised that, even in this amending budget, more money is available for all good targets, so why can't we find more money for Number Four? The four-way linking the whole of Finland from Helsinki to Utsjoki is the main route of our business life, and for Maksniemi, it would take a few million additional funds to complete the renovation of the Oulu-Kemi interval. This cannot be found in that amending budget, and I wonder because it is of enormous importance not only for local people but also for the Finnish industry. Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for Transport, Mr Marin, for telling me that he knows this problem and that he intends to bring solutions to this issue, but I would like to call for it to be a matter of rapid progress. Madam President! The Minister for the Interior, Mr Ohio, has already left, but I too could have proposed real future investments such as additional funding for Customs, such as the operations of Air Customs or Customs in the north, Tornio. These could prevent the entry of drugs, and if this problem were eradicated, it would be possible to save very considerable costs in social and health care, as well as in the budgets of the safety authorities and the judiciary. In this sense, I would encourage the Minister for the Interior to be a little more perky in his own administrative field and to invest in sensible expenditure increases that turn into savings for the national economy, for example, by eliminating the drug problem by investing in Air Customs and Customs, for example, in that Tornio.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u155	Mr President! Perhaps it is good to start by recalling that we are talking about the last few months of this year, not the whole world. But now that this big debate has been opened, let's have this big conversation right to the end. It was noted here that 2008 has been the last year of surplus in Finland instead of deficit, and it tells a lot about world development. Ten years ago, it has been expected that Finland will be affected by the ageing of the population, the uncertainty of the international economy and inequality, and in fact, since then, the international situation has become more difficult than easier. If someone had come in 2008 to say that the world's largest economy will be led by a reality TV star who will start trade wars and real crises and conflicts on Twitter, then I would not have believed it myself. This tells us a lot about how difficult it is to anticipate the development of the world and everything that affects the Finnish economy. This also tells us a lot about how important it is to strengthen international cooperation and to ensure that we are really a bigger player in international fields. This also reminds us how important it is that, first of all, we, as a state, are prepared for the worst of all but at the same time give every Finn – especially children and young people – the opportunity to act in a rapidly changing world. That is our most important responsibility and task. That is why the main objective of this government is to make Finland the first carbon-neutral welfare state in the world by 2035. That is why we are also investing in education and research and we are really making sure that everyone has the knowledge that is needed in a changing world. However, the difficulty arises from the fact that the impact of such measures on employment, for example, is very difficult to assess. Foreseeing becomes really difficult when one should understand such a complex, ever - changing world. The world cannot be micromodelled; instead, a more diverse assessment is needed: empirical studies, international examples, experiments and numerous other sources of information that can be combined to identify the best possible situation in this country in 10 years' time. Mr VATT has made it very clear during the hearings of the Committee on Finance that action must also be taken which is difficult to micromodel. There is a huge number of measures affecting employment, the economy and, above all, the knowledge and future of children and young people, the effects of which cannot be micro-modelled. The narrowness of models cannot therefore mean giving up good action. On the basis of empirical research, including the OECD study, we know that early childhood education, other education and preventive welfare are the most effective employment measures. Can the impact of such measures be reduced? When you go to the Ministry of Finance and ask them to calculate how much investment in mental health services will increase employment over the next 10 years, there is no way they can calculate it, because it is a hugely complex and complex issue that cannot be micromodelled. However, this does not mean that mental health problems are the main cause of disability. We also know what measures can be taken to address mental health problems and we know that when disability decreases, employment will increase. In other words, on the basis of a very short, logical line of reasoning and empirical research, we know that it is worth investing in mental health services, for example, we know that it is an employment measure. It is therefore a huge disappointment to come to this Chamber and to hear that such investments, for example, are not employment measures. It's like this doesn't matter, because it can't be micromodeled. That is why I wanted to remind you how much more complex the reality is than these economic models, and that is what the economists in committee have reminded us of. They know where the boundaries of their models are. In short, it must also be said that when we talk about the sustainability of the economy and, above all, the sustainability of the welfare state, we should also talk about taxation. It is estimated that, just after the last year in surplus, we have lost as much as EUR 1 billion in tax revenue due to tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. It makes about 100 million losses on an annual basis. If it were all put in Finnish knowledge and well-being, we would certainly be in a different situation now. That is why it is good that we are doing exactly as Minister Lintilä has pointed out here, that we are trying to strengthen international cooperation, strengthen the exchange of information. It was today that we discussed in committee how to ask more closely and see where the money is going: whether we are trying to transfer the money where it is less taxed, whether we are trying to avoid the responsibilities of honest entrepreneurs, honest Finns who pay their taxes with honor, in that race. And this direction must be strengthened so that we can ensure that we continue to raise taxes in a sustainable way, so that we can really invest in the future, in knowledge, in well-being, so that we can ensure that in future more and more Finns will be able to work and, above all, be able to pursue their own dreams. These measures need to move forward, even though the impact of these measures is difficult to match. It is necessary to identify the boundaries of different models and to combine different sources of information rather than rely too much on what can be obtained from one narrow model. This is how to build the best Finland for all. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u156	Madam President! It is a great thing that the amending budget before us has proposed an increase in resources for advice and support for small businesses. An increase of EUR 290000 in legal employment advice for small enterprises will facilitate the success of a large number of hard-working entrepreneurs in their work, improve the position of their employees and strengthen the entrepreneurial spirit of society. In particular, the need for information and advice on employment matters for sole entrepreneurs and small enterprises is important. This highlights the need for English advice in particular, but also in other languages if necessary. The entrepreneur field has received feedback on the need for employee counselling. The service will increase cooperation between employers and employees. The aim is to lower the threshold for employment in enterprises and to create jobs for more Finns. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Kulmun, deserves special thanks for this effort. Mr President! In addition to employee counselling, an additional allocation of EUR 5.8 million should be taken into account for the Finnish Immigration Service. Of this EUR 4.7 million will be allocated to the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service and 1.1 million to the ict systems. Additional funding will ensure the smooth functioning of the Agency and prevent threatened layoffs. This will ensure that the processing of permits issued by the Finnish Immigration Service will not slow down at the end of the current year, but will enable the dismantling of queues for both work-related immigration and asylum processing to continue. It is wiser to contribute to the progress of each case before us than to maintain a situation in which too many people who are waiting to deal with their case are frustrated at the reception centre or the company is deprived of the workers they need. This is going to cost a lot of money. Thank you in particular to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Ohio, for this additional funding. We hope that this proposal will also have to be supported by the Finnish Parliament Group, because I am sure you will also support the fact that asylum applications will be processed as quickly as possible. [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u157	Mr President! The direction of economic policy has changed and seems to be an abomination to the current opposition. This government does not cut or swing the whip for the unemployed, which is why the opposition seems to be continuing with its already familiar complaint that employment measures are inadequate. However, this government has already invested additional funding in vocational training and transport projects in June. Both are very important measures to promote employment. This additional economic assessment also includes, among other things, more advice on the employment relationship of companies. More new employment measures will be expected at the beginning of 2020 when the first actual budget of the current government comes into force. After all, we are only now discussing the supplementary amending budget prepared by the previous government for 2019. It has become quite clear during this debate that no employment measure will, however, be sufficient for the assembly, because it will not involve a reduction in social security. This fourth draft amending budget for 2019 provides for an increase of EUR 95 million in appropriations and an increase of EUR 114 million in revenue. The fourth amending budget also reduces net borrowing by EUR 19 million. The amending budget includes a number of important and worthwhile issues, including EUR 2.7 million for securing the functioning of the Emergency Response Centre System, EUR 4.7 million for securing the functioning of the Finnish Immigration Service and EUR 1.1 million for the Agency's necessary ict expenditure. I would also like to point out that additional funding is proposed for the planning costs of the small stage of the National Theatre, and an increase of just under EUR 1 million is also proposed in the operating costs of the National Archives to ensure the conditions for basic activities. In addition, EUR 300000 is also proposed for the International Equality Prize. Mr President! I would like to make one very important point about this amending budget. Kuopio, 1.10. an increase of EUR 1 million is proposed in support of the follow-up to the violent attack. Of the increase, EUR 0.4 million will be allocated to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture and EUR 0.6 million to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The aim of the proposed additional allocation is to ensure that all those whose lives have been traumatised by tragedy receive the necessary psychosocial support and appropriate care. The aim is to restore balance and maintain the ability to work and function at individual, family and community level. The additional funding proposed makes it possible to: In Kuopio, education continues smoothly and the situation could normalise. Additional funding will include recruiting professionals responsible for psychological support, ensuring adequate services for study and occupational health care, and increasing teaching staff and instructors. This post-care is very important to support children and young people as well as school staff, and I would like to thank the government very much for this promptness. It must have been in the minds of many in a hurry, and for that I thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u158	Mr President! In its general session on 19 September, the Government has decided on the acquisition of new naval battleships. In the past, a total of EUR 1.23 billion has already been allocated to the fleet 2020 project. In its decision in September, the Government has approved a cost overrun of nearly EUR 100 million. According to the decision, the total cost of the fleet 2020 project, excluding expenditure arising from index and exchange rate changes, is EUR 1.3 billion, and now the necessary additional money, or these additional funds, as decided by the Government, will be allocated in this fourth amending budget for 2019. This procurement decision concerns four large North-South combatships with combat systems. During the preparation of the fleet 2020 project, it has been suggested that the four warships to be acquired would belong to the corvette class. There has been talk, among other things, of the Korvets and Multipurpose Korvets of the Ostrobothnia class. However, according to the Ministry of Defence’s own rucksacks, the corvettes are vessels with a depth of between 600 and 3000 tonnes, ranging from 2500 to 6000 tonnes. Controversial information has been provided on the size of the vessels and therefore on their intended use, which tends to obscure the idea of what is actually being acquired. In other words, these North-South vessels are 3900 tonnes, i.e. they clearly belong to the frigate class and not to the corvettes. During this project, the length of vessels has increased from the 2015 ship concept from about 90 metres to 114 metres now entering this procurement phase. The ships will be one of the largest in the Baltic Sea, including Sweden's main surface fighting vessels, i.e. the Visby class, many times larger. So, Mr President, we can rightly question the suitability of these future North-South frigates to defend Finnish mazed and island waters and coastal areas. Indeed, the increased size of vessels is justified by the Ministry of Defence's need to be able to operate on a long-term basis without the protection of the archipelago. Finland has carried out research on new warships together with the United States. The new North-South ships are about the same length and depth as the United States Freedom class battleships. The sightings published by the Ministry of Defence on the Ostrobothnian vessels are also mistakenly similar to US Freedom class ships. Mr President! In the light of this information and against the background of the current trend in Finland's foreign and security policy, there is a suspicion that these new battleships are intended to take part in the international missions assigned by the United States and NATO in the world's seas — more than to defend Finland's coastal and maritime areas. In that sense, Mr President, I do question such an increase of EUR 100 million in this acquisition. It seems obvious that this is due to the increased size of the vessels, from which, in 2015, when the project has been put forward, there has been no clear idea. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u159	Mr President! The government should not always be insulted by the opposition, but should also be praised when the government is on a good and right path. At least it was self-warming that this government is now putting $1.4 billion into basic bus maintenance, which is exactly the same amount that was put into basic bus maintenance last year. In other words, it is good that the government has not gone down from this, because it would then have made it difficult for industry to provide wood and many other activities, especially in rural areas. Minister Marin is no longer in this Chamber. He spoke of high-speed rail connections: the Turku hour train and the main track of the country. They are very important, and it is not for any Member of Parliament to go against good projects, because in the future work will be more time and place-independent. However, on several occasions, Minister Marin has left either inadvertently or otherwise the fast east tracks there in the final part of the speech, and they are, as it were, sometimes reprehensible and possibly feasible. At least the previous government and a number of parties before the elections felt that it was absolutely necessary to implement the fast east lines. And I hope that the fast east tracks will then go alongside the Turku hour train and the main railway line of the country, because if Eastern Finland were once again to miss out on these fast connections, it would be quite a setback for Eastern Finland, which is already in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u160	Mr President! Here we have had a wide-ranging debate on this fourth draft amending budget and also on the actions of the government, and perhaps employment policy in particular. It is a pleasure to note that the government is engaged in a wide range of targeted and active employment policies, which is also reflected in this amending budget. It also shows that time is different and different measures are needed to create work and livelihood throughout Finland. Different types of employment measures are needed. It is very important for the city centre that we create work and livelihood throughout the country. This year, the economic and employment situation has been so favourable that this amending budget will be able to reduce the estimated budget for several social security benefits for the current year. For example, it is proposed to reduce the total amount of unemployment benefit to central government contributions by EUR 80 million. This development must continue, and work must be done on it. We also know, as this amending budget states, that the uncertainty of the world economy seems to be continuing and even deepening. It is very good that the government is now proposing an additional amount of EUR 290000 for company employment advice. This is an important message for our companies that they will listen to them. This need for employment advice has come precisely from the companies, small companies, which wish to do so. In this way, the Government wants to strengthen the vision of hope that it is worth trying in Finland, and the Government wants to support our business life in every way and in various ways. Support for business life is therefore so important that new jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises. The aim is that the threshold for employment should be even lower, and it is extremely important that we now ensure that this employment advice is available throughout Finland. Now we have a very bright outlook for employment too, we have a lot of job vacancies. Now all we have to do is get businesses and workers to meet, unemployed, capable people to work, and that is how we create well-being and strengthen the state economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u161	Mr President! In the fourth amending budget, technical and additional changes have been discussed and, in everyone's view, good, minor corrections and important issues. We all agree on them. In addition to that, these major bus projects, which are now starting to move, have been hailed here. However, these fairway projects contain a number of very important issues. The funding of the fairway projects is in the hands of the Lord. I asked the question — Minister Lintilä replied — which was precisely about the role of the municipalities in the financing of these major bus projects. If the municipalities are to be involved in financing these projects, this funding will go further than before. Indeed, funding for large bus projects is being put on the back of municipalities by changing the Municipal Guarantee Centre Act and by enabling large municipal funding and guarantees for these projects. Of course, this is not possible. The planning phase that has now been discussed and the various negotiations on the project companies will already be the first test. If municipalities pay for planning by capitalising project companies, will they ever see any return on their investments? The capital is in the company and remains. We don't know anything about this. Construction, which will be something quite different in scale again, is a whole new issue, even more so, especially in this situation when the government is seeking to balance public finances. Peeaa municipalities can't invest hundreds of millions of dollars just like that. If the construction is financed by a debt taken by the project company, any operating charges or other charges will first go to the company's operating expenses, interest, repayments. It is in the hands of the Lord once again whether the capitalised companies will ever receive any dividends or other. The situation is therefore extremely critical. The Government Programme contains a reference to this Municipal Guarantee Centre Act, and if changes are introduced, the provisions of Article 189 of the Municipal Act are also put at risk, according to which the municipality must not jeopardise its ability to assume the tasks provided for by the Act or to take a significant financial risk. If the Municipal Guarantee Centre Act is amended, this risk will be realised. In order to finance these vital transport projects, we must be open to various forms of funding, including private money. Of course, private individuals must not fool taxpayers, nor must they become such a syphilis phenomenon, and in this financial situation we must consider better contract competence, project competence, procurement competence and also try to make money other than public money available to finance these investments. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u162	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Marin for the information given at the debat concerning the hour train. I would have liked to continue the debate with the Minister, but unfortunately he has already left. I believe that the information will be passed on to the Minister through this too. The fourth budget has highlighted the issue of project companies. However, the main challenge for transport projects is a new EU application round starting at the end of the current search for tails, with the highest absolute amount of money available. We are talking about half a billion euros. The amounts for the rest of the year are considerably lower, hundreds of millions of euros lower. In the debate earlier today, Minister Marin said that the first thing to do is to plan for a construction decision to be taken. I fully agree with him, but this section of the Espoo urban railway is already complete, as I said earlier. The plans are completely complete, only the construction decision is missing. The People's Party in Southwest Finland has asked the Government to react. I'm asking you to think about it. If we do not take a construction decision soon, we will not be able to get these hundreds of millions into the project, and then the project will move into a future and face competition with other projects where planning is less advanced and where there will be fewer and fewer EU-based transport projects available in later years. Mr President! Unfortunately, these major transport projects for working people are moving like a commuter train in the morning rushes, even though they are supposed to work like a train’s toilet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u163	Mr President! I, too, would like to ask a few questions about these project companies. I am certainly not against these high-speed rail links. I myself live in Salo, and I can tell you that the one-hour train project is there at a very hot potato at the moment. I would like to know the funding of this project company. For example, the city of Salo will do, as many other municipalities in Finland will do, an extremely long down this year, so how will these municipalities start to finance this job — do we owe it to the project company to be implemented? So I just wanted to ask you about this. Unfortunately, Secretary Marin was able to leave. What if the municipalities along this railway line refuse to join the project company, what happens then? That would have been my question to the Minister, but unfortunately he has already left. That's all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u164	Mr President! When it comes to these infrastructure projects, one must always wonder where the real reality is, when my reality is that the infrastructure needs to be renovated, there are speed limits, there are disruptions in traffic, and now, instead of repairing the network by a billion, there are many billions of new projects. Where is the money for these projects, I have often wondered in this connection. In general, this amending budget involves a great deal of expenditure. It is easy to present expenditure and it is difficult to resist it. There's no such thing as a politician who doesn't know how to make up expenses and spend money, but then there's the problem when you have to make that money. The government does not seem to have the means to tell us where the money will be taken from, because it should come from work, but the government does not propose any means of improving employment. It must be borne in mind that all this debt-driven budget funding, which is now being proposed in this amending budget, is based on unrealistic employment calculations, which will not even be carried out in the event of a favourable economic development — let alone an unfavourable development. The second is that both the government and the opposition party are now confusing the additional money that has been put forward to the Finnish Immigration Service for employment. Labour immigration, even if we really believe it would come to Finland, is not the solution to the employment problems of Finns. There's something completely different about it. The employment of Finns is not improved by the fact that work-related immigrants come to Finland, no matter how hard they work and are not actually immigrants who move to Finland for social security, who only come to work for a period of time to be covered by social security, as is often the case in practice. There's no shortage of labour. There's a shortage of cheap labour. But under no circumstances will the employment of Finns be improved. Of course, money could be given to the Finnish Immigration Service as such if money were spent on, for example, keeping dangerous returnees in custody without endangering the safety of staff and, in general, increasing resources could be made available for the return of thousands of those who have received negative asylum decisions illegally in the country. You could put money into that kind of thing for the Immigration Service.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u165	Mr President! I have tried to follow up this debate on the amending budget, and in particular I have drawn attention to some kind of inconsistency on the part of the representatives of the Group of the European People's Party which does not want to be opened up to me. This brings to mind, in particular, the speeches made here by Mr Heinonen and Mr Autto, among others. After all, Mr Heinonen's very heavy speech listed all the points in the amending budget that are sensible, meaningful and the government has cleverly considered these priorities which have been included in this amending budget — not criticism of these projects themselves. The criticism came from how it was financed. It remained completely in the air, what Mr Heinonen would like to do in this situation, how it would be financed, when, as he said, this cannot be done with debt money, as he said. He used the term, or did Mr Autto use the term that this is done at the expense of children. Representative However, Mr Heinonen's proposal, which was therefore a positive proposal for the government's draft amending budget, was invented by Mr Helpto, who should have received additional funding. When I listened carefully to its representative, Carinthia, I merely wondered whether this funding for the Four would have to be made at the expense of the children. The project itself may be very worthwhile and sensible, I do not take a position on it, but what is your logical answer? How will it be financed if there is no other point here that could be financed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u166	Mr President! The Government intends to increase money to the Finnish Immigration Service in order to reduce processing times for residence permit applications. Today, the Green Left and, in fact, the Green Centre have been littering the Finns of Finland quite a bit in this budget debate by saying, is it not enough for you: is it not good now that the processing times are shorter and the people who will not be granted a residence permit will then be able to get out of the country more quickly? This is fine for us, this is fine for us. What we want is for these deadlines to be reduced, but at the same time we must ask why, for example, you are raising the number of quota refugees and are not prepared to constrain this free humanitarian immigration, as far as Sweden is concerned, or to make legislation that could constrain it. On the other hand, such arguments were raised as that the employment rate of foreigners would be higher than that of Finns. So this makes no sense to treat immigration as something like this as one package. It cannot be said that way, even when it comes to Finns. After all, most Finns work. We still have to focus on that segment and talk about the segment that is not working and what the reasons are. The same is true, for example, with regard to immigration. We appreciate the immigration of high-skilled people and the special experts who come here, who are going to create new jobs, and Finns are also coming to work, but when we talk about such things as humanitarian immigration or people who come to low-paid sectors, it can be seen that even if they work for a few years, then very soon we will be left to those social support. Therefore, this is the group that needs to be focused on, and I have to say that no, they are not useful to public finances and such immigration to Finland is not worth taking. As far as these government resources are concerned, so that they can be obtained more quickly than those residence permits, I think that it is absolutely essential that we get a decision for these specialist experts more quickly. However, Finland absolutely needs these types, and we have absolutely nothing against them. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u167	Mr President! Of course, as a master of speech, Mr Kiljunen, an experienced and well-known representative, can very well confuse the fact that it is the Rinte government that has this year, with its own amending budgets, increased its debt by EUR 1 billion. And it does not change the fact that you are skilfully rolling it around here as a rhetorical means for us, whether it is to do with our children's tabs or whether it is reckless borrowing. With these supplementary budgets of the Rinte Government, Finland will be in debt by one billion more than was estimated at the time this year's budget was made. No one has denied that these expenditure items are certainly all necessary and important, Mr President. And just as Mr Kiljunen, from my speech there, was able to take note of this important renovation of the Four Roads at Maksniemi, there should also be other real future contributions that are currently lacking there. Mr President! The main difference between the government and the opposition is that the government has not presented any employment measures to ensure that the economy is growing, so that the state economy has a sustainable base on which to build these additional expenditures and also to finance the necessary investments. On the opposition side, in particular, the Coalition Party has brought some very concrete proposals to this debate throughout the summer, and we certainly hope that the Government will also introduce these solutions presented by the Coalition Party. We're not jealous of them in any way. So this, Mr President, is the central difference between the government and the opposition in this debate. But again, Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to say to Mr Yrttiaho, whose interesting and expert speech certainly gave rise to many ideas, that defence is, of course, an extremely important issue for us in Finland. We put a lot of money into it. The fleet 2020 project shows that we will also be looking after Finland's defence in the future. In my opinion, we should always strive to make the necessity a virtue, that is to say, when we safeguard Finnish trade shipping even in crisis situations and create the readiness to defend Finland from the sea as well, so that when we do this through investment in the domestic defence industry, we also create opportunities for the Finnish defence industry to make successful export trade in the future. Thus, our necessary investments in our own security can also be a success for our business life in the future. That is why you see that ships are like them, that they may also have international use, is certainly not a false observation, but I believe that this is what we make a wise, far-reaching decision and that we make a need for virtue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u168	We're almost out of 2.5 hours in this order. I will give you one more real speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u169	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen said earlier that the means of promoting employment in the Assembly are linked to cutting off the unemployed. Let us return first to these fundamental issues, which we have already discussed here with Mr Kiljunen before, because I have not yet received any response from the government's ranks to these questions which we have raised here together with colleagues. Firstly, there is the fact that this government is completely lacking in employment measures. It's a fact. You can't escape it. It has been pointed out here that this government has made the employment list in paragraph 25 — it is a pity that the list cannot be assessed with any positive effect on employment. What are employment measures that do not bring any new jobs into this country? At the same time, according to estimates and studies, other measures taken by this government will reduce employment, thus reducing employment. That is, that this government has done nothing, [Quick Five] Mr President! We have offered the government our own option, which we have already presented in August. We have provided the means by which this government can pursue the 60,000 increase in the number of new employees. This has been at your disposal even before the budget debate. You have already had the opportunity to make decisions, but you have already passed that opportunity and ignored it. Now we are looking forward to what will happen after the first six months. No decisions have yet been taken. The preparation of the decision has been postponed to three levels and, as I said before, I am not very optimistic that, after this process, decisions will be taken in this country to create 60,000 new jobs. But, Mr President, we are waiting for what the government will do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u170	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings and, where appropriate, the comments shall be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u171	We will now resume the debate on item 7 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u172	Mr President! There was talk of an over-budgeted fleet 2020 project. The cost of this project has risen from 1.2 billion to 1.3 billion at this stage of procurement, i.e. by around EUR 100 million. I raised this up and criticised this, and when representatives from that point of view, Mr Autto and Mr Marttinen, slightly oppono, I would like to reply here, while Mr Autto is still here, to that criticism. There are three points, three problems, as far as these huge arms acquisitions in Finland are concerned. Firstly, the purpose of these weapons in this HX project, i.e. the acquisition of 64 multi-functional fighters, and here Clearly, in the fleet project, in other words, the acquisition of four fregate-size battleships is not primarily about safeguarding Finland’s defence, Finland’s security. They do not seem to fit it in the best possible way. It appears that instructions have been taken from the United States and NATO in relation to these procurements. Of course, I believe that the equipment and armaments of the Defence Forces, or so-called performance, as they say today, must of course be renewed and taken care of, but it must be done in such a way that the weaponry that is acquired is primarily suitable for Finland's defence and Finland's security. The second point is that these purchases are historically expensive. The fleet project will amount to 1.3 billion at this stage and the HX project to 10 billion at this stage, a mere purchase price. After all, the HX project knows that the maintenance costs of these fighters will perhaps be between 30 and 40 billion over their lifetime. These have a significant budgetary impact. In the budgetary plan, defence appropriations will rise from 3.2 billion to EUR 5 billion by 2023. Which other administrative sector accepts such increases in euro amounts? No way. Of course, the economic effects, the spillover effects, are still far-reaching. Of course, Finland is in debt as a result of these acquisitions, and these acquisitions are a source of marginalisation of public expenditure, such as education, well-being, employment. They don't produce anything. They don't produce anything. Most of these Hornet replacements will rest in caves, they will produce nothing. And then there's the third point. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u173	It may take three minutes to speak from that place, but then it can be continued from here — this for information in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u174	Mr President! Representative Yrttiaho opened the debate on this strong increase in defence spending in Finland. After all, in this amending budget we have a small investment in fleets, or even a significant investment. I can recognise Mr Yrttiaho's concern that Finland is very active internationally in promoting disarmament. Finland is very, very strongly placing greater emphasis on global disarmament. In a way, we expect and hope that the various countries will stop this arms race, and now it looks bad, as Mr Yrttiahon put it: Finland itself is not really a model student here, quite the opposite. I recognise the EUR 1.3 billion cost estimate of this fleet purchase in relation to the fact that when we baked this new government here, we had exactly the same amount of extra room for these investments in the development of society. It gave 183 million for pensions, said 100 million for nature conservation, 100 million for development cooperation — this is 1.3 billion. I understand that Mr Yrttiaho is considering this issue. And when we compare defence spending with public goods, at present Finland is at a very reasonable level of 1.4%, but it is now rising very quickly to two and a half per cent, 2.4 per cent — one of the highest shares of national production in armaments in Finland, the European Union and Europe. Of course, like Mr Yrttiaho, we can give some thought to how we are using our resources, what human development, human well-being and so on means to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u175	Madam President! I want my own position to make it very clear that if there is something we do not want to compromise, it is safety. Unlike Mr Yrttiaho, it is precisely the fact that we are investing in the maintenance of the defence that provides security. Of course, it is not the case, as Mr Yrttiaho said, that these procurements are unproductive, but they produce the most valuable commodity for which you cannot lower the price but which has enormous value for society: security, peace in the North, peace in Europe. In this respect, I think it is great that the Government is now investing in this Fleet 2020 project and responding to its needs with sufficient resources. Indeed, I would also like to underline the possibility of these large investments, if we succeed in doing the right thing, for the development of the Finnish defence industry and, consequently, the wider Finnish economy. In other words, it cannot be thought that this money simply moves away from the rest of society, but is channelled through work, livelihood and also through a variety of product development for the benefit of Finnish society and, above all, strengthens the fundamental rock of our society, security on which all other well-being can then be built.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u176	Mr President! There is no point in opening up the result-policy debate here, but just to understand this global security system, which is always better taken into account because security is ultimately common throughout the world. We are already living in a world of weapons of mass destruction. Representative Help is absolutely right — safety is the most important thing. That's the number one thing. What we need to do now is to answer whether these billions of purchases that we make of these furniture, which is now defined here and presented to Parliament, are the most sensible, optimal way of strengthening our security, or whether these billions could be used in an entirely different way. I am not opening the debate now, but I can assure you directly: in every one of the world's 193 countries, where there is a debate on security in parliaments, which is not held, the starting point is this armaments approach to security, and each country is investing more and more in weapons of mass destruction, whose performance is then the highest. In this respect, we are in a spiral, and now, of course, we would have to think about it when we think internationally about what are the ways in which we actually genuinely strengthen security. Armed security is always in trouble because it has a counter-force. Our weapon is a threat to someone else and vice versa. I am not talking about Finnish weapons, but I am talking about these weapons internationally. And that is why we should be able to turn the debate on security policy into a new one. That is why I recognise Mr Yrttiaho's problem, although I do not necessarily agree with his conclusions — I recognise this problem, and I think it is true that we are having this debate seriously, but perhaps not in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u177	Mr President! Very wise words from the representative of the screamer above. But for Mr Auto, there is still a lot of talk about possible industrial cooperation or counter-trades, but, for example, in the context of the Hornet acquisition, there were hardly any counter-trades, even though they were promised a great deal back then in the early 1990s. I fear the same thing will happen with regard to the HX project. Yes, all fighters involved in this competition and their manufacture are so closely controlled by NATO that it does not allow countries outside NATO to pay the bills but, of course, it does. I'm afraid that's an unfortunate fact. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u178	Madam President! Here we now have the subject of the fourth additional budget proposal, and so it seemed that the ordinary budget that was there forgot this in Eastern Finland. Where are these big road projects from Eastern Finland? Where are the other bus projects that Eastern Finland needs? It feels like Eastern Finland is going to stay a little bit like licking its hands here, so I would like the government to invest in that local, regional policy and not forget Eastern Finland either. There are very lively people and lively areas in Eastern Finland too, and they must only be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u179	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u180	Mr President! I think there are four tax bill proposals on tonight's program, where this government bill 62 is the smallest one in the world. So, Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the provisions on the entry into force of the Incomes Information System legislation so that pension and benefit income will not be reported to the Incomes Register until 21 and not as early as the beginning of next year. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the notification procedure is effective and that the development of the Incomes Register can focus on improving the usability of the Incomes Register. There have been various problems with the introduction of the Incomes Register from the beginning of 2019. The deployment has not been as planned and resources have been spent on solving these problems. Resources have thus been used to improve the service and could not be used to expand information content and user interests. The problems associated with the introduction have contributed to the entry in the Government Programme that the problems encountered in the introduction of the Incomes Register will be investigated and corrected in order to facilitate the activities of small entrepreneurs and non-governmental organisations. However, this proposal is not about these facilitations for small operators; it is about them that the government will present a separate government proposal this week. In addition to the postponement of the notification of pension and benefit income, the proposal proposes minor technical changes to the Tax Procedures Act and the Act on the Taxation of Own-initiative Taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u181	Mr President! As the Minister said, it is precisely in this context that this entry into force will be postponed in terms of pension and benefit income. Of course, it makes sense, as the Minister described, that there have been certain problems of introduction and, of course, that they should be put right. But then I'm sure when the problems are in order, it's still a good thing when we get this smoother system working. In that way, of course, the project itself is very positive, as we know from a long time ago. But, Mr President, that is really why I wanted to take the floor here when the Minister, at the end of his speech, referred to the very important point that this is by no means going to be the only change in this respect. In the near future — and it was good to hear that very soon — this next step is coming, which I believe is very important and which responds specifically to the debate and concern of civil society that certain practical difficulties were also encountered with this entry into force, such as that of ordinary NGOs that, if prizes are made, something is being given or, more or less, socks are being given as a reward, so should it also be reported in the register. After all, a rather big debate arose about how this in itself seemed very inappropriate, and it was very important to say here that we will very soon — good for you, Minister, and the government — be able to deal with these shortcomings in this Chamber very soon. I myself have had discussions with many actors in the NGO field, and it has indeed been hoped that these clarifications, improvements, changes will be made to this existing regulation so that the situation becomes clearer and reasonable and there are no such excesses as have sometimes been revealed. That is why I rushed the next stage of this proposal here and wholeheartedly support that we are doing so, and I think it is absolutely good and important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u182	Mr President! In fact, here quite a bit it came to light that when the Incomes Register was created last season, it was quite quick to see that certain minor defects were left there. I myself asked myself a written question last spring on this particular point, to which Minister Lintilä referred, that this proposal for a correction is now coming with regard to these small prizes, which, according to the interpretation, were being called for to be significant. So we are talking about the announcement of agility, Frisbeegolf, shooting and small competitions of this kind, which perhaps collect a small participation fee and then distribute it: 50-year-old to the winner and 20-year-old to the third and so on. I remember the Minister. Lintilä's predecessor, Minister of Finance Orpo, said that this disproportionate situation needs to be changed, and here is a good example of the fact that, even if there is a change of government in the country, such corrections will be made. These certainly do not know the government-opposition limits in themselves, but when it is said that a major reform is going to have a problem with this type of casting, it will be corrected, and here Minister Lintilä has done the right thing. Moreover, from time to time there is also feedback on whether, on the other hand, the costs of these hobbies could also be reduced in taxation. Of course, this type of reflection is often carried out especially in hobbies where the costs are very high, and now these extremely small prizes that came out of it, which in practice do not even have financial value. But thank you, Minister Lintilä, for this proposal and for that correction next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u183	Mr President! First of all, it is very important that lessons have been learnt and found that from the beginning of next year this income register cannot yet be extended to pension and benefit income. But it is very important that we can do so in the future, and this is what we are proposing for the end of the year, namely from 2021 onwards. And why is this particularly important? Because there is a strong will in this house and the government has a strong will to move forward with the reform of social security, and we all know that it would be easier to reconcile labour and social security income better with the same register. This is an issue in the second phase of the Incomes Register, which is now being postponed a little by this government proposal. I say, therefore, that it is good that the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance themselves take this into account. It's been a big project. If I remember correctly, during the last parliamentary term, we first put EUR 24 million in the preparation of the Incomes Register for the key project funding of digitalisation and then we are looking for approximately the same amount of funding. So we have done this for some EUR 50 million, and it is clear that these benefits will not be made available in a moment. But the benefits of such income registers, which we are now doing here, will be seen in the coming years, in the coming decade and in the long run. I also think it is important, as Minister Lintilä has pointed out here, that these small businesses and NGOs and prizes, and the proposal for them, should come here quickly. Since the beginning of this year, all Members of Parliament have received a great deal of feedback. I also greet it with joy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u184	Mr President! A small addition to what I have just said. First of all, the Minister is very fortunate to be commended for this proposal as well as for the future, well done. We all understand the importance of this. It occurred to me that Mr Heinonen was right to talk about the possibilities of engaging in sport in general, and this future measure is one of the measures that will improve the operating conditions for NGOs. I also welcome the fact that a separate budget has been budgeted to promote such a general hobby, so that every person and every young person has the opportunity to do so. It is now this famous idea, as it were, of Iceland as a Finnish model for Iceland, which is to be implemented. I am also very pleased about that, because I also made a lot of speeches about it last season. This was spectacularly highlighted in the objectives, and in this respect it is a great thing that the conditions for leisure activities, both in their own budget line and, for example, in the form of increased sports and culture money, will be secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u185	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u186	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Finnish Fund for the Jubilee of Independence. The purpose of the proposal is to change the regulatory framework for Sitra's governance structure so that it strengthens the parliamentary and horizontal governance of the Fund. The proposal is based on the final report of the Parliamentary Working Group published in March 2019. I thank the parliamentary groups for their thorough groundwork. Sitra is proposed to have its own Board of Directors, separate from the Bank of Finland’s banking mandates, with an increase in the number of members. The Governing Board's tasks would remain essentially unchanged in order to safeguard Sitra's current status as an independent actor. The reform aims to strengthen Sitra’s guidance at the level of the Board of Directors and to deepen the Board of Directors’ activities. Sitra's wide-ranging remit and role also advocate greater parliamentary involvement in steering. The Management Board would also better reflect the need to steer the main lines of an actor such as Sitra, with its expertise, strategic level and future orientation. At the same time, it is proposed to clarify Sitra's management and management system. The proposal proposes to clarify some of the Governing Board's tasks in relation to Sitra's Board of Directors. It is proposed to change the selection procedure and composition of Board members to better meet Sitra's operational needs. According to the proposal, the Chief Ombudsman would no longer be a member of the Board of Directors but would be subject to the management and supervision of the Board of Directors. The Governing Board would continue to elect the Chief Executive. The responsibilities of the Management Board and the regulation of the Board of Directors shall be clarified in such a way as to reflect the government’s position vis-à-vis the Chief Agent. This law is meant to enter into force on 1 January. OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u187	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. For Lintilä, a clear presentation of the government's proposal. The proposal is necessary. In order for Finland to flourish, we need a bold future house under Parliament, Sitra, whose task is to build tomorrow's successful Finland. Sitra is a factor in change that tackles the complex challenges of the future. It reeks of megatrends that shape the world, maps the directions of Finland's future, concepts new opportunities and stimulates reforms. Sitra is also an important institution for lifelong learning and continuous learning. The ability to learn all the time is a force that sustains our lives and our society. It enables us to succeed and develop our society. It is a good thing that Sitra is also closely involved in the ongoing learning reform that the Parliamentary Reform Group has begun its work. Sitra's independence requires responsibility and an open relationship with society. Transparency and evaluation of activities are needed. A functional dialogue between Parliament and Sitra is needed. The extension of Sitra's parliamentary interface is justified. In 2018, the Parliament clarified Sitra's role as a public actor with a provision on compliance with general administrative laws. The parliamentary working group has considered the future of Sitra. The Government's proposal will rise on the basis of the proposals of this parliamentary working party. Thank you for the groundwork of this task force. The proposal rightly proposes that Sitra set up its own Board of Directors, separate from the Bank of Finland’s Banking Ombudsman. At present, Sitra’s governance at the level of the Board of Directors may not be implemented in the best possible way. This is due to the fact that the main tasks of the Banking Ombudsman are related to the Bank of Finland. This does not necessarily allow for deepening and specialisation in Sitra’s operations. At the same time, it is proposed that the Management Board be convened in a sufficiently broad and parliamentary manner. With expertise, strategic approach and forward-looking orientation, such a new kind of board of directors can better guide Sitra's main priorities and priorities. The extensive expertise supports Sitra's management and operations. The proposal clarifies Sitra's management and management system. It shall specify the relations between the Management Board, the Board of Directors and the Executive Ombudsman. The Chief Ombudsman is no longer a member of the Board, but has the right to attend and speak at the Board meetings. The Chief Ombudsman shall be subject to the management and supervision of the Board of Directors. When the law enters into force, Parliament always elects the Governing Board for the parliamentary term. Mr President! Sitra must continue to operate agilely and in a diverse manner. It should anticipate, carry out studies, practical experiments and pilots, collect analyses, test new models and develop them further. Sitra must continue to combine thinking and doing things. Sitra must act as a workshop for the Parliament and Finland, which is based on the knowledge and vision that has been studied. This is how it builds a strong foundation for change. At the same time, it initiates a wide-ranging social debate. Sitra must train, finance, bring together, convene and collate extensive networks and messages about its activities effectively and responsibly. At the heart of all action must continue to be doing things together. Mr President! Despite these justified changes, Sitra should maintain its experimental and forward-looking approach. In this way, it will continue to bring about a culture and entrepreneurial attitude that test our decision-making in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u188	Mr President! Before saying a few words about this government proposal myself, I would like to say that it is important that political decision-making and social debate take advantage of Sitra as much as possible. At the same time, I also say that it is important that the role and role of Sitra in this Finnish society are also discussed in this Parliament. You can say that Sitra was a think-tank, think-tank, even before the think-tanks, because Sitra was already founded back in 1967 when Finland celebrated its 50th anniversary of independence, and it has actually been quite a modern idea in the 60s to set up this kind of Sitra, and we should thank our decision-makers back then for that. Then this proposal, which we have in this debate: I would like to say that it is a good thing that a year ago, the then Finance Minister, Mr Petteri Orpo, put this working group in motion, with the representative of the European Parliament, the current President, Matti Vanhanen, in the running of this working group, where there was a broad parliamentary debate on what changes should be made to Sitra's administration as a whole. In fact, I wonder why these changes were only now made when Sitra has existed for decades, and we have all known that the Bank of Finland’s Banking Council is also the Board of Directors here, and now this proposal is based on the fact that it will become its own Board of Directors, which will be removed from the Board of Directors. So why don't we just do it now? I think it's a very good idea. Through this we can also strengthen this parliamentary expertise and expertise and experience at the Sitra Board of Directors. This proposal also proposes that, in future, the Chief Ombudsman himself should no longer be a member of the Board of Directors. Of course, there would be a right to be present and to speak, but with regard to the Chief Agent, it would be that in the future Sitra's Board of Directors would also lead and supervise the role of Chief Agent. I consider these reforms to be modern and I believe that they are fulfilling this will of Parliament, which has been the case here in the working group as a whole. I think this is very good and I hope that it will be well dealt with and dealt with quickly, and then the law will come into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u189	Mr President! I support the proposals and guidelines made in this parliamentary preparation for Sitra's future, and in that respect the Minister can also be thanked for the good government proposal. However, I would also like to make this perhaps unorthodox point of view in this debate when the new administrative advice is being chosen. There is, of course, a clear historical basis for why Parliament's banking representatives have previously acted as Sitra's Board of Directors, i.e. when we in the Finnish Parliament have a Committee on the Future, which has been set up in a very progressive manner in due course, and which is doing important work and the content of its own work is very close to what Sitra should do, so that they can go pretty close together, the Future Committee and this future Board of Directors, so that as far as possible — and perhaps even to the most important political decision-makers, whom I am sure this Sitra Board of Directors would draw — can also assume responsibility for doing this future work? Mr President! We have had good luck in Finland. Almost without exception, highly skilled politicians are elected as members of the Government, but the pace of work that the members of the Government have to do when they are ministers is truly staggering, exhausting from a human perspective. In that sense, such a combined membership of the Committee on the Future and Sitra's Board of Directors could be an excellent place to dwell on new ideas, and there could be experienced parliamentarians who would then perhaps be in the ministerial pipeline, so that we would have the best possible fresh ideas for moving Finland forward at the time of its responsibilities on that side of the ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u190	Mr President! It is good that this legislative reform of Sitra's administration is now here in Parliament. I myself have the background that, last but not least this season, I was a delegate of the Bank of Finland and I was also a member of this parliamentary working group, which was successfully led by representative Matti Vanhanen and in which there was indeed a basis for this reform, prepared by Parliament. Of course, it is a good thing that we are making progress here in general. It is important that the role of the Board of Directors is strengthened, and it is very well founded, in my opinion, that it should now be disconnected from the mandates of the Banking Authority and become its own separate body, because it may be that a few different types of tasks and perspectives are on the agenda and are needed in these two bodies. It's a good way to go. The fact that parliamentaryism is strengthened within the Governing Board is also a very important principle, of course, for all the parliamentary groups to have enough representation and so forth. Similarly, it must maintain a certain connection with Parliament and can be strengthened. I can tell you that there has been a lot of discussion in this working group and a little bit of it, that it is the Committee on the Future, for example, that we can find some sort of natural connection with the work of the Committee on the Future and its work with these new positions, that is to say, of course, this kind of debate has taken place. I also believe, President, that it is highly justified that the Chief Ombudsman should no longer be a member of the board. In that sense, it may have been a little strange that this type of procedure at Sitra had been taking place, and now we will probably go back to such a so-called routine of governance. One more point I would like to draw attention to: In connection with the work of the working group, we also included an idea that emerged that Sitra's statutory role should also be reviewed, Minister, to such a level as the current operating environment, perhaps. There was therefore a debate in this context, and there are also records in that report that, alongside the current tasks, this area should be defined, for example, as one of the tasks of reducing inequalities and maintaining a certain degree of democracy and the rule of law. In my opinion, these are questions that need to be returned in some way. I don't have an exact idea now... In this context, it seems not to have been recorded, but I hope that this idea will also be promoted, because it was generally accepted in our working group where we are parliamentaryly considering these issues, and I think it is very important to consider today's challenges — very important — that issues such as reducing inequalities and others become visible also in Sitra's field of action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I also very much welcome the fact that administrative reforms or proposals have been made about them, in particular that the Banking Council and the Sitra Board of Directors will be separate institutions in the future and then that Sitra's Chief Ombudsman will no longer be a member of the Board. These are certainly quite unanimous reforms which already exist on the board of companies. Currently, the CEO is not usually a member of the Board of Directors itself, at least in organisations of this size. There's been some good thinking. Of course, there are still some open questions, of which Mr Viitanen set the example of democracy objectives, which I personally consider to be quite good objectives and which are upper-level objectives, but which are not too much of a political guide for the organisation. It is also somewhat contradictory that, at the same time as we want to strengthen Sitra's independent role, so – however, this parliamentary direction seems to be slightly eating up that independent role in this particular way. It is, of course, a good thing that parliamentary direction or this composition is such that there is a wider representation of parties, but it still requires a little reflection on how this will work in the future and what kind of objectives are expected of this parliamentary steering group, the board of directors. In addition to the fact that the government – if there is leadership in the ministries, as is the case now – is still in the government’s hands, the steering is quite a bit tied up in today’s political goals, which is not entirely in line with Sitra’s role again when Sitra is a future house and a think tank. However, I would like to ask myself how this future orientation and independent role could be further strengthened. Could Sitra's institutions also include research experts, for example, or can Sitra's organisation strengthen research expertise in some way? When a review report on Sitra's activities was published recently, it was quite a few interviews with those working at the research interface, though In fact, Sitra makes almost the most of the information. The critical evaluation of information will then play a very central role and the research side will have certain criteria for obtaining information and using information, which are generally considered to be quite reliable when it comes to knowledge-based decision-making or knowledge-based ideas. Then, as I am sure in this debate in Finland in general, it would be good for us to clarify how networks can be used, which is the importance of lobbying. Looking at public sources now, the importance of networks was stressed in this choice of chief ombudsman. When you look again at the work of the EU Commission, the Commission published its decision just a moment ago after consulting the independent ethics committee on the fact that the EU Commission cannot be lobated for two years by a new chief ombudsman. This may, of course, apply to any politician or other actor, but in Finland we do not have very clear rules of play for it or the debate about what is appropriate to use networks. Now, in a certain way, this objective, just as it is publicly justified that networks should be in place, will not happen. So maybe there's a little more to think about, "What do you really want from Sitra?" If Sitra is to act independently, it cannot be overly parliamentary or political guidance. I don't think that's what we want. In order to really get new ideas there and to have a think tank that dares to act, it does require that it also have the opportunity to define it itself. This does not mean, of course, that the various organisational reforms cannot be carried out, but it is certainly a matter for the organisation itself to consider first and foremost how to improve the efficiency of its activities. As such, I welcome the objectives of increasing effectiveness and, for example, more visible to people, among citizens. But we also need to be sensitive to the fact that what is the kind of political guidance that may be related to the objectives of a particular government term, because they too should, in principle at least, implement the current government programme and the objectives that have been decided during that period, but Sitra's future orientation is much longer, or at least should be, and hopefully it will continue to be at least ten years ahead. These are the points that I believe should be taken into account in the further debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u192	Mr President! The draft law before us is based on parliamentary cooperation in this Parliament. The parliamentary working group on the status and reform of Sitra, led by the current President, Mr Vanhanen, presented its proposals, and I would like to thank the Government and the Ministry of Finance. In this bill, it has respected the policies that have been taken in this house. So you can say that this bill has, in a way, already gone through one parliamentary round and now it is up to us to take forward the guidelines that we have decided together here. Mr President! Finland’s Independence Celebration Fund Sitra calls itself the Future House, and that is an excellent name. Sitra has a role as defined in the law, and according to the law it aims to promote stable and balanced development in Finland, economic growth and international competitiveness. Sitra is undoubtedly an important actor in Finnish society. At the same time, it has to be said that Sitra also needs to renew and live in time. Only in that way can it secure its operating conditions in the future and be a strong player in building the future of Finland and Finns. Now this bill and the bill that has already been adopted in this Parliament, which clarified Sitra's administrative role as a public service operator, are just the right guidelines for responding to this change. These presentations aim to ensure that Sitra’s activities meet the needs set out in the law. President! It is particularly important to note that this bill also ensures, and we in Parliament also ensure that Sitra's position as an independent actor is safeguarded. At the same time, there is a need to strengthen Sitra's parliamentary and horizontal guidance. In this respect, it is particularly important to strengthen the parliamentary connection, Sitra's connection to the Parliament as an actor under the Parliament. And then, in this administration too, some of Sitra’s practices are clarified, you can say, according to current good practices. Perhaps the most important change is that for Sitra, for the first time in its history, an independent administrative adviser will be created. And the significance of this change is precisely that this will enable parliamentary groups to put in Sitra's line of work and its role in the future as defined by law or as representatives of the people in this field. Sitra has been a banking council because of its history and has also been Sitra's Board of Directors, which dates back to the time that the Bank of Finland was the one who founded Sitra. And then, when Sitra was administratively expelled from the Bank of Finland in the early 1990s, it was decided that at the same time the Board of Directors is the Board of Directors of Sitra. It is clear that there has been a situation here where the criteria required by the members of this banking council have given priority to the future orientation of economic and monetary policy, which, then, can be said, has become a good second goal. Sitra now has its own board of directors, which is able to concentrate and give the time and input that Sitra requires. The purpose of the composition of this government is also to respond to the change so that it lives in time. It has been the case in the past that there have been certain three ministries which have been designated and from which proposals become members of the Board of Directors. In the future, the Government will submit a proposal from the Minister of Finance to the General Assembly of the Government of Sitra on behalf of the members of the Board of Directors who come from that Ministry, and they can be ministries of any kind. And this makes it possible for the Government and the composition of Sitra's Board of Directors to take better account of the themes, as it were, that Sitra will focus on each time. It is quite clear that, for example, the themes in which Sitra has to work today are artificial intelligence, the digital economy, climate change, the circular economy and then also the rising topic, you can say, silver economy, this so-called age structure change that is facing us as the first country in Europe, we are in the vanguard, as it were. According to the proposal, the appointment of the Executive Director shall be maintained by the Management Board. An important change is that the Chief Ombudsman is no longer a member of the Board, but he naturally has the right to speak and to be present at the Board meeting. This takes Sitra’s administration to the present day, a step in the right direction, and this clarifies the management of the Fund and, above all, the relationship of responsibility and power. Mr President! I think it is important that, as has been the case so far, this change has been prepared in good parliamentary cooperation. I would like to say, in particular, that I think it is important that this bill is also dealt with here in the parliamentary debate so that it takes place across the government-opposition boundaries, i.e. that Sitra's bill should be taken with the greatest possible consensus, and I do not believe that there are great passions here. I would also like to say one thing as the current chairman of Sitra's Governing Board and also as chairman of the largest parliamentary group. I think it is important that, now that the composition of the Board of Directors is 13 to 17, this means that, under this current formula, all established smaller parliamentary groups, for example more than three representatives, would not automatically have a seat in our current practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u193	Mr President! Sitra has a future only if it acts independently, transparently, honestly and professionally. Over the years, I have received a lot of contacts in connection with Sitra’s activities. I have received concerns as to whether Sitra is a shelter for former and current politicians. I have also had questions as to whether they are healthy networks or whether they are unhealthy, whether they are lobbying and corruption. These questions, which come to the public and that continue to be met in that field, must be taken very seriously. This is why it is important that the future Sitra, the renewed Sitra, is convincing on all sides, acting in a sound and transparent way and impartially. Independence must be guaranteed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u194	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral debate on this matter. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Let's go talk to him. Congressman Heinonen. Correcting: Minister Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u195	Mr President! Very briefly. According to the Government Programme, the taxation of fossil fuels will be increased by EUR 250 million during the parliamentary term, in line with the projected increase in consumer prices. The proposal proposes that the increase be implemented next year from 1.8.2020. The increase is an average of 5.3 cents per litre for petrol and replacement products and 5.6 cents per litre for diesel and its replacement fuels. According to the Government Programme, the size of tax increases is based on the projected increase in consumer prices during the parliamentary term. This will be compensated for by changes in benefit levels for low-income earners and a reduction in income tax. The tax increase will be weighted on the CO2 tax. In practice, this means that the biodiesel tax remains at a minimum level of 3 cents as determined by the EU. Therefore, the tax burden on biodiesel will not increase as a result of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u196	And now to that conversation I just promised you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u197	Mr President! Minister, ladies and gentlemen and others present! Antti Rinte's government presented its first budget in early autumn, and the Helsingin Sanomat reported that motorists have been listed as one of the biggest losers. Today we are dealing with one key element of this next year's budget, of which today we are dealing with increases in taxes on petrol and diesel, about 254 million. This is the goal of the Government Programme: the Government Programme states that under Antti Rinte's Government Programme, taxes will be increased by 250 million. In other words, this is a purely fiscal, financial measure to vaccinate more Finnish drivers, and I understand very well that, for example, the city centre representative, Rantakangas, is no longer here in the Chamber to discuss the possibilities of living and the possibilities of mobility in the country of long distances. This is a harsh way to vaccinate these ordinary Finns. A passenger car user who uses a car some 30,000 miles [30,000 km] is quite a normal car user. Often, when pendeling, or commuting, miles may be as much as half of this. But the cost of that 30,000 - mile [30,000 km], such car users, will increase by 140 euros. So, what does this mean for the transport industry? I got acquainted with my godmother transport company, Tarikkala, and asked what this fuel tax increase, which is about six cents a litre, meant for one of the applicants, quickly calculated that the annual cost of one truck would be about 8,000 euros. Let's talk about a rather significant additional burden. For example, when Mr Kalli here today spoke beautifully about entrepreneurship, this is precisely where entrepreneurship, transport costs, transport entrepreneurs, but also in all other forms of entrepreneurship, where transport is a part of it. At the end of the game, even this increase will be paid by the users of these services, for example, in the price of milk, food prices, service prices and, through this applicant company, eventually in the price of heating, i.e. this will also be passed on to ordinary Finns through the use of their own passenger car. In other words, in one night at the turn of next July and August, the price of gas and diesel will rise by about 5 to 6 cents per litre. All in all, therefore, the Government of the slopes is making tax increases of more than 400 million on transport — including the abolition of the tax subsidy on paraffinic diesel, which will inevitably also increase the price of renewable diesel, and the emissions targets for road freight will be further removed by this measure. The government, therefore, with the abolition of the tax subsidy for paraffinic diesel oil, which is also coming to Parliament, is punishing precisely the prices of cleaner diesel. As a result, it is also a tax evasion, which also undermines employment objectives. At the same time, when the government plans new congestion charges, in practice tolls, they also hit hard on those people who live in rural areas, spending limits cities and Uusimaa and have to use their own car to come to, for example, the capital region or to work in the Tampere, Turku, Jyväskylä or Oulu region, where there are many jobs and they have to use their own car. It is also where these congestion charges, which the Rinte government has planned and, I dare say, which will soon be presented, will strike. I hope that the centre will give serious consideration to these measures. These discipline people in rural areas in a harsh way, in addition to this fuel tax. Mr President! In fact, you could conclude that the effect of this tax tightening on petrol and diesel is quite drastic for ordinary Finnish people. I just described what it means for the user of a normal car, how it will then flow through transport to the prices of services and products. In addition, while Antti Rinte’s government is also taking a number of other measures, which will affect families’ finances, for example, the taxation of many ordinary, middle-income families will be tightened next year. At the same time, the household allowance will also be cut, and there are many other proposals that are still being brought to Parliament. Finally, when this government is rather hard on the motorists, one of the concerns is that the reduction in the car tax — in fact, with the centre and the majority in the government in 2016, 17, 18 and even this year 19 — will now end next year, which means that the car tax will no longer be reduced. So, what's happened to our car tax returns? Although we lowered the tax under the leadership of the Centre Party and the National Coalition Party, even when the Finns and Blues were in the government, tax revenues actually increased. In other words, our car trade recovered in Finland; it was no longer necessarily imported all those cars at an accelerated pace from elsewhere, which had previously been imported. But now the car tax is no longer falling, and this will contribute to the fact that the car fleet will no longer be renewed and the emissions will not be reduced, because the new cars will be safer and less emitable than those old cars, which have now been brought back from Sweden and Germany, for example, at an accelerating pace.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u199	Mr President! It is interesting that the coalition at the mouth of Mr Heinonen is now so concerned about the increase in transport fuels. Perhaps a little history review is in place here. Since the 2011 energy tax reform, these excise duties on transport fuels have been increased four times, and at all these times the coalition has been in the government. This is not a pleasant task in itself to increase the taxation of transport fuels. However, this has been measured fairly, and it is, above all, important to see what this money can achieve. From the point of view of transport entrepreneurs as well as ordinary road users, it is very important that roads are in good shape, and it is therefore important that the government invests heavily in the maintenance of basic transport routes so that roads across Finland can be reached.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u200	I guess this is about debating more than that. Those of you who want this, stand up one more time and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u201	Mr President! Indeed, next year the government will increase the price of transport fuels by its own active measures, nearly six cents per litre of petrol and six and a half cents per litre of diesel, and this really feels in the pockets of Finns. In this respect, I would like to ask the representatives of the centre that you understand that this also affects the cost of all economic activities in the countryside. In fact, the tax will come on top of the tax when all the costs for an entrepreneur or, for example, a farmer, a farmer, are increased, the margins of his own production are reduced, and then the smaller part of his hand will have to pay even more as fuel prices, for example, in connection with his own business or, for example, travelling through children’s hobbies. This, if anything, is an active policy of concentration. In this respect, I would like this increase in fuel prices not to be made. Mr President! When representatives of the government say that this is only an increase in the overall cost level, then, Mr President, this is where the government is generating the increase in the cost level, precisely where the long distances between regions are.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u202	Mr President! It is quite dramatic that the representatives of the Group of the European People's Party here are able to present their own background in these matters. Under the Parliamentary elections, the Coalition Party called for the abolition of the car tax,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u207	Mr President! I know that Mr Kiviranta, as one of Parliament's best tax experts, understands and knows what this is about, of course. At the same time, significant reductions in labour taxation have been made at the same time when the coalition has also been in government and fuel tax has been tightened. When we were together with you in the government, the measures were precisely that the taxation of labour was reduced and then some was transferred to this side. And the results were, Mr Kiviranta, very successful with you: we had an increase in employment and increased people's purchasing power and so on. So now we must remember, Mr Kalli too, when we look at what is being done, that we can certainly increase the fuel if we do, at the same time, reduce the tax burden on labour, or preferably a little more, but you do not do so at the moment. You're going to punish the fuel tax first, after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u208	Congressman Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u209	Mr President! I have to say that it seems that the city center is going to end up with government and taxes like taxes, depending on who's your friend. But it has to be said at this point when, once again, the taxation of working people is being tightened with this fuel tax, that in this very way, as Mr Heinonen well described, there will be more costs for business that come to the consumer prices there, so this is not just about what it costs to drive to work. But sometimes I feel... I do not know if it was meant to have some sort of climate background, but lately it seems to me that ‘climate’ is a good word,returning taxes and then increasingimmigration,and it seems that this climateconversation on twocircles.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u210	Mr President! It is quite true and I think it is very important that this increase in costs should be compensated for those on low and medium incomes, and that is what this government is doing. Benefits will be increased and taxes on earned income of people on low and middle income will be reduced. [of the Group of the European People's Party: Let's not lighten up!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u211	Mr President! To Mr Kalli, I would like to say that what good are you in good health if people can no longer afford to drive on those roads? When you look at this whole package of government decisions, this is a cold ride for a middle-income motorist. Next year, the average wage and salary earners will have 150 euros less left in their hands, and you will also increase fuel taxes. If you think of a family with two adults who drive over 30,000 miles per year, perhaps in the spending limits municipality, the cost of raising the fuel tax is 300 euros. In other words, the taxation of this family will increase by more than EUR 600 just because of the tightening of taxes on wages and the tightening of taxes on fuel. Then there's the traffic charges coming up. According to the plan presented in Uusimaa, this averages between EUR 700 and EUR 1000 per year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u212	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal to increase fuel taxes by EUR 250 million is very gloomy for the motorist, and this implementation of the government proposal would make it difficult, for example, to work and to take up work, especially in those areas where public transport is weak or does not exist at all. Of course, the rising cost of living will be borne not only by the working-age population but also by all Finns, and business would also suffer as transport costs rise. Mr President! Furthermore, taking into account all other measures planned by the government to undermine employment and economic growth, including its plans to cut the household allowance by nearly EUR 100 million, the government is not much to be praised for promoting consumer demand and employment prospects. In fact, in their alternative budget, the Finns will propose cancelling both government proposals and replacing much more sensible measures to restore the state finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u213	Mr President! I am surprised at the very contradictory line taken by the Assembly in reducing emissions. The increase in fuel taxation is in line with the climate policy agreed between eight parties last season, which aims to halve transport emissions by 2030. In relation to this, this increase, which is now being proposed, is not even very significant, because it is only an index increase and, at the same time, the amount of low-income handicraft income will be increased. As we are well aware, transport accounts for about one fifth of emissions from the non-ETS sector in Finland. According to many estimates, it is transport that has the highest emission reduction potential. It is quite clear that there must be less driving. The Coalition Party speaks of long distances from Finland but at the same time opposes road user charges. Is it the case that climate policy is for the assembly?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u214	Mr President! You can understand it here when you listen to the speeches made by your colleagues in the centre that there is an emergency, because people will remember it when next year the fuel tax is tightened and the situation of the transport operator becomes even worse. In my own constituency of Satakunta, I have met a lot of transport entrepreneurs who are already in a difficult situation, and this increase in fuel tax continues to complicate their position. To Mr Pitko, I would understand this decision in some way — even then I could not support it, but I would understand the government’s objective — if such a decision had a significant emission reduction effect. But the government itself states in its own proposal that this solution will lead to a 0.7% reduction in total transport emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u218	Mr President! It is a pity that Mr Heinonen has already left, but it is very good for him to see that there is a government proposal here in Parliament to reduce the taxation of earned income by EUR 200 million from next year. It concerns the beneficiaries of the lowest wage, benefit and pension income. Increase the reduction in labour income, the reduction in pension income and also the basic reduction in municipal taxation. After all, taxes on earned income will not tighten up next year. It is a different matter, then, that there is a kiky agreement whereby pension and unemployment insurance contributions are still being transferred from the employer to the employee, but I think that it has long been compensated for by employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u219	Mr President! The state already collects around EUR 8 billion in different tax revenues from road transport, so it would be sufficient for road transport and its improvement and maintenance without new tax increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u220	Mr President! In that bill, I did not see much assessment of its impact on the cost of bus and coach transport. That is what matters, for example, when it comes to the mobility of peripheral regions, especially after this proposal increases the price of passenger cars. With the Lipasto system of transport, this tax increase would increase the cost of bus and coach transport by EUR 12.4 million per year on a national basis. According to the same system, it would have a reduced effect of around one per cent on bus and coach travel volumes, taking into account price elasticity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u223	Let's try to hold on to this minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u224	Mr President! Now that the government is increasing the pump prices for both petrol and diesel, I do not know if the right Minister is now in the box, but I ask the Minister: because when petrol and diesel are at almost the same price, what is the basis of the power tax on the diesel-powered vehicle? Because, in most cases, it is a small citizen in a remote area, where there is no public transport, to get a cheap diesel vehicle, and it is quite unreasonable that there is still a considerable power tax in addition to the operating charge. Is there another solution? This is quite unreasonable compared to the petrol driver.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u225	Mr President! Indeed, for Finns, a passenger car is an essential part of the accessibility of everyday services as well as all other services and, above all, of working. And in order for us to have the economic wheels running, of course, we also need a very good road infrastructure. Mr President! When taxes are collected on traffic in Finland almost EUR 8.5 billion per year, money must be found in the state treasury to keep roads in good traffic and safe condition and also to make new necessary infrastructure investments. In this respect, it cannot be justified by this future tax increase by implementing this work of the parliamentary transport system working group, but I believe that there is a very broad common understanding in the House of Parliament that the infrastructure is in any case well cared for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u226	Mr Lundén and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u227	Mr President! Finland already has one of the world's most expensive fuels and taxes on them. With these tax increases, the government intends to make living conditions in rural and remote northern areas considerably more difficult. Long study, shopping and business trips become more difficult due to rising costs. Tax increases also have a detrimental effect on business, as the majority of goods on Finnish roads are on rubber wheels. In practice, government measures mean the depopulation of certain regions, the reduction of services and jobs. Our society is paying such a high price for these government green stunts against climate change that we simply cannot afford this. There is no need to change taxation at all, and that is a very short-sighted policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u228	Let us now turn to the list of speakers for a little while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u229	Mr President! I don't think the government's proposal on the table is going to make anything but the tax bear happy, and that's just for a moment. The increase in the fuel tax will hit everything we need in this country: activity, employment and enterprise — exactly what people should be encouraged to do on the contrary. An increase of EUR 250 million in fuel tax disciplines the ordinary motorist and transport entrepreneur. Next year, people will find out with their gas pumps how taxation will increase and the price of gallons will increase by more than 5 cents per litre. This is because the present government would be able to pay off its election vows that brought this present government together. Finland moves on wheels. The price of fuel affects our society as a whole, the incentives to work and the competitiveness of Finnish industry. Already in Finland, diesel is the fifth most expensive, petrol is the third most expensive in Europe. In total, more than EUR 8 billion of tax revenue is collected per year from transport. The government’s tax increase is filled with a gas pump by an ordinary family member or mother who uses her own car to work. At the same time, while the government budget means that the taxation of ordinary middle-income employees will increase next year — Mr Kalli, taxation will increase, not be reduced as was suggested here in the debate — many employees will be less paid than they currently are. Here Mr Kiviranta said that the increase in the side costs of the competitiveness pact would be compensated, as it were, but it is not the sorrow of an ordinary working person to watch him come home from work and receive a pay slip, and if he gets less than he has received in the past, then it is not the grief of the ordinary employee to wonder what it is, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is our job and our responsibility to ensure that the incentives to work remain good in this country. And that is the responsibility now, Mr Government, which you must bear. For transport entrepreneurs, an increase in tax will also mean an additional cost of up to thousands of euros a year. Many entrepreneurs have contacted me about this decision, which is perceived to be unfair and to vaccinate entrepreneurship. This is not a government policy that encourages work and entrepreneurship. Tax increases also have an impact on business and industry, whose competitiveness and ability to employ Finns should rather be taken care of in this Chamber. According to Jussi Pesonen, CEO of UPM, an increase in the price of diesel means an additional cost of EUR 4 million per year for the company. This corresponds to the annual operating profit of one whole paper machine, i.e. the annual operating profit of one year. It is therefore clear that this increase will also have a major impact on the competitiveness of Finnish industry and on the ability of companies to operate in Finland at all. It is clear that this kind of additional cost for businesses and consumers undermines both incentives to work and the competitiveness of our country. I can see why my fellow Members in the centre of this Chamber have raised quite a bit of this, because people will remember what kind of policy this government is doing. We'll see about that next year when the gas pumps are back on the rise. Mr President! Nor is there any justification for this decision in terms of the overall climate and transport policy. The increase is estimated to reduce transport emissions by only 0.7%. It is clear that, from a climate point of view, the criteria are unnecessary or that the decision cannot be justified from that point of view. Fueling will increase, but emissions will continue to occur. I will make a recommendation to the government and I hope that you will address this: leave this increase behind and put your energies into tax and transport policy, which will support the introduction of new driving forces to the market, especially the proliferation of gas and electric cars, the use of cleaner fuels and the renewal of the Finnish car fleet, because our car fleet is one of the oldest in Europe. We also receive as many as 40,000 second-hand, big-engine cars every year, and this also does not support the achievement of zero-emission traffic. I appeal, Mr President, to the Minister for Finance, Lintilän: be patient and sensible and cancel this unjust decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u230	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u231	We will now resume the debate on item 10, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u232	Madam President! I would have liked to say on that previous point that the Hornets were gathered there in the Hall of Hurevesi, which means that there was work in Finland, but since it has nothing to do with this now, I will leave it unsaid. Madam President! This tightening of fuel taxes is a very unfortunate reform for the government. And the fact that next summer the gas pump will tighten the costs of ordinary Finnish cars by about six cents and the diesel pump by 6.5 cents, and then taxes will be introduced on top of taxes, as unfortunately, for example, rural areas will speed up the development that has led to a relatively rapid urbanisation in Finland in recent years, and not all the changes brought about by urbanisation are good in Finland. The main cause of deforestation, for example, is urbanisation when cities have to be rapidly expanded as the population moves away from those former residential areas. And in this respect, I would particularly challenge the representatives of the Centre Party of Finland to take a stand on whether this is a desirable development now that this increase in fuel taxes is so strongly hit by rural economic activity, housing in rural areas, and people working in rural areas here will be taxed on the tax, while the taxation of those working is already tightening up in the coming year. After all, EUR 8.5 billion of taxes are already collected per year from transport and, for example, from the very good and necessary action of the government itself that next year's budget is being proposed to achieve the EUR 300 million increase proposed by the parliamentary transport system working group in the establishment of the system, there must be money more than EUR 250 million to increase the tax burden on the car user. So, in this respect, Madam President, I would now like to challenge the government, and the many competent representatives of the centre, particularly those who speak for the countryside, to reflect on the importance of this proposal and whether this could be overturned and to think about going out there to defend the rural economy, there to defend entrepreneurship. However, there are many of the long value chains which, when they are still processed here in the main offices, will eventually generate the export income and income that will then finance this Finnish welfare society. So, for a vibrant countryside, I want to speak here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u233	Madam President! The increase in the fuel tax is talking and, of course, the government's intentions are annoying. I don't think the government is fully considering Finland's competitiveness or entrepreneurship. Taxation seems to guide traffic to the railways. However, rubber wheels are the ones on which Finland travels, on basic wheels. However, this has been forgotten by the government. After all, the majority of people in Finland travel by car now and in the future. People are being transported by car, food is being transported by car, goods are being transported by car. There's more to the car and more to the road than there is to the tracks. Of course, the railways are important too, I'm not saying that, but each of us needs rubber wheels. No matter how much rail traffic is used, rubber wheels are still needed. For example, food, it runs at least at some point always on rubber wheels, so on milk, so on meat, so on flour. The tax increase affects: travel costs are higher, business trips are more expensive, products are more expensive, and Finns pay. When it's foggy in Delhi, in Finland, in a country of long distances, our motorists seem to be guilty. In Finland, people dream of electric motoring, but somehow I dare to suspect that it will not happen so quickly, hardly easily. According to the survey, the average value of cars in Finland is EUR 3,600, so that everyone actually buys that electric car? I can't really believe it. The price factor is a major factor. It would be a good thing if the government were to cancel this stupid idea. Cancel the fuel tax increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u234	Madam President! This proposal will increase the costs of both companies and households, as has already been heard so many times in this Chamber. The real costs are, in high probability, much higher than the bill suggests. Finland is a country of long distances where driving, especially in sparsely populated areas, is often necessary. Thus, man’s movement should be made easier, not more difficult, as this presentation is now going to do. This presentation will have negative effects on, for example, leisure opportunities for children of families in need of help, and thus increase inequality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u235	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the fact that, after Antti Rinte's government has been formed, there have been a lot of critical remarks from the parliamentary group on the other hand about debt, on the other hand, about the fact that the government has not done enough climate action in the first few months of its life. Now this increase in the tax on transport fuels, especially fossil transport fuels, is not a big thing in itself, but nevertheless helps to some extent both of them. It will increase government revenue by around EUR 200 million and a small increase in the taxation of one or two fossil fuels. Now, when compared with the way this views the development of the prices and taxation of liquid fuel, the explanatory statement of the Government’s proposal states that last year the excise duty on petrol was about 3% lower in the Consumer Price Index and around 5% lower than in 2010. So this tax increase, which is now coming, is only a few percentage points higher than the inflation adjustment now just compared to 2010. In addition, I would like to compare the impact of the change in world oil prices on both. This year, the consumer price of petrol is on average about 14 cents lower than in 2012 but on the other hand 24 cents higher than in 2016. Diesel's consumer price is also about 14 cents lower than in 2015 and 15 cents higher than in 2016. In other words, if you compare this price variation of 14 to 24 cents due to a change in the world market price of crude oil, then here, for petrol, the tax change is just over 5 cents and for diesel, a little over 5 cents per litre, but it is only a fraction of the price change that has been caused by the volatility of prices on the world market. With this in mind, I would just like to point out whether it is a matter of dramatic changes in the cost of living for people whose daily lives depend on a car or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u236	Mr President! This increase in fuel prices has provided an exceptionally easy way of politicising the opposition. Here we are hitting the drum just as we were listening to the speeches today. Representative Reijoen heartbrokenly appealed to the government, begged you to cancel this, and Mr Koponen already pointed out how children's hobbies are being vaccinated and harassed by the people of the countryside and so on. This is about the exceptionally clear little policy that is taking place here. I thought Mr Hassi's speech was heavy. He pointed out in concrete figures that, in practice, this increase in fuel taxes is only an answer to inflation, that is to say, an increase in the rate of inflation here, which is virtually neutral in relation to the fact that the cost burden would be strongly shifted to something more specific. But there is also a principle here. One aspect of principle is the contribution to climate change referred to in the Government Programme. This is a small gesture, a very small gesture in that respect. It is a bigger gesture in relation to the issue of transport taxation in general, and that too has been the subject of much debate. If there is taxation on transport — and that is what we have in Finnish society and should have — then this taxation on fuel is the right form of taxation for transport. It is a direct tax on traffic volumes, that is to say, it taxes it when a car is used, when it uses fuels. It is a much more meaningful form of taxation than the debate that has taken place here, for example, on tolls or congestion charges or the like, which are then a load on top of the load, which is in any case related to the taxation of motor vehicles. Fuel taxation is a natural, sensible way of taxing traffic, and let these natural inflation checks be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u237	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u238	Mr President! The proposal is based on the so-called tax avoidance directive adopted in 2016. Its last implementing measures are this regulation on hybrid situations and a subsequent proposal to tax the increase in the value of companies' assets when the funds are transferred outside Finland's tax jurisdiction. The purpose of this proposal is to prevent the so-called hybrid arrangements. Hybrid arrangements refer to a situation where a financial instrument, or a performance based on it, is treated differently in the taxation of different countries, the payer or the recipient. In hybrid arrangements, hybrid mismatches result from double deductions in taxation and non-taxation of income. The law proposes to provide for derogations from the deductible nature of expenditure and the taxable amount of income applicable in connection situations and in so-called structured arrangements. Such expenditure relating to hybrid schemes shall not be deductible from taxation if the income is not taxed in another State or the expenditure is deducted twice. In addition, the income resulting from the hybrid arrangement is subject to taxation in so far as the payer has reduced the performance and the deduction has not been refused. The law would apply to the taxation of corporations and partnerships. It is also proposed that amendments be made to the Act on the Taxation of Business Income, the Income Tax Act and the Agricultural Income Tax Act, which refer to the present Act on the Taxation of Certain Hybrid Arrangements. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2020 and would apply to taxation for 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u239	And now for the referral debate, which will take 30 minutes at the most. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — It seems to be going well in less than 30 minutes, there are no speakers on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u240	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u241	Mr President! The Government proposes that certain tax planning arrangements should be notified to the Tax Administration so that it can report them automatically to other EU countries. It is proposed to include in the Tax Procedures Act provisions on reporting obligations and sanctions for non-compliance with reporting arrangements. It is also proposed to provide a separate law on reporting arrangements that would include provisions on reporting arrangements, information to be reported, reporting obligations and reporting procedures. The arrangement should be reported if it relates to more than one country, fulfils the distinguishing sign and has reached the reporting maturity. The Tax Administration would inform the other Member States of the reporting arrangements required by the Directive by transmitting the information to the central register of the Commission. Some of the information would also be anonymous to the Commission in order to monitor the implementation of the Directive. The Act would enter into force from the beginning of 2020. The law would apply to arrangements that can be reported on or after 1.7.2020, but in some respects to arrangements that can be reported on or after 25.08. The proposal is based on EU legislation on the automatic exchange of tax information between Member States. Reporting provides authorities with information on cross-border tax planning arrangements that may include tax evasion or avoidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u242	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for this referral debate. In the case of scheduled cases, the procedures agreed in advance shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u243	Mr President! In this bill — a title that sounds more or less perhaps strange — it may not describe the content that is at stake here in particular — that is to say, the draft law on ‘removement of small isolatedregions to another municipality’is the background of the TEAS study, which has been carried out on the basis of a very well-founded work on the development of the local and regionalreferencingsystems. Therefore, the big question in this bill is that the appeal of the municipal law should be amended so that the right to appeal and the right to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court require an appeal permit. This practice is already on the side of municipalities or in matters relating to municipalities, for example, with regard to environmental and building permits, and this would now also be the subject of these municipal complaints. There we have the number of these in the draft law, the number of these currently in existence and the length of time spent by the Supreme Administrative Court on these matters, plus the number of changes made. Here some may ask the question of whether the rights of citizens are being reduced, but in our view it is not the case that the right of appeal under democracy still exists, i.e. the right to appeal remains. But this machine will be removed that all of them can be immediately made available if the undesirable result comes from that first degree, transferred and taken to the Supreme Administrative Court. This is also possible, but it requires its permission, that is, its basis first, so that it can be brought forward. And that is why this proposal has come here, which is to make it easier for this bureaucracy, if you want to use this simplification. Then, these — what is written here — are more technical changes in the transfer of small isolated areas and so on, which will record here this Digi and Population Information Office and the Land Survey and other such changes, which then relate to those points when municipalities, for example, are connected or transferred to some areas of another municipality or other such, i.e. these are related to these technical details. However, this appeal procedure to the Supreme Administrative Court for municipal complaints is the content of this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u244	Mr President! This is certainly a good and well-founded proposal, and indeed, as the well-known Minister, Mr Paatero, well described this proposal, there are perhaps two dimensions here. But I cannot help but ask the Minister what is not at present, Mr President, in connection with this government proposal, but when we are discussing the transfer of these municipal borders, the government is not going to give up all its support for municipalities to find new dynamics in such strategic mergers in those regions, where it could certainly be achieved by shaking down such administrative structures? We have spent the last few years focusing on this reform of the social welfare structure in Finland, and of course I would like to wish the present government every success in that, because it is absolutely essential that the structures be reformed, but not only should we remain trapped in the reform of the social welfare system, but also create conditions for municipalities to operate. So, in this sense, if the President will allow us, when we now have Minister Paatero here in front of Parliament, if we could have a little vision of this future of the municipal field.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u245	Mr President! This, as Mr Autto pointed out, is not part of this bill, but it is in itself quite specific because this bill also contains these sections of the municipalities. After all, we already have a law that if two municipalities merge and another municipality merges with the state transfers, this could be compensated for. We already have the opportunity to support this report once this year. If studies are carried out on the unification of municipalities, this study can be supported, and at the moment — and I have said so to the public — we are still wondering whether there are still some ways in which the municipalities might then be motivated here on the state side, even though at the moment we have the direct money that has been spent on, for example, the Paras project, to unite the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u246	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. To this end, a maximum of 30 minutes shall be reserved for the referral debate. In the case of scheduled cases, the procedures agreed in advance shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u247	Mr President! Legislation on the production and reporting of municipal financial information will facilitate the situation in all municipalities — and possibly in the future this model will be passed on to social welfare regions — insofar as, at present, many of you, as a municipal decision-maker, know that municipalities have to report very different and differently collected data on their own finances as well. It is now appropriate to harmonise this, and that is why the idea is that, in order to have comparable data at state level and also comparable data for local authorities on the situations of other municipalities, it is good that we have one place where all this information can be obtained. This automation will also make it easier to reduce those so-called hand-made reports. More than one reporting channel is now accessible to one channel. This is the real idea of the whole thing. When this is done digitally, there is also the question of how much money this requires from the municipalities. Part of this has been achieved and it has been sought to respond in such a way that this EUR 30 million digital support, which has now been applied for, can, if the municipalities so wish, be partly used for this purpose, so that the reporting possibilities of the municipalities can be digitised, after which the reporting would be much easier. These funds are now being discussed and we will see how much — at least provisionally, when I looked, there is some of them in this regard. This is linked to the fact that this reporting will come to the Treasury in the future. And that is why the State Treasury has been considered here to be entrusted with the responsibility and also the funding to be able to manage it through there. Then there is the question of whether this is a new or expanding task. Together with the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, we have come to the common idea that this is not a new and expanding task; it is actually a diminishing task when many reports reach one reporting channel. That is why this will not have these effects when the Government Programme promises to compensate. The idea here is that in the coming years a few hundred thousand euros of central government shares can be reduced when the municipalities reduce this work in terms of the fact that these reports only happen one and even directly so that they can digitally, automatically be redirected to the State Treasury, so that the burden of work from the municipalities in this case will be reduced. Let us hope that this will be brought forward quickly, because the aim would also be to move forward quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u248	I saw it, and then a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u249	Mr President! The Local Government Financial Information Act is a welcome reform, with which everyone will probably already know the benefits that are being sought. Thank you for this introduction to Minister Paatero. However, there are several elements of justification and preparation that are alien to the realities of municipalities and municipal groups, which pose significant risks to the reform and to the entities it targets. The main issue for the success of this reform is not how to get the information out of the systems of municipalities and joint municipal authorities, but how to get it in. The reform harmonises and automates data and reporting forward and this automation is thought to allow savings. However, nothing goes forward from the information systems of municipalities and joint municipal authorities, not manually, let alone automatically, until the necessary information has been entered correctly and in time. The reform will change the detail, content, volume and rhythm of the economic and operational management of a large number of target entities to a permanent higher level than costs. Both own and the cost of purchasing services will rise. Mr President! Although the aid could be justified by the fact that it is not a new statutory obligation for municipalities, it seems strongly that at least smaller municipalities and the companies of the municipal groups will be on the verge of restructuring and its costs. In addition, the requirement for municipalities and joint municipal authorities to oblige companies producing purchasing services to differentiate their invoices according to the reporting requirements of financial data is from another planet. How could companies know the targets and cost allocation principles of municipalities, businesses, municipal groups, companies and joint municipal boards, unless these data are uniquely clear from orders. At the moment, the purchase of municipalities in euros may be largely controlled, but in terms of actual numbers, it is a full circus. Mr President! The key operational and financial risks of the reform lie in its timetable. The conclusion of the date of introduction, in a situation where content has not yet been defined, is tantamount to begging for disaster. With so many cooks in the soup, planning will take all the time so that there will not be enough time for implementation, testing and commissioning. The majority of target entities rely on external financial management, reporting services and consultancy providers. Although the target mode is common to all, each target community has a different starting position and therefore the implementation projects are all different. This year will be the weakest year of economic history for the municipalities, the weakest of all time. The economic and functional load of the reform will hit a very bad seam in the presented form. Further preparation of the reform should therefore be re-runned so that the timetable for implementation is decided only after the specifications have been established and the parties have had the opportunity to assess and comment on realistic costs, implementation and deployment schedules. It should also be ensured that municipalities receive adequate financial compensation for the investment and operating costs of the reform and that they do not find themselves in an unequal position. Let us not mess up this important reform in a hurry. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u250	Mr President! Finnish municipalities are an amazing success story from 150 years ago, since the municipal reform of the 1860s. In municipalities and cities around the country, what we understand as a Nordic welfare society has been put into practice. In this time, the finances of municipalities are being challenged in many ways, and when we look at the future of local government finances, it is clear that there should be no additional burdens on the shoulders of municipalities in order to be able to perform this particular welfare task. In this respect, this government proposal is welcome to strive for this reporting obligation, which in many ways is a heavy burden on municipalities, to simplify and clarify. Mr President! Perhaps in this context, when information systems are the main bottleneck in the fact that the correct information is available in the right form at the right time, how does Minister Paatero estimate that now that this EUR 30 million is earmarked for this digital support programme — is it enough to do what the municipalities really need to do when the issue of new ict procurements alone is a billion-dollar issue on an annual basis? In order to have integrated systems in Finland in such a way that they really serve not only these needs for the production of information, but also, for example, in the field of social services, for example, that employees have the impression that the information systems are so compatible that, for example, the mobility of workers is possible. For example, I already know from the reports of older workers that it is difficult to move from one health centre to another if there are completely different operating systems. However, they are one of the most important tools in everyday work. So in this respect, I ask the Minister how we are going to coordinate it, on the one hand, support but, in fact, guidance for municipalities, so that these issues on the digital side, the ict side, can finally be fully served by the municipalities as well as by all of us in the municipality?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u251	Mr President! There's a little weirdness about reporting cases in the municipalities. For example, the government put hundreds of millions in informal care in recent years, that is, hundreds of millions. Well, the carers were satisfied, the local residents were satisfied, the municipal decision-makers were satisfied. But what happened? What happened to the money? If the government puts money into informal care, that money may not go to what is rather unusual — it will be earmarked for something, but it will not get there. I wonder about that very much. The municipalities have quite a lot of self-determination, and that's why. So the money could be used for some other purpose. The THL asked this question and received an answer that the money did not always go for that purpose. So we should be watching whether or not that money goes to that family care. It's kind of the same as if they make me buy food at the store and I buy toys and candy there and I come back with great satisfaction and I don't get rebuked for it — it can't be like that in the municipalities. Of course there is a need for follow-up, we need to be very vigilant in these. In the future, follow-up should be better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u252	Mr President! The aim of this bill is good and justified, as has been said here. When the economic situation of municipalities is now quite challenging, it is particularly important that we receive comparable data on the finances of municipalities. We need reliable, up-to-date and comparable information as a basis for decision-making by municipalities and the state, so that we can take the important decisions to ensure that the finances of the municipalities are put on a healthier footing. It is important to simplify procedures and reduce reporting costs. The aim of this proposal is to collect financial data from 2021 onwards in accordance with the uniform system of the Treasury and to make them easily accessible according to the principle of open data. I also consider this to be an important element in this reform. Today, financial reporting is based on recommendations and, for example, there are major problems with comparability. It is certainly the case that this is such a big change that the cost of change will come when municipalities learn how to use the new system, but in the longer term, of course, the aim must be to achieve savings when we have a clear and uniform system. Monitoring and comparability of local government finances improves, which facilitates the own financial steering of both central and local government. Mr President! This proposal and its objectives must indeed be supported, and the starting point must be that this is an important digital step, which will make life easier for those responsible for the finances of the municipalities and for our lives here as well, when decisions are taken on the finances of the municipalities. But it is important that this reform is now being carefully prepared and that adequate support is also available for the transformation phase. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u253	Mr President! Here was an important speech on this digitalisation of municipal services, which is of course an important issue for us, to develop society also in this digital direction. But I would like to remind you that there is also some kind of hype in society about this digitalisation, that we have a significant number of citizens who are automatically outside these digital services. In this case, I refer above all to senior citizens, the elderly. It is good to remember that 80% of people over 75 do not have a computer at their disposal, and when you go to over 85, there are up to a third people who do not even have a mobile phone at their disposal. We have about 300,000 senior citizens in Finland who are unable to use these digital services, and that does not help us to start with training, training, training to use those digital services. It's kind of like telling a disabled person to run. It just doesn't work because they live in another social reality. That is why I would like to make a strong appeal to the government and also to the decision-makers and municipalities not to go too far in the public service provided through these digital services, because we are putting people in a situation that is completely unreasonable and we are marginalising a significant proportion of citizens even from basic services. We even tax will soon be completely transferred to digital formats, which are like these absolutely basic services. Some people feel like outsiders, and that is what I wanted to warn you about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u254	Mr President! Good attention, good comments. To this timetable I could have said in the first place that the idea is that — it may still be challenging — next year, 20 would be to introduce this, but the actual statutory reporting would then be from the beginning of 21, i.e. from next year the law will come into force, but next year it would also be this training in those regions, defining these uniform, not criteria but reporting things and other things, plus then asking how the local authorities will get into that system. There is also the question of whether this 30 million will be enough for next year — I think it will be 40 million. Absolutely not. In other words, many municipalities have already invested hundreds of millions of euros in various digitalization systems, which are entirely related to workers' tools and partly, as was the case here, including citizens and customers, municipal services. We have another way that's coming to this mess. In other words, when you start thinking about the social fabric in the area, you have already had these developments in digitalization and patient information systems and others. And there will also be an opportunity at the end of this year to apply for funding to shape this whole social welfare structure, which in part also means this digitalization of the social security sector. Similarly, we have decided to combine it with Vimana and SoteDigi into a single company called SoteDigi, which will then be supported by it. With regard to these purchases and purchases, there is also a development of the so-called Hilma system, through which public procurement is made, in which, of course, all the producers of services and the producers of goods are to be integrated into the system, i.e. these invoicing systems. And then, at the same time, we need to remember and note and know that we all have, as a proposal here last winter, at least an implementing law for information management, which must be taken into account. Then, through the EU, we also have different obligations, e-invoices and everything else, so that we already have the things that the municipalities need to take into account at the beginning of next year. And there's this one. But it is really important that, at the same time, we are able to look at the points that must be reported in the same way that those systems will of course then work. Then this separate attention to the citizens' point of view: Yes, good work has already been done in some areas, and there is a project going on on that side of the Celebrity—that is the project funded by this kind of digital support at the moment, i.e. how the few hundred thousand people who do not want to, cannot, are not able to, who do not have the equipment, remain involved in these systems — so that they can get some kind of personal support, whether to provide these services or some other alternative model then to deal with those things when they are not able to use the digital model themselves. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u255	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u256	Mr President! Finland is certainly the most successful parliamentary democracy in the world — at least if we see it as a measure of the fact that, when we met in 1906, we were still one of the poorest countries in Europe, and today we are one of the wealthiest countries in Europe and we are almost on the meter as we estimate internationally to be among the five most successful countries in the world. So in this sense we can think that parliamentary democracy and parliament in Finland have succeeded in making good decisions, good legislation and thus building a good society. Mr President! It is, of course, wonderful that civil society has also evolved and that the Constitution has lived in time to enable the citizens' initiative to take initiatives in legislation, and that this has become a very active part of the way Finns participate — one might say — in today's politics. But, Mr President, when things are rarely very black and white — as they can easily appear to the author — so rarely will such a citizens' initiative lead to a real legislative change. I therefore wonder whether, when discussing the development of the citizens' initiative, for example, the number of signatories to the citizens' initiative should be raised so that so many citizens' initiatives would not come here in Parliament, so that the citizens' initiatives that will come might perhaps even be dealt with in greater detail and could even lead to the fact that, if the majority of the Parliament considers it to be so, the preparation would be guided by the fact that the government, as its own proposal, would then bring forward a proposal which would actually change the legislation. Mr President! This is a very technical proposal, but I think it would be good to have this debate. It is true that even this autumn Parliament has been able to discuss a number of important and topical issues when they have come to Parliament through citizens' initiatives, but it is likely that very few, if any of these initiatives as such are going to the law. In this respect, it might be necessary to consider reforms in order to strengthen the importance of this institution, which is itself necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u257	Mr President! We now have this institution of citizens' initiatives in the debate and to bring it into line with the conditions set by the EU. In fact, this is also an opportunity to discuss — as Mr Autto has already opened this debate here — the institution of citizens' initiatives itself and its development needs. I would also take this opportunity to take advantage of the fact that I myself have had the opportunity to participate very strongly in the gathering of one citizens' initiative, which was then awarded 85,000 signatures and which was also dealt with here in Parliament — when learning by doing, by doing, has learned. And here are some comments which might be worth taking into account when developing this institution of citizens' initiatives in the future. The first thing to say is, of course, that Finnish society, according to its constitution, is anchored in democratic decision-making, but we have one form of democracy in place, namely representative democracy, which is the dominant form of decision-making. In Finland, this hall is precisely the highest decision-making place in our representative democracy. We also have sprouts — and there are systems that are longer than Finland, but we also have sprouts — from the forms of direct democracy. There are two ways in which we can give way to direct democracy: of course, a direct referendum is one way, and another has been this institution of citizens' initiatives. This type of institution of citizens' initiative is also part of the Constitution of the European Union — I courageously use the term, even though it is only called the Treaty of Lisbon — which, through the signature of a million EU citizens, brings the citizens' initiative into the Union's decision-making system. Of course, Finland has satisfied itself with a completely different number, i.e. 50,000 signatures, with which this citizens' initiative will enter into force if it is possible to put them together in six months. These advantages and forms of direct democracy are very much to be welcomed. They refine and develop our democracy forward, give forms of participation to the citizens, and above all, as Mr Autto has said in his speech, raise important questions, perhaps issues that do not come into this Chamber through government proposals or through legislative initiatives by parliamentarians. Then a few comments on the experience that I have seen and lived through as the author of the citizens' initiative. First of all, the pain point of our representative democracy — I say it in this way, when it really means the pain point in many countries — is the role of the fourth state power. In other words, the leading media in this country shape a great deal of policy agenda and ultimately create a reality picture on the basis of which decisions are also taken in representative democracy. The success of the citizens' initiative institution is based, as a first step, on the fact that the mainstream media give the space. If the mainstream media gives a public space to a citizen’s initiative, it goes through and if it does not give it to one reason or another — the subject is so sensitive, difficult or another — it does not pass. In other words, of this group of citizens — which, in my opinion, have already been made more than 500, if I remember the chapter correctly, it may be that I am wrong here — those which media, the mainstream media in particular, have very great opportunities for passing. I myself know from our own initiative on the renewal of the pension system that, when we got space in the mainstream media, at that moment we got 10,000 signatures right away, on the same day — right away. So the role of the media was absolutely crucial. If the media does not give the space — as it did in another citizens' initiative, which was made to whom it was not obtained — then we will not be able to pass it through. So the role of the media is a very, very critical issue, and it is also worth looking at with an open mind, understanding the role of the media, but also evaluating it. The second point which comes up against and which is also reflected in this bill is the role in which, in what way, these signatures are put together. It is dominantly digital over the Internet. I have just spoken about the fact that we have a large group of people over 75 years of age, 80% who do not have a computer available. So when it comes to the issue of older people through the citizens' initiative, there is a much more hopeless situation when it comes to collecting the 50,000 signatures than when it comes to raising a theme that is, for example, acute, essential and significant for young people, because they live in the digital world and are able to react immediately. This is a major problem with which we are dealing, that digitalisation determines the fate of the citizens' initiative. We clearly have some aspects, such as the problems of the elderly, which in the same way will not be able to arise — unless, as I said, the media give it room — as other types of people do. This is a structural problem, nobody can be accused of it, it is a structural situation, but it is also good to be aware in this respect that this threshold exists for the citizens' initiative. It's important to recognize it. As a third point, I wanted to highlight the way in which the citizens' initiative is dealt with in this plenary session of Parliament, as Mr Autto has already pointed out in his own speech. How do we deal with it? The basic idea is that, through legislation, the citizens' initiative should be dealt with in the same order of urgency, at the same level as the government's proposals. And they come here for a referral debate, they go to the committee — and yes, the committees have also often dealt with them — and then they come here to the plenary session, but, depending on the situation, they live or are lifeless. Then there is this big question, which is in this government proposal and which concerns the issue at hand, that is, the issue of age limits. Within the European Union, traffic has been carried so that the citizens' initiative can also be signed by a so-called minor in Finland, a person who does not have the right to vote, i.e. from 16 years of age. This is something worth considering, because of course this could be an alternative to raising citizens, especially young people, to taking a stand on social issues, despite the fact that they do not yet have the actual right to vote. This is a big question. In Finland, we have taken the view — which is also justified — that the voting age, that is, the 18-year-old age, is the right to sign the citizens' initiative. Mr President! There is a red light here, 7 minutes is closed, do I have to go and ask for another speech? It would have been a big thing for me to raise here, that is, this number of signatories, which Mr Autto raised here. [Second Vice-PresidentJuhoEerola :I am afraid another speaker will have to be asked. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u260	You have plenty of time, because there is Mr Vestman here, who is waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u261	Mr President! Despite the technical nature of this government's proposal, I would like to draw attention, like the previous speakers, to a few broader points concerning this institution of citizens' initiatives. I agree with Mr Car that we have a well-functioning representative democracy based on parliamentaryism, and it is an excellent guarantee of citizens' influence, but it is important, in parallel, that we have such channels of direct democracy, and I believe that this institution of citizens' initiative has proved to be a very effective channel of direct influence. I would like to draw attention to the issue of these citizens' initiatives here in Parliament, which has been touched upon in the previous speeches. Firstly, several citizens' initiatives have already been discussed here this autumn. The citizens' initiative on the cancellation of a residence permit convicted of sexual offences and the expulsion of a convicted person has been discussed here, the consent 2018 citizens' initiative and the citizens' initiative on the reform of the Mining Act has been discussed here. What is more, the citizens' initiative on the abolition of the diesel power tax, which, by the way, collected almost 125,000 signatures, has been discussed here. I have taken part in almost every debate in this Chamber and have made a few comments on this Chamber. Firstly, it is extremely important when the citizens' initiative is here in the referral debate that the ministers concerned take part in that debate. Here I quoted, with regard to the citizens' initiative on the reform of the Mining Act, how much more fruitful the debate on this citizens' initiative was when the Minister was here to reply, and this is certainly something that deserves further attention. Secondly, I believe that the way to show respect for the citizens' initiative is by involving as many Members as possible. I think that this is also a reason to draw attention to the activities of our representatives. Mrs Kiljunen also raised the issue of how this citizens' initiative will arise in the media, and it will certainly have, or may have, an impact on how this citizens' initiative will then be translated into legislation in the future, but that is something that we can influence here in Parliament. In addition to this Chamber, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the committees also have an influence on how to deal with these citizens' initiatives, and these public consultations have been excellent. This committee's work will also enable the citizens' initiative to be supported, and I would also like to raise this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u262	Mr President! It is a real shame to hear from the coalition that this institution of citizens' initiatives should be reduced in such a way that this number of signatures should be increased. It is precisely for the citizens' initiative institution to have the opportunity to bring matters before Parliament as easily as possible, because, unfortunately, through representative democracy it is around a few corners. At the moment, Finns are already feeling that they are unfortunately not getting enough of their voice. We do not have the turnout at a high enough level and this kind of civic activism and new ways seem to take over, and for that it is extremely appropriate that we have this civic initiative institution. Since 2012, when this citizens' initiative was introduced, we have only dealt with 28 citizens' initiatives — since 2012 — so it will not be any number if we see how many years have gone by. Some of them lead to legislation, as we have seen, some of them slip into the next government programmes, as we have seen, and, above all, those who do not directly end up in legislation will lead to a huge social debate on various important issues, as has been mentioned here: for example, we have been talking about expulsions or gas taxes and other similar or, for example, the Veikkaus now – this debate has also risen through the citizens' initiative. In other words, these are also extremely important channels for citizens to make it possible for them to have a joint debate on such themes that would otherwise not arise, and that is why it would be very regrettable if we were now to go in the direction of taking away the power from the citizens they have been given, by setting a new limit to raise it from 50,000 to 100,000. I can tell you that after that, at least — if we talk about matters relating to pensioners — it is quite difficult to collect 100,000 paper forms unless you go online to sign, that is to say, this is also a question of equality. One more point of view I would like to bring to this debate, and that is that the citizens' initiative is also a channel for just such groups to bring matters here for discussion which are not represented here in a representative way, as is the case with young people. We are not represented here in the same proportion as we are in society. Also, people coming from a slightly lower-income background in socio-economic terms are not represented, and this is therefore an incredibly important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not opening up a wider debate here, but I will give Mr Auto a reply when his speech was referred directly to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u265	Mr President! We really are a representative. Tynkkynen fully agrees with the importance of the citizens' initiative and how it serves Finnish representative parliamentary democracy. My own concern, and why I was thinking out loud about it, relates to the fact that, when these citizens' initiatives, I believe in this way, at an accelerated rate in the future, Parliament will be able to reach a situation in which it is also felt that they are actually going to the law when the majority of Parliament can accept the ideas put forward so that, in that sense, we do not disagree with Mr Tynkkyse on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u268	Nor do we raise the time limit for the debate. That's a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u269	Mr President! I would also like to take this opportunity to speak more generally on citizens' initiatives. Indeed, as has already been said in this Chamber, we have been able to address a number of important citizens' initiatives and issues during this period, and I think it is very valuable that this is the case, and I consider these citizens' initiatives to be an important part of democracy and citizens' empowerment. Indeed, these citizens' initiatives play an important role in bringing matters to the public debate and here to the agenda of Parliament. And yet, as has been said here, even if those citizens' initiatives as such do not go through and enter into legislation or lead to legislative change, they will at best sparr and take legislative preparation in the direction to which it has wanted to change the world, and thus the impact can be significant. The citizens' initiatives in this Chamber show that a great deal of effort has been made towards them. Those names, the 50,000 names, do not come easily, however, but require work, and then the citizens' initiatives deserve to be dealt with in this Chamber and in this House. The question of substance is that this EU regulation allows the initiative to lower its age limit to 16 years. There is no position at this stage, but the issue of age limits will be dealt with later in the parliamentary working group, which will examine the development needs of party law, electoral funding law and electoral law, and this work will start this year. Climate strikes and climate demonstrations have shown that young people have the will and the ability to influence, and it is very important that we also offer young people the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, this citizens' initiative law was indeed amended so that the amendment, which came into force at the beginning of June, was aimed at preventing the cessation of initiatives as Parliament changed by extending to a year the deadline for the responsible persons to submit declarations of support. I also thought this was an important change that we should rather — I think — try to develop this institution in the direction that it is a meaningful way of influencing the public and bring matters to the public debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u270	Mr President! There was talk of media activities with these citizens' initiatives, and I have to say that they have a big impact on it, but if you look at this own citizens' initiative, the media did everything in their power not to get these 50,000 names, but in just six weeks 50,000 names were fulfilled. I'm sure that's where the social media comes in, which will help us collect these names. But as the previous representative said, this gathering of 50,000 names is not an easy and obvious matter. Yes, it must be a subject of opinion. Then, from that decrease in the age limit, I would be lowering it just because young people too would be interested in day politics and have the opportunity to influence it. Which means I'd lower this age limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u271	Mr President! The citizens' initiative is an important institution, and it is appropriate to discuss it in a diverse manner, even in the context of such a technical bill. That change in the number of signatories is, of course, a complex issue. Personally, I would not go there because such a number has now been set and it is working at the moment and it sets a certain limit on what kind of initiatives are going to be taken here in Parliament. This has previously been discussed, for example, in relation to maintaining Malmi Airport and then bringing up a similar matter in a smaller city: perhaps there are no 50,000 inhabitants in a smaller city to whom it would apply, and therefore there would not be enough signatures for the initiative that it will end up in parliament, compared to Malmi, when this kind of population mass is easy to find. This is, of course, a problem, but I do not have a direct solution to it. In other words, it is a concern that when we talk about citizens' initiatives they should not be NGO initiatives. After all, how many citizens' initiatives, which have ended up in this House, have genuinely started from the concern of individual citizens without any kind of organisation — in the worst case, an organisation that enjoys taxpayers' money? In other words, non-governmental organisations are trying to legislate on issues that have not been brought into the government programme, through the citizens' initiative, through publicity, and on the other hand, parties and politicians are trying to put things under the counter, so to speak, past the government programme. This phenomenon has also been observed in many governmental periods, and a citizens' initiative was, in a way, passed through the parliament. This is hardly what the citizens' initiative is intended to do, but rather as a way of expressing the concerns they have, rather than as a means for us politicians to bring things up, because we can take legal initiatives. One of the reasons why citizens' initiatives are needed is that it is common knowledge that the legislative initiatives of individual parliamentarians or even smaller MPs are not dealt with in practice in Parliament but are buried in committees. Even the legislative initiatives of more than 100 signatories, the parliamentary bill, have not become legislation, although they should in principle come if the majority of Parliament is behind them. Is this one of the reasons why there is more demand for a citizens' initiative, that it is felt that contacting a Member of the European Parliament and thus taking the bill forward will not be able to influence matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u272	Mr President! The citizens' initiative plays a very important role influencing the people. Yes, they are important forms of action. Citizens' initiatives are also possible in municipalities. As many municipal decision-makers know, they sometimes move there, but there are too few. In fact, more attention should be paid to the influence of citizens, how that would happen. Citizens should be involved at the early stage when they are dealt with — that is, at an early stage when citizens should be involved. Well, then, what would be a way of doing that? One way might be for questions to be organised in municipalities and cities, and why not in the future even if something like that could be thought of in Parliament? Yes, the role of the citizens is important. They are very much needed as a unit of influence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u273	Mr President! A few comments on this debate and then this which I really wanted to talk about. There was a debate on whether the age limit could be 16 or 18 — 18 years would therefore be the age giving the right to vote. Yes, you could think about the age of 16 on this side of the citizens' initiative, especially given that it would be raising young people in this democratic decision-making system, and when we know that young people in general are very strong, it is said in English, is Sue-oriented, that is, are very focused on a specific issue, this would certainly be an easy way for them to experience it in social decision-making and to be genuinely involved in it. Mr Mäkelä raised the question of whether some NGOs have used this ‘wrong’ institution of citizens’ initiatives. I didn't understand your argument at all. In my opinion, NGOs are citizens' organisations, and in that sense people who take citizens' initiatives as citizens are often active in some NGOs. I understand that if you were of the opinion that the parties should not take advantage of the institution of citizens' initiatives, they should be involved in party political matters. It goes a little wrong because the parties have these forums for representative democracy at their disposal. I would not go out to blame the citizens' initiatives for the fact that different types of people may have different kinds of organisations. I'm sure you'll find them in anyone who's an active citizen. Then the question is that many citizens' initiatives have really led to legislation and debate. Now, for example, there is one thing in the Government Programme that has clearly come up through citizens' initiatives, that is, this Ombudsman for the elderly. It has been on the agenda for a longer time, and initiatives have been taken by citizens. Finally, we have a government that has included it in the government programme and it will be implemented. It is absolutely the case that these institutions of citizens' initiatives play an important role in this respect. Mr Tynkkynen raised the question, criticising Mr Automotive's position on this 50,000 signatures. I agree with Mr Tynkkysen. Try collecting 50,000 signatures, especially when you have to manually collect it. By the way, it is a huge number of citizens. It's a huge job, by the way. Let us not raise the threshold to 100,000, which makes it absurd and makes it even clearer that the media have influence, because the media will be able to dictate whether or not the citizens' initiative is going through. Fifty thousand is definitely the maximum. Actually, I'd think about it the other way around. Would it even be possible to calculate the number of signatories to the citizens' initiative? Not necessarily — do not be alarmed — not necessarily that the citizens' initiative, which would receive 10,000 signatures, for example, should come as a legislative initiative here in Parliament, but that if you have received 10,000 signatures for a citizens' initiative — and otherwise it will be a major task for 10,000 if it is done by hand, as in many cases it will have to be done under certain circumstances, it will lead to the same type of debate as the parliamentary question that the representative is asking the government. In other words, if 10,000 people have expressed their views, then, in a sense, the relevant minister of the Government would be obliged to answer this question equally in writing, giving birth to this debate. It would be a softened form of the citizens' initiative when 10,000 are already large, large and the vast majority of citizens' initiatives, that is, the vast majority, will never reach the 10,000. In other words, if you get 10,000 signatures, it is already a serious citizens' initiative, and then our decision-making system could breathe in the direction of responding to that citizens' initiative in writing, for example, so that the dialogue between the decision-making system and the citizens would live here. These kinds of ideas could be developed here rather than starting to raise the threshold to even higher levels, which in fact only means increasing the media's influence in this institution of citizens' initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u274	Mr President! As several colleagues have already said, the citizens' initiative has established itself as an important form of political participation and involvement of citizens. I believe that one of the most important aspects of this citizens' initiative is that it illustrates to the public what matters with political decision-making and political choices. However, this government proposal, which is now being discussed, essentially contains real technical changes which, from the point of view of the public, do not significantly change this current system. But I would just like to remind all those who do not know the history of this issue that this has come from the fact that under the Minister of Justice Tuija Brax's Ministry of Justice, that is to say during the parliamentary and government term between 2007 and 2011, the Green Minister of Justice Tuija Brax prepared the Constitution on which this entire system of citizens' initiatives is based today and on which the next government, under the leadership of the then Minister of Justice Anna-Maja Henriksson, prepared the citizens' initiative law. I am very glad that this system exists and works and, as has already been said here, some of the citizens' initiatives have led to actual legislation, some to other responses from political decision-makers. The citizens' initiative is in a rather similar position to those of the MPs, some of which become legislation, some of which are not. That, of course, cannot be achieved in a democracy, because it has already been decided that the citizens' initiative will pass this limit of 50,000 signatories, but that every citizens' initiative deserves careful consideration in Parliament. I also think it is important that, even when the majority of Parliament believes that the citizens' initiative is not being adopted or that it does not lead to action, the matter will be dealt with in plenary and then every Member of Parliament will have to press the button personally too, so to speak, to show his hair whether it is worth it or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u275	Mr President! To this change in the age of support. In this respect, I would be reasonably cautious in the sense that the right to vote will, in a sense, also become a responsibility for the consequences of its voting, since these are, however, legislative measures. It is easy — as a classic example — to believe that you want more punishment when you do not have to think about where to take the money for increased prison care expenditure. So responsibility comes with power. To Mr Kiljunen as a comment: that kind of citizen's question from 10,000 signatories sounds like a very good idea, and I could support it as an idea if it were ever brought to Parliament. On this question of organisation: It is now the case that these major NGOs are already being consulted in Parliament, in committees, in various legislative proposals and in government proposals. They already make their voices heard in Parliament, meet with parliamentarians and visit parliamentary groups. They sometimes have funding from tax resources, from state money, and thus completely different resources to collect signatures and get publicity for these citizens' initiatives than private citizens. They are not on the same line on this issue. That is why I raised the issue of the desperation of this NGO initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u276	Thank you, Chairman! There is a lot of debate in Finland, especially just before the elections, that I should be able to get a little younger than the 18-year-olds to decide on the election because they are affected by so many things that are decided upon. And then there are always some who justify it in such a way that, well, perhaps not now in these general elections, because here we are now deciding representatively who will pass through and talking about such a hugely complex issue that will be decided upon. And then again, with regard to this system of citizens' initiatives, it is very specific matters which are being dealt with. And you could say this, I think that perhaps in a way, at least, it would be possible to move forward on how young people are able to make a very concrete contribution to legislation. I would say that this could be a compromise solution by reducing the age limit for participation in citizens' initiatives to 16 years. Young people have a lot of issues that they would like to bring to decision-making, and we representatives are generally a little older all — I am no longer a 16-year-old teenager, so perhaps I no longer understand in the same way what is going on in the world. And I believe that these young people could also be very active in being those who, in connection with different festivals, are then collecting those signatures on the things that matter to them. And that, for example, what MPs such as Ari Koponen and Kiljunen and others have been saying, we could really consider together that if we were to calculate the age limit at this point to 16 years of age. At the same time, it would also serve as a specific test, perhaps, that it then activates young people. And I have a strong belief that it will really act forcefully on young people, including the High School League, including Nuva, for many others. These institutions too may become much more important because they start to create things like this, which are then directly pushed into the law. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u277	Mr President! This would create a very good and constructive debate, and I think Mr Kiljunen has made an interesting opening to look at this whole institution of citizens' initiatives from the point of view of whether there would be more measures comparable to those taken by citizens, such as the citizens' question, perhaps the citizens' initiative and then the citizens' initiative aimed at amending the law or adopting a whole new law. It is certainly necessary to hold such a debate if, for example, we are to move in the direction suggested by Mrs Kiljunen that these necessary signatures should be reduced. What I am particularly concerned about is that, when we open up and have opened up an excellent channel for citizens to influence, it is important that it should be perceived as a meaningful channel that works precisely for that purpose, so that it will have concrete effects. And, indeed, when it comes to amending the law, for example, to initiatives taken by parliamentarians, the initiative signed by, for example, 100 MPs does not necessarily go as far as the report, and, in theory, one might think that there is still a mandate given by 1.5 million voters when half of Parliament has signed an initiative. In this sense, a whole new debate must be held if we really are to go down these necessary levels of signatures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u278	Mr President! I appreciate the points raised by Mr Tynkkynen and Mr Automotive regarding this idea that now, with 50,000 signatures, the citizens' initiative comes before Parliament and Parliament, like a legislative initiative, if – this was the new idea in it – there were 10,000 signatures, it would lead to another type of procedure, such as the Minister's written response to the citizens' initiative, which would, of course, also be public at the same time. Instead of waiting now for the citizens' initiative on this proposal, do we have to make a joint legislative initiative here and then launch this debate through Parliament, that we want to support this form of direct democracy in this respect? Let's leave it to my colleagues to think about it. I'm not saying I'll leave it to them. Representative Hassi here brought up the history of the Minister of Justice Brax. He stressed that at the initiative of the Green Minister of Justice, Mr Brax, this institution of citizens' initiatives has come to Finland. Now that we go to history, let us look further back at history, because I also know where the future Minister, Mr Brax, got this idea for this citizens' initiative. He was also very much involved in the constitutional process of the European Union and in the background work of the assembly. At the 2003-2004 Convention, this European citizens' initiative, in which a million signatures were required at European level, was developed in the text of the Treaties and is therefore still European legislation on this side. In this respect, I know when this debate with the future Minister, Mr Brax, took place: this is heureka, this institution of citizens' initiatives must also be brought here to Finland. It is great that he started this process in Finland when he was Minister and we now have this form of direct democracy, that is, the institution of citizens' initiatives. Mr President, I would like to refer the debate back to what Mr Vestman has said here, namely how Parliament views these citizens' initiatives, how we deal with them, what image we leave to the citizens who have taken this initiative. I appreciate the fact that there is clearly a simple view in this Chamber today that we must take this initiative seriously and respect it. Some have taken a serious interest in it and managed to obtain tens of thousands of signatures, as I said, often after a huge process of work. As has been said, I myself was the driving force behind this citizens' initiative on pensions and I know what the job is to collect the 50,000 signatures. In this respect, it would be valuable for us, when that matter comes to Parliament, to be present when every citizen's initiative is being discussed here. It shows our appreciation for this institution, including the citizens. And a great idea on Congressman Vestman: present the minister. The Minister will make us take a stand in relation to the Government, and the Minister will also show authority to take this matter fully seriously on the part of Parliament. These are the little gestures, but they show it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u279	Mr President! As a representative Tynkkynen pointed out very well, the number of these citizens' initiatives has been quite insignificant over the years, and has it now, even though they have now come here more in the last few months, been a problem here? As far as I am concerned, everyone has given rise to a very good debate here, and just that debate, which brings these issues to a debate, is almost the most important thing that can be done with these citizens' initiatives. So it's nothing more than more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u280	Mr President! I do not intend to continue this debate otherwise, but now that this has been done thoroughly: This speech was precisely important, which means that these citizens' initiatives are on the move very seriously when discussing the nature of the debates in this plenary session. In most cases, exceptionally interesting debates arise from these citizens' initiatives. Not only has civil society talked about these things, but the press has also spoken about them, they are time-related issues, and they most often concern people. That is why this initiative has been taken, and that is why we in this House, too, are, in a way, making direct contact with citizens between elections, because this is a form of direct democracy, this institution of citizens' initiatives. That is why we must give it its proper value and, rather, support its institution to be strengthened rather than weakened.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u281	Mr President! I fully agree that the citizens' initiatives have produced very good debates here in the great Chamber of Parliament — when Mrs Kiljunen expressed appreciation for the proposals for improvements made by Mrs Vestman in relation to this practical discussion, that, for example, the relevant minister in the administrative sector is always present when Parliament has a referral debate on the citizens' initiative, and in the same way, I think it is very important and worthy of support. But my own original point I want to bring to this: Now, as it were, that these citizens' initiatives promote the role of such a parliamentary debate initiative, it should not be so, but that the citizens' initiative is set up as a constitutional procedure for citizens to take a direct democratic initiative to change legislation. And this seems to me to be the good thinking of Mr Kiljunen that there should be more tools available to citizens in order to think that this direct democracy could then be strengthened alongside this representative democracy. That is what I was looking for when I originally wanted to raise the debate on whether we should even look at the increase in this number of signatures when we are actually talking about an initiative to amend the law. But I fully agree that it is good that these initiatives are being taken and that there is a debate on topical issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u282	Mr President! Now again we have to correct these misconceptions. It is not a question of wanting to have some sort of discussion initiative here with these 50,000 people; it is a question of serious citizens wanting to change the legislation, and that limit of 50,000 names is already difficult to get. And if it is the case that, for example, the desired legislative change is not possible because, for example, the Constitution is so tough to change that one thing that is not possible because of the need for the approval of a couple of parliaments for a constitutional change, then at least the legislative judgement has been made which, as it were, will be a by-product of the social debate that will be retained for future parliaments as well. They are not, in principle, made with the idea that they would be made into a debate initiative, but precisely because the legislation would change, and that is why the 50,000 limit is good, and if we have to think about it in some way, then we would rather go down rather than up. And last but not least, I should like to thank Mr Kiljune very much for the fact that, as it were... well, it goes with this same abbreviation as we have here in Parliament, KK, a written question. KK, it would be like a citizen's question or anything. Such a new instrument could actually be brought into this direct democracy. Then another point was that it is also a good thing that if the citizens get through the citizens' initiative, then it is also possible to bring people to this forum, where we are in representative democracy, that is, these public hearings. We often have a citizens' initiative in there... Now we are on the second floor, but on the fourth floor there is that Arkadia Hall, then there is a picture, and those who have launched its initiative will be able to speak more about it in an expert role to this prestigious institution and also to invite other experts in general, which they consider should come here, which perhaps would not be understood otherwise. In other words, we will also have these public hearings, and there Members of Parliament will then be asking various questions from these citizens who have come to this house. So, in this sense too, this is an extremely fine thing, and that is why it is not worth raising the 50,000. The fact that it is 100,000 would not in itself make it somehow more valuable. They are all valuable, and we already have the number of signatures — if you think that the number brings weight, it can now be over 50,000, and then the sky alone is the limit, and I think everyone will pay attention to it if 200,000 are brought closer. — Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u283	The time is full here, but there is one speech here, and Mr Kiljunen — do you like it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u284	Mr President, thank you for this. Mr Tynkkysen's speech: I agree with you more than I agree with you, not just because you supported the idea which I pointed out that it could be a more varied way of dealing with these citizens' initiatives. So that 50,000 signatures will lead to a legal initiative, and 10,000 could lead to a question like a written question with the Minister’s answers. And I would like to say to Mr Auto, when you too support this idea — I am glad that this is the case: let us not raise the question that more than 50,000 have to have these signatures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u287	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u288	Madam President! I believe that this new plant health law is, if I am not mistaken, the first report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which is now being enacted by this new Parliament. While this may seem a very technical change to Finnish legislation as part of EU legislation, our daily bread is of enormous importance to all of us. In this respect, we Finns are fortunate that we have traditionally had a good plant health situation, much better than the European average. For example, plant protection products need to be used much less than elsewhere and, therefore, these pesticide residues of plant protection products do not accumulate in our bodies in the way that fellow people do in the south of Europe. In this respect, it is important that we have up-to-date plant health legislation so that the plant health situation in Finland is good. With great pleasure, we can now adopt this legislation on the basis of both the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the content adopted by Parliament at first reading. I would also like to thank the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, both in the government and in the opposition, for the smooth progress that has been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u289	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-05-ps-58.u290	Madam President! Finland is a long and fine country and we really have air transport as an integral part of our transport system. In this respect, the competitiveness of air transport is important for many of our industries. And in that sense thank you — if there is a government to be commended, then for this suggestion that the air traffic control fee should be reduced. Although such a 10% reduction in the fee may seem small, the overall impact will be significant as more than 20 million air passengers pass through Finavia's airports every year. In other words, with great pleasure, we can certainly also adopt this legislation.
