ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u1	A point of order 3 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u2	Mr President! The aim of this government proposal is to partially implement the Council of Europe Directive on the work of the fisheries sector. In practice, this means that ships under 24 metres will also be included in the scope of the law with regard to the provisions relating to the accommodation, food and catering of the vessel. This Directive concerns fishing in marine waters. In its report, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities considers this proposal necessary and supports its adoption. In the feedback, the Finnish Association of Professional Fishermen drew attention to issues that are intended to be specified in more detail by Government decree. Mr President! I think it is important that changes in the fisheries sector should involve professional fishermen who are doing valuable work to secure our food supply and food. It is important that we improve the conditions for workers in an international agreement, but it is also important that national specificities can be taken into account. When it comes to the fishing industry, attention must be paid to the importance of increasing the use of domestic fish. The only way to increase the use of domestic fish is by promoting professional fishing and also fish farming. It should also be noted that the fishing industry brings considerable work to sparsely populated areas. Fish is healthy food, but we import far too much of it from abroad. It would be better for both the environment and the economy of our country if we could use healthy and safe local fish. Finns eat more and more fish, but they import more and more fish from abroad. According to the Natural Resources Centre, the demand for fish in our country has almost doubled since the 1980s, but in the 2000s the consumption of domestic fish has decreased by about a third. The share of imported fish is already over 80%. How can we make a change of direction in this regard? At least we could contribute in such a way that we would favour domestic fish in public and private fish procurement. Mr President! The Centre considers it very important that we safeguard the opportunities of the domestic fishing industry and also of leisure fishermen. The Government Programme has taken excellent account of the fishing industry and access to domestic fish for consumers. That is something we can be very satisfied with, and it is also important to take these things forward together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u3	Madam President! This proposal is largely concerned with the implementation of EU legislation. It is a question of fishing vessels used at sea. If we think about this day, it is historic in terms of shipping and fishing. Finland has been sailing on football seas for decades. We've been in the wind and in the wind trying to fish for the men's national team. Today it's closer than ever to getting a real king salmon. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u6	Here perhaps the word “fish ” relates to the subject. Let us go into this text of the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u7	Mr President! The sea is close to my heart, and also its offerings. We're talking about fishing, and we're talking about a representative. It was well pointed out that we eat too little domestic fish. Generally speaking, we could all say here in Parliament that whenever possible — in public procurement, in our own everyday decisions — we would prefer domestic products. Surely there is no such person in this Chamber as we representatives who cannot afford to do so. In fact, I have often hoped that Parliament would make such a declaration that we always use domestic products — fish, milk, meat, vegetables, whatever — that is, domestic choice. I myself am concerned about the same things as Mr Aittakumpu. The city centre, when you are on the board, could consider the legislation on public procurement. But it's great that the ocean is now the topic of discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u8	Mr President! I do not know whether I will stick to the subject, but probably closer than Mr Arhinmäki, even though I agree with his conclusions. But this debate on domestic fish, initiated by Mr Aittakummu, is extremely important, and there is quite a paradox that when the use of fish is constantly increasing and the export of fish from Finland is also increasing — and export permits were also opened to China, for example — then, at the same time, the production of domestic fish is decreasing. I understand that this is a reasonably difficult question when we go to these fishing permits and, of course, it also has certain environmental effects, but we should be able to promote fish farming in this country. It would also be right that when we are constantly increasing the consumption of fish, we should also increase our own rearing. And again, Mr President, I would like to say something about these public procurements. At one point, I was also able to take on the role of chairman of the Parliament's restaurant committee, and it was in that role that we, together with our suppliers and the providers of restaurant services, went through the fact that we were able to increase this degree of domesticity, and we were able to reach around 90 per cent. And the reason why we did not get over it was precisely because there is so much fish and so little fish available here too. That this is really a serious question, how to get more and more domestic fish production in Finland, and then export as well, because we have very important fish experts. And finally, next week in Sastamala, an investment of almost EUR 30 million in the largest fish processing plant in the Nordic countries will be completed and the President of Parliament will be the opening of the event.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u10	Madam President! Congressman Satonen intervened in an important matter. Finns want to eat more fish, and they would like to eat more Finnish fish, but at the moment 80 per cent of the fish that Finns eat has been imported from outside the country's borders. In a land of thousands of lakes, that's a little unusual news. And, the present government, when you here praised very much that you want to promote the eating of domestic fish and the consumption of fish, you must also look at these environmental permits with a critical eye, because one of the big problems is that environmental permits are not to be obtained, especially in the marine regions — when the sea came up — and now that these environmental permits are not available, then we must critically assess why this is the case. The sector itself has already reduced its emissions by 70 to 80 % over the last twenty years, and when animal feed has been developed in such a way that, in fact, it is beginning to be a question of a circular economy of almost 100 %, and when it is exported to the open sea, the criteria of the former world should not be assessed, but we should actually address the shortcomings that prevent the increase in domestic fish farming and the consumption of domestic fish. So this is one important aspect of what the current government really needs to do and not just align itself with its speeches. The second problem concerns Finland's food exports. As far as our food exports are concerned, the trade deficit has increased over the years, although the government and Parliament disagree and want to increase food exports. At the moment, according to my memory, the trade balance for food exports is minus 3 billion, and in fact, although statistics show that food exports have increased this year, it is purely because Finland has exported Norwegian salmon for 100 million or 150 million. The Norwegian salmon comes through Finland, and it adorns statistics. In fact, food exports are completely stagnant.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u11	I would now like to point out that we are dealing with the application of the directive on the food and catering of accommodations on board fishing vessels, i.e. the status of workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u12	Madam Speaker! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the President, as the last word, has said food supply, and that is what I myself am thinking of talking about. You don't always have to go any further than the sea to fish. It was mentioned here that there are problems with the fact that, if fish farming is carried out, it may be a problem, especially in inland waters, for feeding and feeding. In Finland, in the land of thousands of lakes, we have had a huge number of broken fish mentioned as garbage fish in the past decades, and, for example, pike up to Central Finland may also be placed in a basket that even speaks of junk fish. But there are progressive municipalities, such as Kiuruvesi, my municipality of residence: no other municipality in Finland cooperates as efficiently with local fishermen as they do there, and our public food services, children, the elderly, other kitchens offer weekly fish produced from nearby lakes. This is a very good example of how, at the same time, we can ensure that our shallow waters do not over-refine, and use healthy lake fish for the benefit of the children, and in that way also to the awareness that the pikes, pikes, are also quite good food fish and it is worth taking advantage of. It's good for the local economy. It was referred to here that the procurement law should be amended in this respect. Not if you know how to apply it. There are municipalities in Finland that can apply it well, and the fish ends up in the right place, on people's plates.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u13	Let us stick to the subject, and there is a reason behind it that we have a half-hour sitting and we stop on the side. There are still speeches to be made on other subjects. Let us stick to this subject, which will perhaps shorten the speeches a little.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u14	Mr President! Mr Aittakumpu raised a very important issue: that more fish should be eaten in our households and, in particular, in public institutions. There in Varsinais-Suomi we have a lot of professional fishermen. Their conditions for getting that fish are deteriorating, and it is up to us representatives to make it easier for them to have that Finnish fish, domestic fish, local food — it is, of course, the end place for everyone to get that local food on the tables. And, indeed, I cannot fail to mention the fact that Finland is making a possible history today — a great deal of fishing luck for the buzzards!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u15	Madam President! However, since fish have been mentioned here, it has to be said that there is a clear entry in the Government Programme that ‘the supply of domestic fish is increased and the share of consumption isresistably increased by establishing a domesticpromotion programme’. So it's a good thing it's put in this government program, and I'm looking forward to it. Mr Satonen raised these issues of authorisation and of the environment. It's just that there are significant bottlenecks. Sastamalainen Kalauvos Oy has received export licences, including to China, but there are quite a few factors in these fish farms that could be smoothed out. Then on this food and fish in general: during the last parliamentary term, there was a food policy report with good withdrawals, for example, that more bottled water is imported to Finland than bottled water is exported from Finland. It is worth paying attention to these issues, though, to the fact that exports can be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u16	Madam President! I'm going to swim on this subject, maybe just the way it's supposed to be. I think it is particularly good that safety issues and the status of workers are also improved on these ships. As far as fishing is concerned, it may be said of what we previously thought was so-called junk fish, which has since been less valuable fish, that, at the moment, in the Baltic Sea, and especially in Finland, skewers and pikes are being fished for industrial production, and that, in accordance with the Government Programme, domestic fish are being imported and produced for food to Finnish consumers. This has been something where Finland has been a pioneer — not only in the use of lake fish but also in the use of sea breeches — and now we are waiting for Sweden to be eager to copy this. Let us hope that, when this change in the fleet requires an improvement in the status of workers, it will make this fishing possible. However, for Mr Eestilä: quite quickly these permit issues came to the five-month-old government when you saw the same problems in Satakunta, too, there in Luvia during the last reign, and there was no need for the government to intervene in this process of licensing. Let us hope that we keep the nets in the water and not try to fish only for political votes here, as Mr Eestilä did.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u17	Madam President! Of course, fish eating is absolutely healthy according to research. However, I would like to remind you, on a very topical point, that we have asked Mr Kiuru a written question about the height of inland waterways, lakes, water surfaces. More water from lakes is constantly being used than from new ones, because winter snow melts are very small water risers, and this also endangers the success of spawning, for example. So let this be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u18	Mr President! It is extremely gratifying to listen to this debate. There's a very warm atmosphere in this room. It is great that we are talking about seafood and that we Finns should eat more fish than domestic fish. In order for us to have more domestic fish, we must have workers on board the vessels there. What is now being decided: according to Article 14 of the Law on the working and living environment of crews and on-board catering, the shipowner will ensure that the crew has the possibility of free eating during the working period. The committee notes, therefore, that this is from the committee's report that, after this amendment, the rule of free food also applies to all fishing vessels less than 24 metres in length. This is just great. Now men and women are able to do their job better, and hopefully they have healthy, varied food there. Representative The sea here listed these good food groups. I'd like to add some more Finnish mushrooms. We have a huge treasure in our forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u20	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u21	Madam President! It is now proposed to amend the Health Care Act and the Act on the State's share of basic municipal services. This change will improve the implementation of the linguistic rights of the population of the Hospital District of Vaasa in emergency services, so that Vaasa is connected to the hospitals of a wide range of emergency services. At the moment, there are already comprehensive emergency services in Vaasa, but with this change they will increase in two specific areas. At the same time, however, it should be noted that the national functioning of on-call services should be viewed across Finland in such a way that people are in an equal, equal position both in terms of access and the realisation of linguistic rights. The second issue dealt with in committee was the opinions needed for the courts, medical opinions, and this reform relates to the development of an insurance doctor's system aimed at increasing the transparency of the insurance doctor system and the public's confidence in the system. It is a great thing that this has now been agreed in such a way that legal certainty and the transparency and reliability of the medical assessment can be increased. This is to be done in such a way that the Hospital District of Pohjois-Savo establishes an expert group in which all hospital districts maintaining a university hospital appoint experts. At the moment, asking for these statements has been moderate, but now that this legislative amendment comes, care must be taken to monitor the number of these statements. When those experts from different university hospitals give those statements, they use their valuable working hours, which are often out of clinical work, and they are top experts. In other words, the number of these statements and also the compensation and the fact that they then correspond to the amount of work that these persons, the experts, are out of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u22	Madam President! This presentation introduces an obligation for the Hospital District of Vaasa to arrange a large unit of 24-hour emergency services in connection with its central hospital. This matter was discussed, for example, during the last parliamentary term, when there was also a citizens' initiative here. The Finns supported this popular initiative. Vaasa Hospital District has been profiled in the development of patient safety, and the area is also working very hard to achieve it. The fact that the care provider and the carer meet well understand each other’s language and are able to communicate in that way increases patient safety, reduces the damage to the patient. And every single act and action that we can take to prevent a significant amount of costly and human suffering in society must be supported. It is also very important for Finns that services are also available in the Vaasa region in Finnish. This proposal also opens up the reform work on the matter of insurance doctors, on which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health last year also dealt with the citizens' initiative, and we added a statement that the need for amending the law will be examined. Finnish MP Jari Ronkainen has worked on a long-term basis, among other things, by means of a legal initiative, so that we can get an insurance doctor system more so that people who are within it feel that they are facing up and that things are working. So it is a great thing that this is also being opened up with this law now, and we are also waiting for further reforms to be made there, which is what the law needs to be done. But it is indeed a good thing, and the Finns of Peru support all measures to increase patient safety throughout Finland as well as the adequacy of emergency services everywhere at national level, so that people can be treated when they need to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u23	Madam President! As Mr Laiho said in his speech here, there are two different points: one on call and the other on insurance. In my own speech, I shall now focus on this issue of on-call duty. We have 20 hospital districts and they have 20 central hospitals. This is a total of EUR 7 billion in so-called net expenditure. Gross expenditure is higher. It also means that, for example, hospitals’ own customer income is included in it. So the question is very important in Finnish society. The previous government decided to renovate these hospital emergency services, and that did not turn out to be a very good outcome. In Finland, these 20 central hospitals are divided in such a way that one third of the total is made up of the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa alone, the second third is made up of four other university hospitals together, and the third is made up of 15 other central hospitals jointly. The fact that 12 hospitals were divided into 12 hospitals, below which eight central hospitals were then placed, meant in practice that when the three largest hospitals which are not now hospitals for extensive 24-hour emergency services — i.e. in practice they are in Hämeenlinna Kanta-Häme, Kotka Kymenlaakso and Vaasa Central Hospital — are in practice as large as the three smallest hospitals that reached the 12, this limit was quite artificial.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u27	Mr President! I made a longer speech on this issue at first reading, and I would now like to thank the government, on behalf of the deputies, for this expected legislative change. I would also like to point out, as Mrs Juvonen said, that the Hospital District of Vaasa has been a pioneer in this area of patient safety for a very long time. For this reason, it would be good to think about it now that the Hospital District of Vaasa becomes a large-scale emergency hospital, that if it were to be given even more national responsibility for the further development of patient safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u28	Mr President! There are two elements of this law, just as has been mentioned here. In fact, the concentration of special care, which focuses both on on-call services and on surgical procedures: I think it is a good thing that it has been evaluated and changed now. In this respect, I think that Mr Lindén has brought about the problems that this regulation has brought about: that it has been thought to the very end that we should have these so-called two-story people. Also, when there was this number, this 12, I never found out where it was based, where it came from. It came sooner than I became a minister, a Minister of the Interior. In any case, the matter has now been corrected. All in all, this regulation requires further correction. It requires a slightly new assessment of surgical procedures. The evaluation was started last season and I hope that this government, as promised in its Government Programme, will re-evaluate it. In particular, in surgical procedures, back surgery and surgery are such that when they are too concentrated, delays in patients have come to light. For example, if cancer surgery is delayed, it is always a dangerous thing. Then there was this insurance business. I think it is very good that it was resolved that the network of central university hospitals is now taking a catch on this. Previously, this same thing was handled through Valvira. Valvira was in very great trouble with it, because the workload was enormous, and then this was not in itself a suitable task for Valvira. Now this is where special care was taken, in particular a network of particularly demanding special care and where experts can be found. I am very much in favour of this change, as is the case with both of them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-15-ps-65.u29	The 12th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 19 November 2019. The Council of Presidents proposes that the procedure proposed by the Council of Presidents on 14 November 2019 be followed at the sole reading of the draft amending budget.
