ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 140 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10668	Thank you, Your Honor. My question goes to the Ministry of Ecology. In recent days, including Sundays, Novi Pazar is on the scale of Europe's most polluted cities. If you rise up to one of the hills above New Pazar, you can see only fog, darkness and one grey that has surpassed this city, and evidence of this is the measurements that show that this city is currently one of the most polluted, not only in the Balkans, but throughout Europe. The Justice and Reconciliation Party has repeatedly pointed to this problem, even a few years ago with the citizens of Novi Pazar, we have launched a petition that those whom we consider to be the largest polluters removed from the populated parts of the city, which are two peletarians, one located near the primary school, in a densely populated place, and the other located next to the university, beside religious facilities, which are protected by UNESCO and which essentially covers most of the New Pazar urban zone. People who live near these butterflies every morning have to take one centimeter of dust off their cars, so they can simply use them, and imagine how it affects primary school students and students, teachers, and all those who continue to fight with all these monsters, including Kvida monsters - 19. Our question and insistence on the Ministry of Ecology goes in this direction to ask them for an emergency response, to conduct investigations, to determine whether these pellets use those filters that are approved, such as in Switzerland, where you also have butterflies and all other factories in Zurich, but thanks to air purification filters, they come out exclusively clean air. Here, when you look over the chimneys of these butterflies, you see one dense, dark, poisonous smoke that descends on a wider territory, which blows the wind around the city and directly endangers the health of all categories of the population. We demand that the Ministry of Ecology urgently take action to examine whether these production plants have permits and satisfactory equipment for the purification of that air, and not only them, but all others who make New Market one of the most polluted cities in the region and Europe these days, in order to provide citizens with essential conditions for normal and healthy life, i.e. how would they exercise the right to live, guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10669	Thank you. The word is Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10670	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Meredith, good afternoon. My question today is for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and that is -- when will conditions be created for the free, public and official use of the national symbols of Albanians? It has been a year since my speech on the need for national minorities to freely, publicly and officially use their national symbols, and the Republic of Serbia continues to be the only country in the region that makes it impossible by law for national minorities to freely and officially use their symbols if they are identical with the symbols of other countries. The degree of impatience towards the Albanian national symbol in Serbia today has also shown us the behaviour of hooligans who have removed the Albanian flag from many places in Belgrade, where it was set up as part of the state protocol when visiting the prime minister of Albania, Mr. Edi Rama. The hooligans may be the direct perpetrators of this vandal act, but it must be pointed out that they are the product of a discourse that supports and feeds anti-Albanian stereotypes, enmity and hatred towards them. Such a discourse author of the "Imaginary Albanian" works, Aleksandar Pavlovic calls Albanianism, relying on the concept of Balkanism by Maria Todorova, who writes a discourse that creates stereotypes about the Balkans and an organic policy related to this discourse. The conclusion is that in this atmosphere of impatience, open hatred and prejudice towards everything that relates to Albanians, discrimination in fundamental rights, the lives of Albanians of the Presevo Valley, and those living in the interior of the Republic of Serbia, are difficult. In the created atmosphere of the denial of war crimes, the glorification of war criminals, in which police are guarded by their murals, the fact is that according to international organisations, Serbia is seriously turning back into democracy, and perhaps we should not wonder why this vandalism of the state does not take legal measures. The authorities are proud of this. It's a nice feeling of pride -- Mesa Selimovic would say -- is defending us from remorse. For many now, there is an open dilemma -- is this impatience towards the flag of Albania part of the Open Balkans project or part of the Vulin Serb world? Dear colleagues, I can only mention vandalism over the Albanian flag of state, but it is my superior duty in this home to ask why Albanians of the Presevo Valley and those living in Serbia cannot freely, publicly and officially use their national symbols, which represent an essential part of their identity? All of us, I hope, are seeking the EU. It is this Europe where we seek to be known for our ability to integrate, to destroy and eliminate diversity. As a country that strives to be part of the EU, although today it is right to ask whether the Republic of Serbia really wants it, this country should abolish discriminatory laws. People are mentally bound to their identity symbols. People often died during history for symbols. So, regardless of the current legal and political negative state that denies our symbols, I can say that we will not give up our identity symbols. We will fight patiently and wait when our identity right on the free, public and official use of national symbols will come true. We believe in such a solution also because this issue in the surrounding countries is already resolved in dialogue with minorities. Until then, we will neither submit nor surrender. After all, to the constant struggle for our identity and the symbols that express it, we are bound by the lyrics of our anthem on the flag -- (the ambassador speaks Albanian). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10671	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10672	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think the previous speaker hurt the Rules of Procedure, but since there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure in this section, and that this last sentence and finding had to ask for an interpreter to know what he said. But, okay. It's not the subject I want to talk about. We're used to that kind of provocation. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, for the SPS parliamentary group, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the temple of democracy and the voice of the people. This is where we legitimately elected representatives of citizens represent and protect the interests of all citizens regardless of their nationality, religious membership, regardless of what religion they belong to, and that we protect the national and state interests of Serbia, which we have committed ourselves as signatories of the oath, as MPs, which, of course, implies an argumentable democratic debate through the delivery of facts, and the facts are always strictly based solely on the truth. The truth is that over the past week, and I can see again, some wanted to portray Serbia as a state that denies crimes, protects individuals who have committed crimes and as a state that has never expressed respect for victims, which is absolutely notorous and false. The final goal is to impose an opinion that Serbia and its citizens are genocide. Apparently, the cause has been a mural that has been on the facade of one of the buildings in downtown Belgrade for months, a mural with which the state has absolutely nothing to do with. As messages are institutionalised in certain countries in the region with the names of those who have committed monstrous crimes against the Serb people, I have not noticed that so-called. Human rights fighters advertise when hatred is directed towards Serbia. That's when they mostly stay silent, then you're mostly quiet. For them is the removal of the mural of Ratko Mladic's face-washing criminal, and when someone removes the tablet of Achif Efendi, tries to remove it, it is an illicit destruction of the tables and incident, although it is common knowledge of who was Achif Efendi, an occupier's associate, someone convicted by a domestic court and someone who received an order from Hitler himself. My question, Mr. President, is addressed to you today, first of all. Do I, as a member of the Parliament, have the right to ask a question, to make findings based on facts, or on truth, and that if someone doesn't like it, I don't become a target? After questions I've asked over the past week through social networks, various portals have organized a kind of hack against me with the most disgusting insults and threats. I'll just say the ones I can call cultural. "Milicevic threatened the Bosniaks". I have never threatened in my life in this House, I have always respected the Ethics Code and Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Someone who is in charge of the fight against national minorities, which I have never done, and "The Great Serb Hawk, someone who is obsessed with Dr. Sulejman Ugljanin", I am very interested in someone who has 0.5% of the vote. "The nationalist - from that accident, those cells moved Milicevic." "You committed genocide." ‘Fascist’. "The snake is beaten in the head, not the tail, and so is the Serbs in Belgrade, not Podgorica and Palama, i.e. the lactators", which is a direct threat, and "The Chetnik from Valjev and the business with Allah", referring to the late Mufti Zukorlic, which is extremely embarrassing. I don't want to read those scandalous messages that are being sent. For the sake of the public, first of all, I want these brave organizers who are hiding behind some portals and hiding behind some false profiles, which will be dealt with by the competent authorities and competent institutions, I want to say only two more sentences. I am always here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, always ready for debate, always ready to face opinions and I know very well what my obligation is, what my responsibility is as a MP to citizens of all nationalities, citizens of Serbia. It's all, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, relatively and variable, so soon this mandate will end in a few months. In one, when it comes to these scandalous messages. The creator of all this was right. I am a Valjevac, and I'm proud of it, everything else I've been told I'm not, but I am a Valjevac, and we in Valjev have a custom to say that we would rather go headless than faceless. And when someone wants to impose injustice through the resolution, then our only resistance is truth and only truth. This is what the SPS parliamentary group will continue to do in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10673	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10674	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever we think that Gilas and Solak's media in Serbia have touched the bottom and that they literally can't be worse, they deny us and show that there is no limit that they can't cross. Why am I saying this? I'm going to make a few examples clear from what their editorial policy is, if it can be called an editorial policy at all, because I would rather say that it is a continuous campaign against Serbia, too, of course, against our national interests and, of course, their main target is always Alexander Vucic, president of the state, who is the key protector of these very national interests. So, in attacks on Alexander Vukic, they absolutely do not care whether it would compromise Serbia's interests, whether it would compromise Serbia's position on both internal and external terms. They're not interested in any of this, except to take advantage of every topic and every opportunity to try to do political damage. I point out -- the attempt, because so far it has not gone with them. We have an example from yesterday, Gilas' tabloid portal "Nova.rs" publishes an article that reads, watch the chairman now, they say – Vukica will be shaken by revenge from Germany, Viola's party takes diplomacy. So let's first explain what this is about if someone else isn't clear yet. It is a green party in Germany, which is likely, although not certain, to be part of the new ruling majority, namely the ruling coalition, and when they say -- the Viola Party, they mean Viola von Kramon, who is the most prominent Albanian lobbyist and at his own recognition. So this is not claimed by anyone in the SNS, she claims herself to be an Albanian lobbyist. So watch out for how many levels this is problematic. Be careful with what kind of, let me say, sweetness they write this. As far as this madness goes, they look forward to having the possibility that in the negotiations on the formation of a new German government, the Foreign Ministry belongs to the Viola von Kramon party, as if it means something in itself now, or I guess if it does, that Viola von Kramon will use her influence to attack Serbia even more strongly, to hit Serbia even stronger, as if she had done a little so far, as if it were a little bit of an open-minded settlement on the Albanian side when it comes to the KIM issue. Let me just show one example, says Viola von Kramon – I am a Kosovo lobbyist, but not paid, I am a lobbyist of the interest of the citizens of Kosovo, I advocate the Kosovo thing. So that's what we're talking about. And now they're collectively looking forward to the party, so they're making what maybe this Viola von Kramon is going to be able to do even stronger attacks on Serbia and even harder to represent Albanian, she says, the thing. Another example from a few days ago, therefore, the same portal is, I cannot, the chairman, look beyond the fact that Mrs. Von Kramon, apart from being openly placed aside by Albanians, so to speak up, to say, in a statement about the action of the so-called. Kosovo police, which severely injured Srecko Sofronijević, where they are so-called. Kosovo police officers, literally armed to the teeth, using the shock of bombs and tear gas, opened fire on the naked Serb people, while Viola von Kramon says -- action against smuggling in Kosovo was needed, it is up to Kosovo authorities to decide when and where to use police forces. So this is what I'm talking about today. We have another example from a few days ago, the same portal is, therefore, new.rs, which seemingly the same news has two different reactions, here's what it is. So, on the news that someone tried to destroy the Achif Efendi board in Novi Pazar, the title reads: "The incident in Novi Pazar, a man tried to destroy the Achif Efendi board," while on the news that someone tried to destroy the mural Ratko Mladic's title reads: "The black paint thrown on the mural of Ratko Mladic, the cleaners washed the face of the criminal." Well shame on you, shame on you, on you with the new.rs. If nothing else, shame on you for your superior hypocrisy. So when someone attacks the board of Achif Efendi, then it's vandalism, then it's a scandal, then they're vandals, and when someone attacks General Ratko Mladic's mural, then he becomes a cleaner, he becomes a hero, he becomes an activist for human rights, he becomes a fighter for peace in the world, etc. Now you see who we're dealing with. So, we deal with people who always, absolutely always, stand on the anti-Serbian side, support every anti-Serbian stance and their policy, chairing, comes down to – the worse in Serbia, the better for them. However, I end up with this, in practice it turns out that the better Serbia, the worse it is for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10675	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. You were presented with records of the Fourth and Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. There is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. The Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs has not delivered any of the Members of Parliament in writing an objection to those minutes and therefore we move to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 26, 27, 28 October and 2 November 2021. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: total – 162 for – 151 did not vote – 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Fourth Session minutes. I am voting on the minutes of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 27 October 2021. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote: total – 163, for – 153, did not vote – 10 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the record of the Fifth Session. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, there is also a proposal on the agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate. Proposals for a supplement. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. Mr. Linta, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10676	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the fourth time, I suggest that the agenda of the session be complemented by my proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. The key proposal in my law is the fact that the current law does not recognise members of the army and police of Republika Srpska. The provisions of the laws of the Krajina fighter were recognised only until 27 April 1992. I ask that all members of the Republika Srpska Army and police be recognised as a wartime wartime service throughout the dual-term war. I have to say, a lot of Krajina fighters have contacted me, contacted me, called, asked for meetings. The Krajina fighters are bitter and dissatisfied because their fair and honorable fight against the Ustasha regime, Franjo Tudjman, whose strategic goal was to create an ethnically clean Croatian state, has not yet been recognised. The Krajina fighters did not wage any private war, they fought with honor, courage, and integrity for the preservation of Yugoslavia and fought to preserve their people from mass crimes and ethnic cleansing. Also, in my bill of law, I'm looking for a few more changes and additions. One of them concerns wartime military invalids. Namely, I suggest that my proposal for a law be made to all combatants who have been wounded or who have been ill during the war to allow them to apply for the status of a wartime wartime invalid within a year of the entry into force of this law. Krajina fighters suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, to be allowed by this law to apply for recognition of the status of a military disabled without a time limit. Also, we have a number of civilians from the Republika Srpska area who were wounded in the Crime Action "Storm". They gained civil disability status, received a personal disability from 2000 to 2013. The federal regulation was then abolished and we now have at least 12 civilian disabled wars from Republika Srpska that do not receive a personal disability. I think it's a big injustice and that changes and additions to the law need to be made, that these civilian disabled wars are also receiving a personal disability. This bill also requires changes in the categorization of fighters. Finally, I appeal once again for today's agenda to be complemented by my proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10677	Thank you, Mr. Linta. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 166, for – eight, did not vote – 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The next proposal, MP Miodrag Linta, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. Do you want the word again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10678	Thank you. For the seventh time, I suggest that the agenda of the session be complemented by my proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act. In 2012, Serbia began to realise so-called A regional housing programme aimed at resolving the key issue of integration, i.e. to address the housing issue of exiled persons from today's Croatia and the Federation of BiH. A total of about 17,000 families were then registered who had not resolved the housing issue and several more thousands who had not completed the survey then. So in 2012, it was at the beginning of the implementation of a regional housing programme, about 20,000 persecuted families, who were resident status or lived in unfinished houses or old spending houses, etc. The programme's goal was to address the key issue of integration by 2017 in the next five years. Unfortunately, the program was implemented and implemented very slowly. The Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, came out with data that by the end of 2022, just over 7,000 exiled families from Croatia, the Federation of BiH, will be resolved. Based on a statement, the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration remains 12,000 exiled families that will be pending housing. That is why I am asking this bill to continue the implementation of this programme by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to address the EU, or the European Commission, and to appeal that the donations provided for in 2012 continue to be used until this key issue of integration is resolved. In addition, we have a number of other problems in the integration process, I will list only a few of them. For example, we have cases of several municipalities, where the most drastic example is the slow implementation of this programme. Namely, the competent municipal commissions have published lists of persons who have received, for example, apartments, in 2015, this happened in Šapec, Šid and Bora and since 2015, here until today, it is six years, not yet completed buildings, in which these people should move in. People are bitter and wonder if it is possible for one building, from 10, 15, 20, 25 apartments, to be built for six years and that they pay rent instead of moving into those apartments in the next 2016. We also have an example of the town of Subotica, where a list has been published for two and a half years, a lot of people have called me, expected and hoped that these technical things will finally be resolved and that they can move into their apartments, not pay rent, for more than two and a half years, and the fact building is over. We have a part of the family, who moved into their apartments, 20 and more years ago, such as the "Sava" settlement in Obrenovac, 80 exiled families, here it is, they moved into their apartments in 1999, last 22 years, they still haven't received the right to buy those apartments. Another settlement in Obrenovac, where 23 families moved in in 2007. Then we have several categories of families that aren't allowed, yet, to buy their apartments. So, there are really many problems, I appeal to Prime Minister Brnabic, to receive our delegation for the meeting, I have already sent four letters and that the talks set time limits, to determine the institutions that, within a very short time period, will finally solve these many problems, in the process of integration, it is particularly a pity that this is a regional housing programme, and I want to say that because of the citizens of Serbia. So, these are not funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, these are the funds of international donors, the EU, a series of states, and I really repeat, it would be very bad for this programme to not be fully completed, and we have the EU's good intentions to help the process of resolving the key issue in Serbia, as regards exiled persons from Croatia, the Federation of BiH, and this is a housing issue. I appeal to the Assembly to supplement today's agenda with my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10679	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Final vote: 166, in total - five, no vote 161. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(1), Articles 170 and 192, paragraphs 3, and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to carry out, under one: a common principle, a single search on points two to 15 of the agenda; two: a joint single search on the 16th and 17th points of the agenda. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Finalising vote: 166, for -154, did not vote 12. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for supplementing the agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate, on the basis of Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: 165 in total, for -158, did not vote seven. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in 2021, in general. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2022, with the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance for 2022, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund of the Republic of health insurance for 2022, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Act of the Treaty on the Treaty of the European Union, the draft decision on the granting of consent to the Financial Fund for the Social Insurance Fund for the 2022 years and the Proposal for a Decision on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Treaty on the Law on the Law of the European Union, the draft law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Laws of Laws of the Republic of 2022, the Proposal for amendments to the Law on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws, the Law on the Laws of the Laws, the Law on the Laws, the Laws of the Laws, the Laws on the Laws of the Laws on the Laws of the Laws on the Laws of the Laws on the Laws on the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Laws, the Laws on the Laws on the Law on the Laws, the Laws, the Laws on the Laws on the Laws, the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws, the Laws on the Laws on the Laws on the Laws, the Laws on the Laws, the Laws on the Laws on the Laws, the Laws on the Laws, the Laws, the Laws, the Laws, the Laws, the Laws, the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws, the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws, the Laws, the Laws of the Laws, the Laws of the Laws We're going to work, according to the established agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the members of the National Assembly are invited to attend all members of the Government with their associates and that: Saša Stevanović, State Secretary; Zoran Radovanović, State Secretary; Branko Živanovic, State Secretary; Darko Komnenic, Assistant Minister; Mirjana Ćojbašić and Zoran Milosevic, Deputy Minister; Sanja Radojević Škodric, Director of the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund; Svetlana Tadin, Director of the Economic Affairs Sector in the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund; Dr Radan Kostic, Director of the Social Insurance Fund; Biljana Stanković, Director of the Economic Service of the National Employment; Zlatica Zec, Financial Director of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance and Milea Marjanović, Olivera Ružić Poparić and Dragana Nesic, senior advisersic at the Ministry. I welcome the members of the government. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(1) and Article 192(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle and uniform review on the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2022, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2022 Financial Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2022 Financial Fund for the Republic of Health Insurance, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2022 Financial Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance, and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2022. Do the proposing representatives want a word at the outset? First, the word has the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10680	Thank you. Good day to all, honourable Members of Parliament, I am here with the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to present the draft budget law for 2022. I will try to be as concise as possible, and ultimately we have more time to discuss the draft budget law, which is still the most important law for next year. So, I'm just going to go for a short summation of the 2021 results, summing up the results for 2020, because one common denominator for 2020 and 2021 was that both years were the years of fighting the pandemic of the coronary virus, that we all faced huge difficulties. When I say everyone, I mean not only the construction and the economy in the Republic of Serbia, I mean, also the whole of Europe and the whole world, while we faced a crisis that, unfortunately, took and took a toll on human lives, but also the crisis that has hit all the economies of the world since the Second World War, compared to which the global economic crisis of 2008 and 2009 looked like a small baby and within which we, ultimately and hugely supported you, respected MPs and this House have managed to single out significant funds through three economic packages, a measure of support and economy and citizens, and thanks to which we have these results. So through these three packages, we in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, in our economy, and in our citizens, gave financial assistance and support totalling over eight billion euros, believe it or not. By yesterday, a small, economically weak, financially powerless Serbia eventually managed to be stable as a result of the fiscal consolidation of 2014, 2015 and 2016, which the government led by then Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic managed to make sure that in these most difficult times we single out eight billion euros for our economy and for our citizens to overcome this terrible crisis. I'm talking about this introduction because eventually, and the budget for 2022, we're relying on everything we've done and we're doing a lot of this growth and development, if we get your support for the Budget Law, so it's important this introduction. So our economic downturn, GDP decline in 2020, was only 0.9%. It is one of the best economic results, economic results across Europe. In 2021, we recorded a dynamic recovery and economic growth that will go, certainly and certainly at this point we know more than 7%. And it's a huge success, and it's going to be one of the best results in Europe. If we get support from you for the 2022 budget, we predict when we implement all of those projects that we have projected with that budget that growth in 2022 will be 4.5%, with these indicators minus 0.9%, plus 7%, and we will see if it is 7.2%, 7.3% or even 7.5% and plus 4.5%, we will cumulatively in the most difficult years since World War II, in years of fighting the pandemic of the coronary virus have cumulative growth which is certainly the largest and best in Europe. This cumulative growth will be about 10% or over 10%. That's why it's an important budget for 2022, and that's why I'm here today to ask for your support in this budget. During 2020 and 2021, when all the countries in the world recorded the dramatic growth of unemployment, when some EU member states recorded unemployment and over 20%, we were through these three packages of support measures for citizens and businesses, and once again and again in this place grateful to President Aleksandr Vukic for this because if citizens remember, but to remind them why it is important to thank President Vukic again, he led, in the course of the 2020 pandemic, a practically crisis headquarters for the economy and with the whole team, designed the support measures that were so well targeted that we have these results today. So we made it possible not only to keep jobs, not to have a rise in unemployment, but over the last year we opened up new 60,000 jobs at a time when unemployment grew everywhere in our country, employment grew. These are huge things we should all be proud of. Fantastic results. When we were designing these measures to support the economy and citizens, within that crisis headquarters, there were two, one was medically, I led that medically, President Alexander Vukic led the economy, at that time the idea of leadership for all measures was, as I said yesterday at a meeting with the unions, to save jobs, to make sure that our people knew that tomorrow, that their families were safe, that they had a future and that the state could make sure that they had stability continuously, despite these challenges. We have found, in parallel, the strength again thanks to a stable policy which is the result of all those fiscal consolidation measures in 2014 and 2015, to continue to invest unreduced intensity in our infrastructure projects in capital infrastructure, in roads, in hospitals, in railways, in schools, in the sewerage network, environmental protection projects, waste water treatment plant, transfer stations, expansion and creation of new sanitary dumps, kindergartens, etc. We have not only improved the quality of life for our citizens, but we have also continuously and continuously created a new value for our citizens. It is big and important this 2021, for the Republic of Serbia. This is the first year in Serbia's history in which our GDP will cross 52 billion euros. That's big stuff. In 2012, GDP in the absolute amount of Serbia was 33.7 billion. Today, at the end of this year, we believe it will be over 52 billion. We think it'll be about 52 billion euros. This means that in less than ten years, we have created almost 20 billion euros in additional, or new values for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They're historic successes. This is where our country makes up for all the missed time, reduces the gap for those who have been far, far ahead of us, outruns some other countries in the region and increases the gap again compared to those who are now behind Serbia. Salaries and pensions continued to grow. These average earnings grew over 10% in real value. We expect that by the end of this year the average salary in the Republic of Serbia will be over 600 euros and that we are on a very good path, on the right path to reach the goal we promised Serbian citizens, which is that by 2025 the average salary in Serbia is 900 euros and the average pensions between 430 and 440 euros. So, when we measure today's passing time, we're on a great path. We are where we are and in these ambitious plans we planned to be. With this, we will not only confirm our leadership in the Western Balkans region, but we believe that by the end of this year, we will reach a Member State of the European Union by the average profit. What I think, not to hope, but I think it will mean that we as a country started competing in another category of far richer societies, much richer countries with a pretty strong economy and huge financial and budgetary support from the EU, which one Serbia cannot count on, but is actually fighting alone. Certainly, with the support of our partners, as well as our EU partners, but this is incomparable when you are an EU member how much money you receive or when you are not a member, so we have fought to compete in that category since 2022. In 2012, we fought with Northern Macedonia and Albania over who will have lower profits. We don't even think about it anymore. Since 2022, we have started to think about how to compete on average earnings with EU Member States and that is a fact and that is also an extremely big thing. As for foreign direct investment, Serbia continues to record a record inflow of foreign direct investment. In the first 10 months of this year, we attracted 3,140,000,000 euros in foreign direct investment, which is 63% more than in the same period in 2020, but we can't say it's because we fell a lot in 2020 because we didn't. Investors have not given up in Serbia's pandemic era. Investments continued to maltene with the same dynamics. Some have been slightly moved, but no one has given up investing in Serbia. And again, I will say because it is important to me, we saw in Serbia the most difficult year of 2020 investments and new investors from Germany and Japan, the two most prudent countries, the two countries with the most conservative investors, and that is, in fact, the best indicator of how stable Serbia is and how conservative and difficult they are to invest believe in Serbia's future. Know that only this fact has paved the way for many other investors who have then just paid attention to Serbia and said - if the Japanese and the Germans invest despite the pandemic in this country, then it is quite safe for us to invest too. After all, we see it in these numbers now for 2021. And, finally, despite giving eight billion euros to support the economy and citizens, despite the fact that we have allocated record-high amounts to support our health system and extremely high amounts so that we can fight this pandemic, and this fight against the pandemic is all just not cheap, because it needs to be bought every day and protective equipment and it needs to buy medicines. Serbia has never spared during the pandemic on drugs. We didn't ask if one drug per patient was $400 or 2,500. All the drugs that were best on the market we were able to get and we were able to buy them. We never asked if everyone should be tested for the slightest symptoms. We're testing over 26,000 people a day. You have to pay for all these tests, you have to pay for all those vaccines, etc., etc. Despite not reducing the capital investment budget, we continued to build roads and railways and hospitals and schools, we kept the level of public debt below 60% of GDP. Again, in the years when all other states have left public debt to grow to put that money into consumption, to invest in investment, to support the economy, to support the citizens, we have worked hard and managed not to go into huge public debt growth to leave stability for 2022, 2023, 2025 and, ultimately, for generations behind us. In late October, the public debt was 56.5% of our GDP. We expect that by the end of the year it will be 58.2% and you will see, I am now going to move to the 2022 budget proposal, that we have tried to make sure that in 2022 again, even though we have increased the allocations to capital investment, we are gradually reducing the deficit in the budget and reducing the additional level of public debt. At a time when no one would blame us, when I say no one, I mean the World Bank, the IMF, the EU or anyone else, that we are above 60% of the level of public debt, we see that we are gradually reducing it because it is a responsible policy, primarily responsible for the future. What's the budget target for 2022? Of course, as I said, the continuation of the rapid growth of the economy, the continuation of the construction of the largest infrastructure projects and, of course, the improvement of the standard of living of Serbia's citizens' living standards. These are the three basic objectives for the 2022 budget. The budget we are proposing is developmental and again, extremely important news for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to repeat today because these things are foreseen by the 2022 budget, for which we are seeking your support, which is, under one, the minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia increased from 1 January 2022 by 9.4%. The minimum profit goes to 35,000 dinars. It will export around 35,022,00 dinars and reach a 300-euro level and it is an incredible success. Is that enough for our citizens who receive the minimum wage? No, not at all. And, to be perfectly clear, none of us thinks that's enough, but when you start from the fact that your minimum was only 10 years ago 150 euros, creating an economy that can bring out a minimumer of 300 euros is an incredible success for all of us. Now a minimumer with these 35,022,00 dinars covers 87.8% of the minimum consumer baskets. If it hadn't been for the pandemic, I'm absolutely convinced that this year we'd have reached a minimum for the consumer basket. This has been moved because we've been saving jobs and because we've resuscitated so it's better for people to have a job and slowly raise the minimumer more slowly than it is for us to pick up faster and people to lose jobs. And let me remind you, this year we have 9.4% minimum wage growth, and our growth in economy is above 7%. So again, we've invested that the minimumer grows faster than the economy. Last year we had a downturn of 0.9%, but we grew a minimum of 6.6%. We were convinced that our economy would grow further and that it could withstand that growth, although some economic conservative logic would mean that if you have a decline in economy, you do not touch the minimumer and do not touch the wages. We invested money, after all, thanks to your support from the 2021 budget so that we balance our taxes on the economy, that the economy can give more money to the workers and we propose that with this budget. So, additionally slightly smaller taxes to take over the cost of this minimumer's work on itself, so that the economy is not too exposed because there are still times of crisis, but that the minimumer continues to grow. Since 1 January 2022, we propose an increase in wages between 7% and 8% in the public sector on average, if we exclude, therefore, without minimum wages, 7.4%. Pensions will be further increased by 5.5% from 1 January 2022. Just a reminder, we have another 20-euro pensioner in December. This will be paid to all pensioners on December 7th. In February, we have another one-time donation of 20,000 dinars. The pensioners were particularly threatened and affected by this pandemic. As a result, the state has parallelised and compared how it has worked to continuously increase pensions to help pensioners in these difficult times to feel safe and secure, so that they can afford more and know that the state can, as well as be a psychological effect, so that we, from the beginning of the pandemic, will end in February 2022, give each pensioner in Serbia about 500 euros on their pensions, through one-time grants, every full-time citizen in the Republic of Serbia who applied for help will be given about 200 euros, to our people at KIM 100 euros and unemployed 200 euros. After all, it went into consumption, and that is what eventually led to this rapid recovery and faster growth than expected. The most important, perhaps the most important aspect of this budget, in addition to the proposed growth in wages and pensions, is the capital investment budget. We're proposing a record budget for capital investment again, you know, and it's repeated year after year, I'm saying a record budget for capital investment because we're increasing it year after year. In 2022, the capital investment budget will be 485.8 billion dinars or 7.3% of our GDP. As far as capital investments are concerned, we will use these funds to complete and start building new highways and fast roads, railways, clinical centres, general hospitals, health homes, specialist clinics, schools, additional institutes and scientific and technological parks to further gain this competitiveness of our economy. I will now tell you about some of the most important projects of road and rail infrastructure. Capital projects in the 2022 budget include building subways in Belgrade, for example. After 50 years of promise, the stories of the subway, our dreams of the subway, finally started yesterday. It's an incredibly big thing for both Belgrade and Serbia. We continue the projects that have already started, and this is primarily the fast traffic station of Novi Sad-Ruma, i.e. the Frushkogorski corridor, the construction of the Moravski Corridor, with the completion of the first section by the end of 2022, so we will have the highway Pojate-Kruševac, arriving on the highway to Kruševec, imagine now how different this is and how the quality of life of people in Kruševec is changing, but then in Trstenik, Vrnjak Banja, Kraljev. We continue construction of the Belgrade-Sarajevo highway, from Sremska Raca-Kuzmin, the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica bus station, the construction of the highway in the Nis-Pločnik semi-profile, we start in a few days, so it will be started by the end of 2021, so I say we continue. We continue to build a bypass around Gornji Milanovac, where we begin to build a bypass around Loznica, Užica, a tunnel near Kadinjaca, a bypass around Požega. I'm saying, we're going to continue Gornji Milanovac, because we're going to start that by the end of this year. We're finishing the Belgrade-Novi Sad railroad. Yesterday we started the New Sad-Sabotica border with Hungary. We finish the highway in 2022 to Požega. We're finishing up a fast traffic to Valjev, also by the end of 2022. It's a fast-track Iverak-Lykovac. We end by the end of the year and a section of the highway "Milos Veliki" from New Belgrade to Surcin. We're finishing the reconstruction of the New Pazar-Tutin State Road. We are finishing the reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica-Segedin railway line. We are also starting with the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line, the construction of a northern bypass around Kragujevac, a fast traffic station, particularly important for Vojvodina, Bački Breg-Kikinda, the Belgrade-Zrenjanin highway. That's all the stuff we start. So, we continue what started, we finish important projects in 2022, including a fast traffic to Valjev and highway to Požega, and we end New Belgrade-Surcin, and we start new ones. Amazing big things that I think we should all be proud of again. We are starting to reconstruct and build on the Horgos border crossing, as well as build several border crossings, again to expand capacity for our economy, for exports from the Republic of Serbia. That's where we now have a narrow throat. Construction of a new bridge across the Sava in Belgrade, a national football stadium with accompanying facilities, etc. When we're talking about wages, I said we're planning a continuous profit relief, just like we did years before this one. We negotiated with the economy, within the National Social and Economic Council, to propose an increase in the non-taxable share of gross earnings from 18,300 dinars to 19,300 dinars from January 1, 2022, precisely to mitigate the small cost of them from increasing the minimum earnings of 9.4% and reducing the contribution rate for PIO, therefore, for pension and disability insurance on the employer's burden by 0.5%. This further reduces the tax burden of the average net profit by about one percentage point. I'll tell you now only about investment in other areas, I'll try not to go into detail again. Health care, which is one of the most important priorities, as promised in the exposé. The total estimated allocations for healthcare in 2022 amount to 442 billion dinars. It's 0.15% higher than this second rebalancing in October 2021. If you look at it, it's compared to 2019, so, a period before the Covid pandemic, even by 153 billion dinars, 153 billion compared to the pre-pandemic period. I only mention some projects, so that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following us today, because you will see from the budget itself, and yet I will not be able to mention everything, that there really is no part of Serbia that we have forgotten or neglected. There is a continuation of the projects launched, such as the equipment of the new Dedenje 2 hospital, one of the most modern cardiovascular hospitals in Europe, now this new, "Dedenje 2" that we are soon opening, the continuation of KC Vojvodina. I hope that by the year 2022 we have a tender for the start of construction, reconstruction and construction of KC Kragujevac, so let's get on with it. I don't think we're gonna make it to 2022, but it's been 2023 for sure. If we can make 202 years, that's better. We're continuing our work on hospitals in Arangelovac, Vranj, Kickindi. We end up “Infectious and Tropic Diseases” in Belgrade, at the health homes of Gajin Han, Vranjačka Banja, Gerantological Centres in Novi Sad, Subotica, Valjevo, children's homes and youth distracted in development in Veternik and Subotica. Also, the complete reconstruction of the interior of the General Hospital in Leskovec, the complete reconstruction of the interior of the General Hospital in Prokuplje, the House of Health and the construction of the new operational block in Prokuplje, the Home of Health in Krgnaca, two home health in Grockoj, Čukarica, Lapovo, Loznica, Medveđi, Rači, Sombor, works on "Dom for the Accommodation of Adults" Kulina, "The Centre for the Protection of Children, Children and Youth" in Zvečnica, further equipment of KBC "Dragisa Misović", further equipment of the hospital in Arangelovac and Loznica. Complete reconstruction of the facilities of the Children's Polyclinic in Zajecar, works at the Institute of Public Health in Pancheva, etc. As for environmental protection, the increasing presence of the topic, we are planning a total of 27.4 billion dinars with the draft budget. Some of this is within the environment ministry's budget, some of which is within the construction and infrastructure ministry's budget. You remember when we said in 2020 that we had a record budget to set aside the environment. This is a budget that is 3.3 times larger than what we had planned for 2021. We plan to build dumps in 28 local self-governments, sanitary dumps, wastewater treatment plants in 65 local self-governments at 73 locations, as many as 169 purifiers and construction of a sewage network of about 5,000 kilometers. During this year, we signed contracts for the construction of a sewage network and the construction of a wastewater treatment plant in 16 local self-government. It's done, it's going into construction in 2022. It is Lazarjevac, Velika Crnjini, Obrenovac, Svrljig, Lajkovac, Krupanj, Kladovo, Mininica, Banja Vrujici, Barvarin, Vranje, Kučevo, Novi Sad, Kragujeva, Novi Becej, Knic. The total value of works in these 16 local self-government is 336m euros. We plan to build eight regional recycling centres that will cover more than 50 cities and municipalities, and the Ministry of Environment Protection has planned 100 million dinars to support shaming. These are co-financing funds. Additional funds are planned by local self-government. To resuscitate and close non-sanitary dumps 350m, as it is necessary to clean up 3,500 dumps and wild dumps in Serbia. What we're starting to do is we need to move on. To support local self-governments who are unable to finance waste management systems on their own 400 million. As far as education and education are concerned, just for a little while. An amount of nearly 253 billion dinars has been determined, an increase of 12 billion dinars compared to the 2nd rebalance of October this year, or 17.1 billion, respectively, compared to the initial budget of 2021. So here we pump more money into education, education and science. In 2022, we need to complete the digitization of our schools. We started it in 2018. By the end of 2022, we should have finished it. We have 750 million dinars for free textbooks for socially endangered students, 750 million dinars for digital textbooks, 200 million dinars for preschool infrastructure, so extra kindergartens. We have so far been through this project that we are working with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, worth 47m euros, we have increased capacity in our preschool institutions by more than 3,800 seats. We should continue to work on the reconstruction and upgrade of kindergartens, such as the reconstruction and construction of kindergartens in Doljevac, Žitorajji, Sremska Mitrovica, and we have completed our work in Kruševec, Loznica, Merošina, Prokuplje, Vladic's Han, Smederev, Šida, Tutin, Novi Pazar. That's all, therefore, planned with this budget. We've secured a record 26 billion dinars for science. We have 18 billion dinars to fund scientific institutes, we have almost 2.7 billion to co-opt into Horizon Europe, which is to better connect with Europe, namely our scientists and researchers. With this money, too, we are practically opening the door for much greater EU funds for our science. We are increasing the budget of the Innovation Action Fund again, and in 2022, which is particularly important for our start-up companies, we are launching a new programme called the Fund of Funds, where we will practically give a direct boost to private investment funds in the Republic of Serbia, which will then be funded by our start-ap innovative enterprises. This is also foreseen by this start-up strategy, which has now completed the public debate process, so I expect that in the coming years, this further strengthening and sustainability of our economic development will lead to the return of some young people from abroad to the Republic of Serbia because it will make it easier to finance its ideas in the Republic of Serbia, additional funding, financial resources through investment funds in the Republic of Serbia and the competitiveness of our economy. It is important to me here that we have planned additional funding for some new technology park development projects, such as the Regional Centre in Kruševec, where we have budgeted the design, an extremely important project for the further development of biofour campuses, for Serbia to become the centre of this part of Europe for what it is and certainly will be the future, which is biotechnology, bioinformatics, biomedicines, biodiversity, and by the end of this year we will open a genome sequencing centre. In culture, we have increased the budget by 16% and it is now 14.8 billion dinars. I want to point out in particular, I think, an important project in culture for the decentralisation of culture "National Capital of Culture". Mayo, a phenomenal project and the fact that Cacak has been chosen as the first national capital of culture for 2023, and here in Čačka we should finance some cultural projects that will, in general, raise the resources and capacity of the institutions at the place and congratulate me on it. For the first time, significant funds of 367 million dinars that will be, that is, we propose to be invested in the municipality of Lebana in restoration and a better presentation of the archaeological site of Caric's city, which is indeed one of our archaeological pearls which is not used enough for the whole promotion of that part of Serbia. Agriculture, and I'm about to finish there to finally leave something behind for the debate, it's important to point out that total allocations for agriculture amounting to 62 billion dinars are foreseen. It's an increase of 10 billion compared to the 2021 budget. The largest increase in direct payments incentives for farmers, therefore, for milk premiums, for basic incentives, for plant production, for livestock incentives, etc. That's what we're increasing further. The amount planned and proposed for 2022 is 32.2 billion dinars. In 2021, that amount was 27.2 billion dinars. So, a significant increase. After all, if we think about the future, we think about biotechnology, biomedicine, we think about energy, but what we have today as an energy crisis is going to be how much of a food crisis tomorrow. We therefore further strengthen our agriculture and our farmers. We're planning again for the future, for some five, six, ten years, to create today conditions for us to be leaders again. We also increased or suggested to you that we increase investment in rural development measures, planting plantations, supply of equipment, tractors, organic production. Last year we singled out three billion dinars for it. We're planning five billion dinars this year. The budget also includes a billion dinars to continue work on the construction of the dam with the accumulation of Ariel, i.e. Svrtkovo, an additional 300 million dinars for modernising radar centres, an additional 430 million dinars for building a irrigation system from that Abu Dhabi Development Fund, etc. etc. Only in a few terms regarding tax revenues and expenditures. We predicted total budget revenues and revenues of a billion 517 million dinars, which is an increase in total tax revenues of 1.9%. In this structure, total tax revenues are 86.9%, non-tax revenues are 11.6% and the rest are donations of approximately 1.5%. When we look at each other, you saw in the tax revenue budget all categories have moderate growth, so we plan to grow in all categories, except for the corporate income tax. We planned it here conservatively, where we had a fall. We planned a fall from 2021, but above all because we had a record growth in 2021, so compared to that, in this 2022 year we were a small decline, but also because we're going to continue to face, unfortunately, with the pandemic. With the budget, or the draft budget, we planned total expenditures compared to a billion 717 million dinars, down from 4.23% compared to the amount planned for the 2021 budget, and ultimately we are doing it to reduce the deficit now gradually. Very important, we are designing the general government deficit in 2022 of 3% of GDP, the planned deficit this year is 4.9%. So from 4.9% of the deficit, we're reducing to 3% of the deficit and public debt to approximately - we're dropping public debt to 53.8%. So, both public debt and deficit, we're slowly reducing. Our plan is a medium-term fiscal framework within the framework of reducing the general government deficit to 1% by 2024. I'm glad to notice that this year's fiscal council has also given me a better assessment of the budget's proposals. I'll just draw a few things. The fiscal council says that the proposed budget is planned with caution and that fiscal movements in 2022 can be better than expected, that the 3% deficit, planned by the budget, is a step in the good direction, that pensions and wages in the public sector, although they increase, remain under control, and we were really conservative there. That's what President Vukic talked about when he talked about that we could have increased both salaries and pensions a little bit more, but we were conservative, so we watched how to keep security, security, stability and how to reduce deficits and public debt in any case. Imagine what someone else would do since 2022 is an election year. So we didn't take a political increase in wages and pensions. On the contrary. Even the Fiscal Council says – and what has been done in terms of salary increases and pensions is conservative and fully keeping the budget stable. They certainly say that the state's allocations for the construction of infrastructure in 2022 were maintained on a good high scale and that in 2022 it continues with what the Fiscal Council says is a good practice of gradual fiscal redundancies. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the shorter I could propose a budget for 2022. You see, I haven't covered a lot of things, that I haven't gone through sectors individually, or telecommunications, or tourism, or sports infrastructure, or extremely important energy, but still in energy we expect a lot from our public enterprises and their self-investment and their seriousness, and their justice, and their state administration, etc. We can do it through the debate. I wanted to highlight the most important things for our citizens. To finally end with this, this budget, if the government gets support from you that this path will undoubtedly further improve the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, increase the wealth of all of us and our countries by additional infrastructure and additional schools and hospitals and influence us to be economically stronger and more stable. Thank you very much and I ask for your support for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10681	I thank the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic. Do any of the promoters want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? The president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Brnabic, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, a very important session today at which we will discuss the draft budget. Certainly this proposal was the subject of a debate on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law when we assessed that it was in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so that we could talk about it in plenary. Recently in the Assembly, we discussed budget rebalancing, and I will relate to your exposure. I also spoke about budget rebalancing, specifically I singled out the Ministry of Justice, and in that sense I talked about budget rebalancing. Today, I would continue in this spirit first of all because the reform of the judiciary is now focused and certainly under the watchful eye of the public, but also because of the fact that we are soon to be expected constitutional changes in the area of justice. In addition, we must not forget that one of the basic measures defined in the National Strategy for Justice Reform – strengthening judicial infrastructure in order to improve the efficiency of the judiciary. In the past year, the ministry of justice has invested a year and a half of great effort in building new judicial buildings, as well as renovation, reconstruction and adaptation of existing buildings. This should certainly be mentioned, the Court of Justice in Kragujevac, the reconstruction of the former barracks "Philip Kljajic" in Nis, for the accommodation of the Privred and Violent Court, the building of the Administrative Court in Belgrade, the construction of the building of the judicial bodies in Kruševec, the construction of an annex building, the special department of the Higher Court in Belgrade, the Stajska Street, of course for the needs of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, the reconstruction of the building of the Third Basic Court in Belgrade, the reconstruction of the building of judicial authorities in Sombor, etc. What I want to say further is that there is certainly the Department of Criminal Penalty, which is responsible for the execution of a prison sentence, a juvenile prison, the measure also exists within the system. So, 16 county prisons, 11 correctional institutions, a foster home and a special prison hospital, you'll agree that, perhaps, MPs, but certainly Serbian citizens don't know much about it and that's what needs to be talked about. Last month, as members of the Commission for the Control of Criminal Sanctions of the National Assembly, we were on a tour of the Central Prison in Belgrade and we were convinced that the work of the Institution was established, indeed by the rules of advanced European prison systems, that it was working there on professional training and training of employees. I would especially like to highlight the work with convicted persons, so work on the resociation of convicted persons and the fact that up to 10% of convicted persons each year acquires some form of diploma and increases the number of persons employed, among convicted persons. Like I said, a few citizens know this is in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. In any case, I will leave the details to the resolution committees, the resolution committees of the National Assembly, which will discuss more in detail each ministry. I want to commend the work of the Ministry of Justice, but I also want to commend the work of the Ministry of Finance and all other ministries. You've shown that you're one team that works together and, of course, headed by Alexander Vukic, leads this country forward. In the end, I will only take the opportunity to invite colleagues and colleagues to support the 2022 budget, because we want to live in an advanced, orderly country, in a country that will give its citizens a better life, just as it has tried in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10683	Thank you. The chairman of the Finance Committee, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10684	I must first say that the budget for this year has come towards the calendar, within a time period, which means that there has been enough time for all MPs to get acquainted with the draft budget for next year. We, according to some of our obligations, which we gave as the National Assembly and the Committee, together with the Ministry of Finance, for the first time organised public hearing, before the discussion itself and before the Committee itself, which was on 9 November, which refers to the presentation of the budget for 2022 and the examination of the final account, with the opinion of the DRI for 2022, which is of course under the Constitution and the Budgetary System Act. So we respected all the steps in adopting this most important act. What should be said, that yesterday, on the Finance Committee, we had the opportunity to hear that presentation, by the finance minister, but also the aspects of everyone given by the governor of the NBS, then the Fiscal Council gave its assessment, of course, its opinion on it. We had the opportunity to hear what the Council for Coordination and Monitoring of GDP growth of the Government of the Republic of Serbia said and, of course, the DRI. We had really full information and came prepared today for the session, but what I have to say is that many committees have been considering this proposal. First of all, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the Committee on Economic Affairs, Trade, Tourism and Energy, Diaspora, Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, the Committee on Education, as well as the Committee on Culture and Information. Why am I saying this? Because the representatives of the board, or not just the presidents of these committees, had the opportunity to tell our colleagues how pleased they are with it, with that plan for next year, because it has proved that some sectors have done a lot of things in this year, plus they get a chance to end certain investment projects for next year. I have to say that the environmental protection budget has increased almost by 86%, as well as the culture budget of 16.5%. It will be bigger in the next year than in this year, and don't forget that the rebalancing system has greatly increased these sectors and that the sector relating to agriculture is planned at 50 billion dinars next year, which is almost 20 billion more and 270 times larger than it was in 2012. So today we are talking very important things about Serbia next year, what the prime minister said, should go and continue its investment cycle in all areas and record a plan bigger than it is in this year. This means that regardless of what we have now had in this year, the growth of 4.5% planned for next year will be ranked with developed economies of Central and Eastern Europe. So now we're comparing ourselves to those states. We are not comparing ourselves with the countries of the Western Balkans, nor with developing countries, but side by side with those that have been developed. What was interesting yesterday on the Finance Committee, and that's what the finance minister will say, the evaluation given by the Fiscal Council and we heard from the prime minister, he really praised in his text work. For the first time, he gave one opinion saying that the budget was very cleverly planned and that it was done with great caution, taking into account all the risks that are expected not only of us, but of the EU countries and the whole world. What turned out to be good is that when we discuss the evaluation of the Fiscal Council, for some things we really do not agree conceptually with them. We have the impression that those behind their numbers and letters are really looking at it from an older aspect, a full budget analysis when it comes to next year's proposal. Why? Because they repeat some things from five years ago in the same way, not knowing what is being done and how the Serbian government overcomes all new challenges and what it sees as a challenge is an advantage. First, it's an education. The prime minister said how much money is allocated for next year more than in this year and in the previous year for education. We had a chance to hear from the President of the Fiscal Council that, say, it would be much less isolated, and in his report, the technical narrative signed says that there would be much more for nearly 12 billion. The second part of the story, about "Er Serbia" as not to see how much investments are made and of course, "Srbigas" which, somewhere when it is known, will definitely increase the price, not only gas, but electricity, and we don't know how much it will be, because tomorrow there will be negotiations between Alexander Vukic and Vladimir Putin, so you can't put this political issue into the budget as certain figures and you can't define it. So the concept of the Fiscal Council is that we try to put forward figures that we know are going to have to come out of the budget in part to ensure not only economic stability, but also energy stability and the security of the entire economy in general. So, this concept of understanding of the Fiscal Council based on what is written and what has simply been changing and progressing here for years and shows that there are results in 2020 and 2021, when we have given support to citizens almost eight billion dinars and this growth that recognises both the most developed countries, ultimately both the IMF and the World Bank, in fact, shows that we are very good at responding to all the challenges and problems that arise in the world economy and clearly not recognised by the Fiscal Council as something that Serbia is fighting in an adequate way. We have come to terms with this fact, but what we have received in response to both Serbia's funding and funding when it comes to many investments for "Srbiagas" is in fact that the way we operate in collaboration with the European Commission is completely unrecognizable and unknown to those who criticise us. I think we got it last night as a decident answer, both by the finance minister and by the governor of the National Bank, Jorgovanka Tabakovic. That's why I think he was very interesting yesterday, that MPs can get a stenogram and that simply many of the dilemmas they have and as answers to those who criticize us, they will be able to respond at any moment. I therefore believe that even colleagues who have maintained their committees and supported this budget for next year must have reason to speak today in this debate and I think they will be happy to support this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10685	Thank you. Before we proceed with further work, one notice of today's work. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Samir Tandir came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10686	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable President, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and the Honorable Minister, I think that even the greatest optimist two years ago when we faced the pandemic due to the crown of the virus, did not expect us to discuss this draft of the budget both last and this year. Having all the challenges that we have faced, not just us, but all of humanity, then I can say unequivocally that what we have today as a draft budget is the power of leadership in this country. So, given that primarily the health system, but also the economy of strong EU countries, has not come across the root of the virus, that the health systems have been fired, that the economies have failed and that we still have this period of recovery and that we have some countries and in the EU that are completely locked down. Like it or not, who is the president of this country and who is at the head of this country's government must be recognized primarily by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, at a brave leadership in this time of crisis, because you know when the sea is upset and when the slippery road or August, only brave leaders, drivers, captains have the courage to stand behind the helm. When the sea is quieter or less, anyone who technically knows how to fly a ship can steer. However, when the sea is excited, when we have challenges that humanity does not remember, like now facing humanity and our country, only the best can stand at the head of the ship, or at the head of the country. I think that regardless of the political differences, regardless of whether someone is a government or an opposition, you must be fair, correct and congratulate both the President of the State and the Prime Minister and the Government and the institutions on one of these draft budgets. I read in detail what the government and the budget said and regular critics and representatives of the Fiscal Council, and more or less everyone really agrees in the assessment that this is a good draft budget. This budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2022 and each budget of one state or institution is in fact as well as the household budget. You are realistically looking at what incomes you have, which are expenses, what your householders expect, i.e. the ministries, institutions, citizens next year and realistically set things up whether you can get into some investment cycle, whether it's about your household, whether you want to change the roof, paint or maybe buy a bigger and better apartment. That's right and when it comes to the state, and this budget is primarily domestic to me, it's developmental, it's socially responsible and it's investment. I think that these are some components that contain a good budget and that citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia, whether they live in Belgrade, whether they live in the interior, whether they live on the periphery of our country, whether they are employed in the private or public sector, they can feel one security and that is the key word and key state that we and the Republic of Serbia, but all citizens and citizens on the planet need right now. Security is what is necessary both for investors and for the economy, but also for all citizens and employees. Growth in the economy of 7% this year is something that is constant and should certainly be welcomed. The predicted growth of 4.5% is something that is a really good projection, and I believe from the experience of this and the previous year that it will be exceeded. 60,000 new jobs and eight billion euros have been opened to help our economy. What is a key task when the pandemic began and was set up by the president, the government and all political leaders is to preserve the lives of citizens and citizens, but also to preserve the economy. I think that through the packages of this aid, which we MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia voted, adopted and later implemented through the government, it is proof that we have preserved our economy. Especially what I want to point out is a 5.5% pension increase. This is the most vulnerable group of our citizens, these are our parents, these are people who have invested their youth, their best years, in this country, who have earned their pension with honor and honesty. I am very happy that today's budget provides for an increase in pensions. What makes me particularly happy is this one-time aid of 20,000 dinars, which will be paid in January or February of next year. Maybe someone who swims in millions, who really has the huge financial resources of 20,000 dinars doesn't represent a figure, but all of us citizens who live a simple life know what every citizen, especially a pensioner means to 20,000 dinars for basic living supplies, to pay the bills, to pay the heat, but maybe to make a budget so that that pensioner can buy his grandkids a gift. I really want to welcome this decision. As for the increase in public sector wages of 7%, I would also like to say hello in particular. It is also the courage of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the proposings of this budget. Very often, he runs away from this topic really needlessly, and he flees into one pulsism and avoids being called the right name. People in the public sector are really doing a responsible job for this country. I expect that the next budgets will also provide for an increase in salaries for these people in the coming years. Why? For this reason, in order to prepare materials for this session, to implement this budget, these people have to work. Except that in life we face a harsh fact that the best students, the best engineers, the best managers want because of better working conditions, because of the higher salary to leave this country, in this country we have a challenge for people who work in the public sector, and good managers, good engineers, good lawyers get a call from the private sector. You know, when you put the salary you can get there in the state sector, there's just going to be an outflow of qualitative labour, and that's something we can't allow. It is very important that people working in the public sector, and good directors, are good lawyers, economists and managers, have adequate compensation for their work and that they see their future in the state administration and local self-government. I'd like to point out, since I'm from Prepolje, from a Sanjay municipality, a single banal example. Very difficult municipalities in the interior or on the periphery of this country can find a municipal defender. Why? When you have a law school, you've passed a judicial exam, you're much better off being a lawyer, you're much better off running for judge and prosecutor, not being a municipal attorney, defending millions of dinars or euros worth of property, and your salary being the way it is. That is why it is very important for me to fully welcome the increase in wages in the public sector, but to continue in the coming years. What I want to point out is that it is an honor to be president, prime minister, MP, president of the municipality. It is such a great honor to serve your people, your citizens, that I am sure that more or less each of us would work without any compensation for that job. I am grateful to God that I have such a situation that I can talk here about these problems. However, what I ask the Prime Minister, the finance minister, is to pay attention to these "ordinary workers" in the state administration and local self-government, which is something I would call the question of the daily. So the president of the municipality, the council member, the directors, they absolutely don't interest me. We chose to serve the citizens, and we should be happy about it. However, one driver or investment department official all day, it takes him four or five hours to get out of Prijepolje or from Pazar or from Tutina to Belgrade, fighting in one of the ministries to get millions of euros into the city and he has a daily that cannot cover his basic needs. I think it's an item that's very important and that in the budget, there should be room for these people to meet in the next period. As for the increase in salaries in the military, health and social services, it is absolutely the parliamentary group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants' Party that supports it. I think we're all agreed that the health centers, the doctors, the doctors, the medical staff, are our heroes, and that they're truly heroic on their shoulders. As far as the budget is concerned, as far as the Sanjak municipalities are concerned, I want to express my satisfaction that in this year we will finally complete the reconstruction of the Master's Road of Novi Pazar-Tutin, a very important traffic station which, apart from the communication between the two cities, will help with the economic development and the New Pazar and Tutin, but all of that part of our country. What this budget also predicts, and I expect faster dynamics is a continuation of the replacement of high voltage and low voltage grids, because we have a big problem, and when it comes to households and agricultural land and, I don't know, a refrigerator, because it's the agricultural end, but also when it comes to economics, because very often it happens, especially in winter months, that we have a total power shortage and then the companies stop, that what's in the freezers is absolutely going down. What is very important, and I have information that by September 1st 2022, a pipeline will be released, the Prime Minister can answer that, to Tutina and Novi Pazar, it's one big historical thing. He talked about all these projects very much, he fought hard, and I want to put in a special accent the rickety president of our party, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, and it is a commitment more to our party, but also to all our coalition partners, to all the projects he has been working on with the president of the Republic of Serbia for as short a period of time as possible and to realize. What is also very important is the continuation of further investment when it comes to the General Hospital in Novi Pazar, which must grow into a clinical hospital centre in Novi Pazar, because a large number of people are gravitating there and it is really necessary for that part of our country to get a functional clinical hospital centre. What I want, under the circumstances, to be less investment, and of fundamental importance, to point out is the reconstruction of the primary school in Sjenica, where the Public Investment Office has defined eight million euros, it is indeed one school for the 22nd century, it is a very good message that the Government of the Republic of Serbia sends to citizens and citizens not only in Sjenica, but also according to the entire and Bosniak and Serb people who live in that area. I would also like to commend the detachment of local roads in hundreds of millions of dinars, when it comes to local self-government in Prijepolje, the road to the Winter Centre "The Stone Mountain", in Sjenica, Priboj, Novi Pazar and Novi Varoša. What I expect, and we were talking here about raising the budget, when it comes to the Ministry of Ecology, to thank Minister Vujovic for everything she has done for the municipality of Prepolje. We've solved a big problem, but not just in Prepolje, but really, environmentalism has become a top issue, because citizens and citizens feel they're working, they feel one responsibility, they feel one new energy. What I'd like to ask is that special attention be paid to the non-sanitary dump of Govedjak near Sjenica and to see that it is indeed in this plan of the regional dump Banjica that we start to solve. As for a brief review of the ministries, it is also an honor when it comes to health and education and agriculture and infrastructure. However, I was particularly pleased with the initiative of the president of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to helping families. I think that the ministries, such as the Ministry of Demography and such as the Ministry of Agriculture, for municipalities such as the municipalities from which I come, the Prijepolje, or the Sanjak municipalities and other marginal municipalities of our country are very important ministries, I think that the issue of demographics is essential not only for this government, but it is essential for our country. We seriously have to deal with this issue, because I really have to say – every honor and highway and pipeline, but we have to make an extra effort to keep young people living in these municipalities, otherwise I don't think things are going well. In the day to vote on the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, will vote in favour of the draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10687	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the United Valley National MP Selma Kucevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10688	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today on the agenda a very important draft budget bill for 2022. This bill contains, in certain parts, really interesting and advanced measures. However, the sustainability of these measures in continuity is questionable. When we talk about interesting and advanced measures, I primarily think about improving the material position of citizens in terms of salary increases, pensions, significant investment in capital investments. Since this proposal should have been developed and as such absolutely acceptable to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I, as a citizen of one of the most underdeveloped municipalities and municipalities that fall even in the order of devastated municipalities, unfortunately cannot say so. If the state of Serbia is to be a modern European country, i.e. a country that accepts and shares European standards, then I believe that the principle of decentralisation and regionalism must indeed be the guiding principle of leadership and official state policy and its relationship to certain areas in our country. I have pointed out several times that the Tutin municipality is one of the youngest municipalities in this country according to the average age of the population. These days, we have had the opportunity to hear a lot of things that the state will provide new incentive measures for population policy, while on the other hand I am concerned by the state's tolerance to mass migration, therefore, neglect, as well as the country's carelessness towards areas and municipalities where they live and where there are the most young people. In this regard, the Tutin municipality has run for several projects that are of crucial importance for all its citizens who, unfortunately, have not found themselves in this bill. One of these projects certainly is the completion of the works of the sports hall. For example, the Tutin municipality does not have a city sports hall, as well as a school in two primary schools in the city area. The facility began building in 2005 in the yard of elementary schools, where the course was attended by more than 2,100 founders. The project was approved by the Public Investment Management Office, and a public procurement procedure has been suspended due to withdrawal of financial resources following the pandemic. Then, a project to rehabilitate high school facilities, high school and technical schools. The project was approved by the Public Investment Management Office and attended over 1,100 founders at both schools. The project envisions the restoration of the school building façade, as well as the reconstruction and reconstruction of the workshop building used by the Technical School, as well as the arrangement of the entire school complex, so that it would be suitable for use. We have also applied with many other projects, such as the construction of a closed swimming pool as part of the school complex "Tusho" and the outdoor editing of the complex. Tutin municipality doesn't have a school or a public city pool. The importance of these projects, especially sports halls, as well as closed city swimming pools, is indeed too high to talk, especially when we consider that in the winter period 2,100 founders of their respective and school activities are mostly held on open school grounds. Another one of the projects is reconstruction and upgrade of the home of health. The home of health with a dispensary was built in 1980 and requires extensive reconstruction, recovery, reconstruction and replacement of up-to-date elements. Furthermore, building a school on Mali Ravna, where, due to the growth of the population and the expansion of the city, we have a great need to build our school facilities. For all these projects, the Tutin municipality has allocated very significant funds for the production of project-technical documentation, which have been hitched due to the pandemic. So I'm interested, as are all the citizens of this community, when will we at least be able to expect the realization of the same? In this bill, we also have a great commitment to the security sector, whose importance is certainly not slow, but I think it may have been more important to give more attention to both hospitals and schools. What I must mention certainly is the potential and importance of Lake Shadow and rural tourism in this municipality, which are not even quite exploited and I believe that their development requires much more investment. The project of importance for the development of the Sjenica is certainly supporting the regional centre for the development of agriculture and village, as well as land concessions for the construction of an industrial zone or free zone, areas for improved business, with an emphasis certainly on the development of agriculture. Further, infrastructure equipment of the Žari ski centre, with a national biathlon centre, then lighting the complex, building ski-lifts and accompanying infrastructures. Also, the development and equipment of locations on Uvc, the cave high. It is also a very disappointing fact that the Ministry of Sports and Youth has never shown interest in projects in the Municipality of Sjenica, a municipality that belongs to the country's youngest, in which the only national biathlon centre in the region operates solely by relying on its own resources. Meanwhile, the state supports building buildings on Zlatibor, and Serbia's team is in winter sports composed of athletes from Sjenica. The development projects that should certainly have been supported by the state is a regional centre for the development of agriculture and the village, which is existentially at risk because the state is not implementing its regulation on mandatory control of the quality of milk, allegedly waiting for the establishment of a system of reference laboratories. While the shadow laboratory has accredited as much as 37 methods of checking the quality of milk and meat, as well as milk and meat products, the state has established only seven. If, after a decade of delays, the state still implements its regulations, the regional centre would survive as a regional institution dedicated to this further development of agriculture, which would certainly stop this negative trend of migration from this municipality, and would provide more adequate conditions for staying and decent living in the territory of this municipality. What I also want to point out is that you are all well-known for a project to improve living conditions for citizens of border areas with BiH in the Municipality of Priboj. You know what was happening there and how many Bosniaks were actually victims of this destructive state regime policy in the last decade. The programme of return of Bosniaks and their sustainable life in the Municipality of Priboj was interrupted in 2014 and since then none of what the state mapped as a priority has been realised. I want to know why this project was interrupted, who is in the interest of it, and what is the message that is actually sent to these gesture citizens? The problem of outdated school facilities is certainly the problem of all municipalities in Sandzak, and thus in Prepolje. Very bad conditions in the Prepolje health center should certainly be a priority in this bill, as well as solving oxygen divorce problems in this health center. Then, solving the problem of the rural plumbing in this municipality, as well as deforestation of surface water and sewerage networks. Therefore, the funds provided for the regular operation of the coordination body service, which includes transfers at other levels of government, which include funds to monitor capital investments in the municipalities of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, have not increased for years, leading to a situation that these municipalities do not have adequate financial capacity to realise the capital investments needed to improve the living conditions of citizens living there, and we have tried to correct this by amendment. In line with all of the above, I believe it may have been necessary for the state budget to particularly position areas and regions in which underdeveloped municipalities are located and to try to balance this economically unbalanced position and status through certain affirmative measures that do not correspond to our alleged commitment to equality and protection of the interests of all citizens of this country. This applies primarily to Sandzak and the Preshove Valley. Incidentally or not, in these areas there are certainly non-majority people, or minorities represented by our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10689	Thank you. The word has a finance minister, Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10690	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Kučević, honourable Members of the people, the topic you have now begun is extremely important to us. I'll draw your attention to a few projects, a few figures, a few figures that show how important it is for us and the Bujanovac and Presevo and Medvedja and Tutin and Sjenica municipalities, and what I'd like to ask you is that these municipalities, the people who work there, are a little more provocative, a little more active, when running projects from these municipalities are at stake. So, let's say for the Bujanovac municipality, here, you have a 48 million dinar cattle market project at Marija Obradovic, and we haven't even received a document from the Bujanovac municipality yet, and the money is in the account that needs to be used. Let's say, this year, let's look at 2021, unconnected to the budget, and I think that's very important, so we don't need all the money coming from the budget, and it's possible that all the money comes from the budget, but it's very important that you run through the projects what you think is a priority, and that some ministries answer those projects and provide money for it. For example, only this year, in 2021, the Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja municipalities received 93.7 million dinars more than the planned initial budget for this year through projects that you have meanwhile run towards individual ministries. So, say Bujanovac, 1.5 million dinars for the purchase of buckets and containers, Ministry of State Administration and local self-government 4.1 million dinars, improvement of public infrastructure, Ministry of Agriculture, 14.9 million dinars for the development of cooperatives, Ministry of Labour 5.86 million dinars for social protection services, and you have at Minister Tonchev, therefore, for the Ministry of Not Developed Areas 7 million dinars for the purchase of a working machine, 1.2 million dinars for projecting in the area of low construction. So, 26 million dinars for projects that you have run for, or the Bujanovac municipality, where the relevant ministries have responded and provided the necessary funding. For Presevo, for example, the Ministry of Labour provided 4.8 million dinars this year - social protection services, the Ministry of Culture five million dinars - cities in Focus, the Ministry of Not Developed Areas 1.7 million dinars - project technical documentation for the construction of sidewalks and 6.1 million dinars for the organisation of the green market, and the Ministry of Health 4.7 million dinars for the purchase of a sanity vehicle. So, a total of 17.7 million dinars, through projects, again, which the Presevo municipality has run for and for which the relevant ministries provided money. When it comes to Medvedja, via the Ministry of Local Self-Government 9.3 million dinars for the rehabilitation of PU "Mlados", 4.2 million dinars for the cleaning of riverbeds and the rehabilitation of river network, the Ministry of Agriculture of the Village 7.5 million dinars for the development of cooperatives, the Ministry of Labour 1.4 million dinars for social protection service, the Ministry of Environment 1.5 million dinars for the cleaning of dumps, the four deposits are, the Ministry of Tourism and Trade of Four million dinars, that's phase 2, the phase of health, you know that better than I do. Education also provided 74,000 dinars for heating for the "Nikola Tesla" Technical School. A total of 37 million dinars for the bear municipality. For example, when it comes to a project that is one of the most important for the citizens of Serbia, which is a project to complete sewage equipment and build a plant to clean water, let's say, and the municipalities of Sjenica, Novi Pazar and Tutin are part of a contract with the Chinese partner SRBS, so the municipality of Novi Pazar plans to build a 110km sewerage network, so for 160,000 citizens who do not have a sewage network. Sjenica – 53 kilometers, 16,000 citizens. Tutin 82 kilometers for 31,000 citizens. Let me remind you, we have already signed this contract with a Chinese partner and one at a time a local self-government as it completes the project documentation, so here is the emphasis on the completion of the project documentation by local self-government, since the funds are already provided, it is also moving towards the performance of the works. So, on the other hand, I'm responding to your amendment request, which is why we can't accept it, because simply, just giving out of the budget is limited by the funds that exist in it, and on local self-government, it's to be more proactive and more active and to run as many of their projects as possible. Here, you saw, just on the basis of these few projects I've read to you that all ministries are very responsible for balanced regional development. After all, my request to you is to be as active as possible in running for projects and then to see if we were successful enough or not. Because when I look at all these projects, and I'm going to talk to you, that's what I want to tell you, and with Mr. Mark Blagojevic from the Public Investment Management Office, let's see which projects are still at his place, because my last conversation was to have ideas for projects, but there are no more projects to be funded. If the projects are finished, of course, we'll provide funding for it. I would ask you to make this a joint effort, both yours and ours, to complete those projects. If we even need to provide additional resources, provide them with a way to complete projects and run them and then to ensure funding for them. So it's a two-way street. We have the best intentions, we have the money, we have the ability to finance. We are dedicated to the municipalities you mentioned. So, on that side, I can see the good will of both sides. Let's just run for projects, on the one hand, much more active and that, if we don't have the money for the projects themselves, then let's get the money for the projects so we can go on funding. Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I took a lot of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10691	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10692	Thank you. Just to add some concrete items, as the finance minister has already said that through the "Cities in Focus" the government of the Republic of Serbia has been helping these municipalities you were talking about. Through your speech, it implements that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not helped projects in these municipalities, so instructions and health care, infrastructure, but it is up to me to say how much the Ministry of Culture and Information has allocated funds to projects that are running through the "Towns in Focus" programme this year. I join the finance minister and I want to invite you to come to the Ministry of Culture and Information now that, in December, after the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget next year, the competitions start again, to come freely, to talk, to see what the priorities are in the environments in which you live and where your party operates. As for Priboj, I was here about a month ago, two on an official visit. I've been to the Cultural Center and the library. It really does show that the state invested, but in 2021, Pryboy got an extra five million just for the Museum of Deviation. Tutin Municipality 4.5 million, according to the project to repair the roof of the National Library. New Market 10 million dinars for equipment for the Cultural Centre and for the Regional Theatre. The Municipality of Medvedja 150,000.00 dinars, because so much is required to maintain literary events. I think that almost all the projects that took part in the cities in focus from these municipalities are also supported by the Ministry of Culture and Information. Of course, we're open to co-operation, to conversation, like anyone who participates in competitions. December is the month in which we need to discuss what are the priorities for the development of municipalities where you work as a politician, and where you live, and to define where we are going with committees working on these competitive documents that are important to improve the situation regarding infrastructure, but also cultural content in these municipalities. Because I believe that cultural development is also an important segment in the entire Republika Srpska project of remains in the environments where people are born and have their own houses, not that everyone is moving to Belgrade and Novi Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10693	Thank you. Minister Irena Vujovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10694	Thank you very much. I'd like to answer about the dump in Sjenica, which is why my colleague, Ambassador Tandir, asked the same question. I have to say that the project is currently under way to close the non-sanitary dump in Sjenica, and at the end of November we will choose the performer, i.e. the procurement procedure will be completed. I'd also like to inform you about the municipalities you mentioned. As the finance minister said, I must point out once again, first of all, what is important in Bujanovac, which we have cleaned up "Light" Bujanovac, historical waste. This is extremely important from the point of view of environmental protection, because it certainly affected the quality and air, and water, and the country, there were several hundred tons of various wastes, amounted to tanks for over 20 days, and finally that location was cleared in zero. That's what's very important to mention. When we talk about Tutin, I would also like to say that the current projecting is under way for the Regional Centre of Tutin, Novi Pazar and Raska. So that's what we follow daily, the funds have been transferred, procurement is scheduled and is currently working on designing the project after the artist has been selected. Like we said about Bear, four deposits per million and a half dinars have been cleared. We also have evidence, reports of that. I ask the residents at this time not to re-do dumps at those locations that we have already successfully cleaned all of them with common forces, 130 buckets and 120 containers were given to Bujanovac. I'd just take a chance right now, we've got a lot more projects to do, but I'd be happier if the municipalities were talking to us more. So, both you and your influence, of course, this applies to all MPs across Serbia, whoever can talk to the local self-government units from which they come, to prepare for the competitions. So, back in February, we're playing a contest. It might be at the end of January, we'll just see, of course, that after the holidays of all the New Year's Eves, we'll discuss it, for the shaming, the replacement of boiler rooms, the recovery of dumps and land and everything we've done this year. So we both cleaned up and dump right through the contest. Whoever has the ready project to run, we will certainly assess it, or commission and approve the funds, so I ask the municipalities to prepare projects for the replacement of boiler rooms in schools, hospitals and all other public institutions, city heat, and also to help this subsidy and the population, or individual households. We'll keep working together. When we finish designing the dump in Sjenica we will see what value of closing the dump itself, and certainly Sjenica will gravitate the transfer station in Novi Varosha and there regional centre that will start construction in 2022. So once again, I ask everyone to follow the competitions and participate actively and we will leave the funds for all the ecological projects that are necessary in these municipalities. You today have over 70 municipalities where at least one ecological project is taking place, and we will all advocate that next year it will be so in an even greater number of municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10695	Thank you. Minister Maja Gojkovic returns for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10696	I apologize, later I received information for Tutin, so Minister Vujovic reminded me in her presentation. Just that the MP has concrete data, that he knows how much the Ministry of Culture has set aside for the Tutin municipality in this year through the competitions "Towns in Focus". That's 4.5 million. It refers to the rehabilitation of the roof and interior interior of the National Library "Dr. Ejup Musovic" and the rehabilitation of heating in the House of Culture. As for the creation of national minorities, in the municipalities you have instructed, the Ministry has singled out 2.6 million in a competition for the creation of national minorities for different projects precisely for the municipalities you were talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10697	Thank you. The president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, National MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10698	Thank you, Vice President. Honored Prime Ministers, Honored Ministers, Collars and Col. These are the responsibility, continuity and investment, and I think that these principles are based on a budget that aims to increase, above all, investment in Serbia and raise the standard of living for citizens. When I comment on the budget, I want first to comment on the part of the budget relating to education, because I believe that education, i.e. investment in education, investment in science is the most rewarding investment, a multi-return investment, and for us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is always an education at the top of the list of priorities. According to next year's projection, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has defined 252.8 billion dinars and it is commendable that the sum is higher by 17 billion dinars than in the previous year. Education and science funds are taking an increasingly important place in the structure of the expenditure of modern countries' budgets, as this is the only way that countries become competitive globally. Education and science have long ceased to be the privilege of individuals, the privilege of rich people, and we think, the attitude of our party is that by investing in this area we achieve that education is accessible to everyone under equal conditions and thus we give motivation to young people to participate in the decision-making process, to place their ideas on our market and thus motivate them to stay in Serbia. When I say that we need to invest more in education, I don't think this process ends there. The Prime Minister just said that we have an idea to keep young people by investing in science. That's a really good idea. We have a hard job ahead of us. When we look back not a few years, decades ago when we look back, we will see how much our country has lost because young educational people have left Serbia. This is not just seen in the loss, first of all, for human reasons, but for economic reasons, when we compare as much as countries invest in these people, as they can contribute to their ideas in the economic development of the state, we actually come to a figure of several billion euros in losses, and yet we must not forget that the education of these people has paid our taxpayers, and they end up in other countries and contribute to the development of their economy. So I support this idea of investing in science trying to keep as high-quality as possible people in our country. Young people want to be sure that they will always find work according to their education, according to their skills, that they will be rewarded for their efforts. This is an indication that young people want certainty, that calm heads can plan for the future in Serbia, and it is up to us all to provide such a life for young people by investing in this area. I'm going to talk more specifically about the salary increase that's scheduled for the budget, but it's definitely the best indicator of why we need to raise wages is that educational workers deserve higher wages. That's the way to motivate them. They are raising our children, they are doing a very responsible job and it is certain that they deserve even more wages than they have now, but it also encourages this trend of a constant salary increase that goes from year to year, and I think that this is the only safe way to get everyone to the desired goal, that educators, teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers be paid as much as they deserve, and that on the other hand we do not endanger the stability of public finances. In addition, in the future we need to allocate more to investment in education and science, as education of young people and their innovation is a guarantee of the competitiveness of our economy. Investments in the area of education are, as I noticed, somewhat less than in 2021, but, of course, there is also a legitimate reason for that. Some projects that started earlier were successfully completed in 2021. It's for all praise. I will praise the successfully completed Project Connected Schools, which was jointly implemented by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and this is how it goes towards raising digital literacy, towards training young people to be competitive in a world characterized by the digitalisation and expansion of the IT sector. Building wireless local computer networks is a prerequisite for equipping schools with computer equipment, i.e. a prerequisite to revive the digital classroom project. It is commendable that the draft budget includes investment in higher student standards and implementation of the project of advanced wireless infrastructure for higher education. Of course, education is only one segment in this mosaic that is planned with the budget, and it is precisely through the budget that public finances mirrors can see that the interests of different social spheres and education that I have talked about and the investment of health, culture, social policy, etc. Public finances and fiscal policy are the most important instrument of development and economic and social stability in all countries and precisely the successful combination of different methods of public finance instruments and fiscal policy depends on the success of every economy. When I said at first that the characteristics of this budget were continuity, I was thinking first of all about the part relating to the reduction of the fiscal deficit. It is commendable that the projected deficit is 3% for 2022. That's proof that we're on the right track when we talk about public finances. Even by reading the Financial Council's assessment, which often knew to be very critical when it analyzed the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we can conclude that there are real chances that this deficit will be below 3% and what is important, that public debt, at least by projection, will be 55% of GDP next year and the most important thing not to break that 60% limit that is important, which is primarily defined by the Mastricht Treaty and which adheres to and developed EU countries. After two pandemic years, we can still count on stable finance and the principle of fiscal policy, the successful policy, is that in years of growth we save, not to accumulate new debts. We are thus reducing public debt and it is good that we leave a certain space for the future, so that we can invest and simply breathe easier when we talk about finance. Finance management is one area where control is the hardest, but it is also the most needed. In addition to constantly working on effective tax collection and curbing the grey economy, it is important that the budget is always transparent, that citizens of Serbia can always have insight into where every dinar from the budget is spent, from the moment the money enters the budget through taxes and other payments, until the final payment is made. I think a budget like this, this kind of projection guarantees that in the future we'll be able to have a public insight into financial flows. We went back to that level of economic activity that was characteristic of the period before the pandemic. That's why we can reasonably expect growth next year. This is what we can hope for, based on the data we have, because this year we will end up growing by over 7%, there have been some announcements that there will be even growth up to 7.5%, and the projected growth of 4.5% for next year, of course, is a good example of how public finances are effectively managed, but in this way we have shown that we are one of the fastest growing economies in the region. We, as a society, are faced with great challenges and are asked to work hard, responsibility and much perseverance in the interests of all citizens and what is very important, to have an honest and open relationship with the citizens of Serbia. This draft budget is currently depicting such a single relationship. So now we're talking about increasing public sector income, increasing pensions, doing all this based on real income, never making false promises, but trying to make it all in some real frameworks. The projected salary growth of 7.3% is consistent with economic growth, so we don't come out of one stable track. Therefore, wage increases and economic growth are taking a step-by-step, wage increases are not coming out of the track, and this is very important for future projections, i.e. for realising the budget in 2022. For us in the SDPS, it is very important to have a coherent approach in this triangle, between workers, employers and the state, when we talk about increasing the minimum labour price. This increase of 9.4% will make over 35,000 dinars. Satisfied can be workers. Of course, the Prime Minister said earlier that we wouldn't be dying, moving on, that it wasn't enough, but working on it in the future to reach one satisfactory level, but this increase won't damage even employers. In fact, the state did the part to transfer the burden of certain obligations to itself. It is a good thing it continues with the practice of gradual fiscal redundancies. To relieve the economy, the state has taken over part of the effects of increasing the minimum profit on itself. It increases the amount of the untaxable part from 18,300 to 19,300 dinars. Furthermore, contributions to pension-inhabited insurance on employers' burdens are reduced by 0.5%. And these measures, above all, need to contribute, i.e. to encourage new employment and to move employers to be motivated to increase employee earnings. Maybe someone will say that discharge is not a big deal, but we must not forget the fact that we discussed it last year at the same time and adopted a similar proposal so that from year to year there are less and less burdens for employers and we give them one space so that they can behave more easily on the market. These measures allow employers to work successfully in these times of crisis, in turbulent circumstances, and all those measures that the government has taken, which we have also supported here in the Assembly, to reduce the effects of the pandemic effects, have yielded fruit, so that there has been no layoff of workers, the level of economic activity has been retained, and we have been constantly working to increase profits. When we talk about increasing wages in the public sector in 2022, it is also important to point out that the part relating to the payment of earnings in the total budget is taking a smaller percentage than when we talk about the budget for 2021. I'll remind you that when we entered into the realisation of the fiscal consolidation plan, the goal was to make that percentage of the total budget for salaries to be 9.5%, we are now at 10.1%. We've put that level down so much. We're taking in a percentage of less money, and that's, of course, a good signal that we're on the right track to have stable public finances. We stick consistently to the principle of increasing pensions, therefore, according to the new formula. I think this principle is very effective for now. I will remind you that pensions are harmonised by the formula to increase on the basis of a 50% increase in earnings in the previous year, and 50% based on consumer prices. I think the pensioners, first of all, are satisfied with this kind of accounting and, of course, can be satisfied with the dynamics of payment. In this way we show that the trend of increasing pensions from real sources continues, and certainly, and we have just heard that help is welcome to the pensioners, this one-time aid announced for the beginning of next year. We also show this way that responsibility and pensions must enable our oldest citizens, first of all, to have the right to a decent life and a peaceful age. The fact is that everywhere in the world of states has become an incentive force for the development of modern society. Investments that come from the state in a direct way are important, somewhere more, somewhere less, for every country and indeed are one important economic leverage of development. This draft budget sets aside the funding for investments that are at the highest level so far, so 7.3%. It's above the level from previous years. This is how we build an infrastructure, we finish projects that have already started and we start new projects that are very important for Serbia's citizens' living standards. Work on building the subways was officially launched yesterday. I welcome such a decision, but as someone who comes from the King, I will praise and remind myself more of what was done in central Serbia's territory. It is very important for the citizens of this part of Serbia that the Milos Velika highway works to Preljina. It is also important that next year's stock will be completed from Preljina to Požega. For the citizens of Čačka, Kraljev, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kruševac and Pojat, it is important to work very dynamicly on the construction of the Moravski Corridor. When we add that the airport is open in the Kraljevci, we see that it completes one traffic infrastructure for an area where it gravitys over a million Serbian citizens. Of course, these investments in traffic infrastructure are a positive signal for investors and this directly reflects the economic development of this region. Also praised are some other projects, such as the next year's reconstruction of the Novi Pazar-Tutin road, then the fast track of Belgrade-Subotica, the Fruskogorski Corridor, the Nis-Pločnik section, the Belgrade-Zrenjanin highway, Belgrade-Sarajevo. All this points to one trend of flat investment in all parts of Serbia. And every investment, every dinar invested in infrastructure, in the years that come multiple returns through the budget. It's a good thing they're planning funds to build the National Stadium. The athletes do record excellent results and best represent our country in the world and we must also in this area that when we talk about sports infrastructure, we are moving forward with developed European countries. The importance of investment is equally important and the concern of the state for those of Serbia's most materially endangered citizens. That concern was best expressed during the pandemic because of the crown. All full-time Serbian citizens had the right to financial aid that came from the state and everyone could apply and it certainly proved that these measures came at the right time and gave the right result. What awaits us in 2022 in March of the month begins the application of the Social Cards Act, very important, not just because of this budget, but because of everything we're going to plan in the coming years. In this way, there will be a fairer redistribution of money towards socially endangered categories of the population. Now we'll have one central register where the data from all state services and the National Employment Service will cross over from both the Catastre and the Tax Administration, so I think the most vulnerable will now be getting more money, and the less threatened than it was before, and we'll achieve this one situation where, hopefully in the years that come, they'll both have socially endangered categories of more rights and in a easier way, they'll be able to exercise those rights. The health care money is pretty much on the same level as the last two years. So something higher than it was in the period before the pandemic of the crown broke out. We can't yet know how long this crisis will take, but I hope that we don't spend all that money next year on it, first of all, for human reasons, I hope that the crown will quiet down and that less and less people will need to heal from the crown. If we go back a year and compare the adopted budget proposal and the amount of funds intended to protect the environment, we will see that this initial budget for 2021 for ecology was around 8.3 billion dinars. Later we increased it by about four billion dinars of rebalancing. He has now arrived at 15.4 and one part will be withdrawn from the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and will be used to address environmental issues, so we have also shown here how the state should deal with these issues. We can't, we don't have a magic wand to solve all those environmental issues that have been piling up for decades, but in any case we're setting a good example of how these problems should be solved. We should focus on building regional waste management centres, investing in municipal infrastructure, and thus we will prevent environmental pollution. Finally, some economists represent the view that the budget is more political rather than a market issue. If so, it is up to us to make the best possible political decision, to implement the budget in the right way in the next year. I think that the budget is really good balanced and that's why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10699	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next speaker, let me read a note. You have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which found that by the appearance of the death of the MP, Dr Muamer Zukorlic, the case under Article 78, paragraph 8. The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same Law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point 8 and points 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time on which he was elected to the MP, Dr Muamer Zukorlic, on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be filled. The word is made by the president of the JS parliamentary group, Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10700	Dear Prime Minister, Ministers and People's MPs, JS will vote in favour of the 2022 budget, but first I want to look back at 2021. We can freely conclude that we have been, that is, the state of emergency for the last year and a half, not only in Serbia, but in the whole world, and that a huge result has been achieved and there has been no delay in the budget plan. All of what was planned was realised and started to be realized, and I especially want to praise the help of the economy where financial assistance did not result in the dismissal of workers, that all of these factories and domestic and foreign businesses working in Serbia could, in some way, cover what is called reduced purchasing power because all of these factories that work, I think of foreign investors in Serbia, were in some way reper, to say that the market has fallen throughout the world, and that the number of workers is very little, or one, very little job. This budget for 2022 is the development, social and budget that gives optimism on the basis of the realisation of the 2019 and 2021 budget, that we plan to continue when it comes to infrastructure all what is promised and all that is started to be completed in 2022, some projects a little later. At the very beginning, I want to say that several opposition parties have been sending false reports all along, and they are being denied by these very foreign investors who are coming to Serbia, because none of the foreign investors will come to a country where their capital has no security and that everything that is being created, they find themselves in these locations, and like they don't give something, instead of saying -- here, we don't let it be made, I don't know, a sidewalk in downtown Belgrade, "Belgrade on Water", because we did at another location something. No one lives anymore believes in Serbia, but we must not allow them to suffer because of their demonstrations, to block the streets, to stop traffic, to break, to threaten etc. They cannot be protected from the law for everything they do and for everything called a disturbance and a violation of public order and peace, because they no longer have any support, not to say protection, from those states that we consider to be "the Serbs". They used to be "Serbs," but we're not asking for anyone to love us, we're asking them to admit what's called deeds. The work can never be hidden and works are something managed by the Republic of Serbia and the government and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, and all that has been done so far has been in the interest of the Serbian citizens. I've visited a lot of states. I was in the Austrian Parliament 11 days ago. There I received a letter from the Friendship Group, from the Austrian-Serbian friendship, and I can tell you that what I heard from her, prepared me to speak, to present Serbia in the right way, that woman tells everything I should have told her and that we have huge support from Austria, one of the developed states in Europe, and that January of the month, so I ask the Prime Minister yes, seven MPs from the Austrian Parliament will come to receive them. I asked them to send them those lies that the opposition sends to all parliaments, that it is not true, of course, with the facts we have, to be the subject of their parliamentary clubs. Not only at parliamentary clubs or at the parliamentary club, the biggest party in Austria, but also that if there is a time for the agenda on the injustice that has been carried out over Serbia for years. So we're respected by one of Austria, Egypt. I had several meetings in Egypt with three governors, Governor Giza, representing 10 million inhabitants, with several ministers meeting in parliament, and Egypt is one of the most powerful states in the Middle East. Three, four days ago I returned from Hilandara and there the father of the iguman Methodius said that it was the first time that the Serbian parliament had passed the Law on Hilandar and that Hilandar had a special status in Serbia and in the Serbian Parliament, given that it was a sacred Serbian country and that you men who were never meant to leave at least once for your lifetime, that said St. Sava, and when you go there then you see how much you were not mistaken, but that there is really something if the line grows out of stone, if the well lasts 800 years, doesn't dry up and don't cloud the water and that those people there who pray for Serbia every day that they are respected, and we 250 MPs are honored that we had the opportunity to vote for one such law. You know how many NGOs are beneficiaries of the budget, and at least one quarter of these NGOs are working for the benefit, that is to say, the damages of Serbia and Serbia's citizens. Let me give you my regards from the igumans Methodia and the Government and the MPs in parliament. When it comes to Greece, we also have huge support, I am also the honorary consul of Greece in Serbia and Greece has recognised Serbia economically, but let's leave those countries friendly with Serbia. Albania has signed an agreement with Serbia on the "open Balkans", Albania, which has raised its children to hate Serbia since the birth of children as Kosovo Albanians and not to buy what is Serbian. That Edi Rama has signed with Zajevo and our president, the Agreement "open Balkans" where Serbia's uninterrupted goods will go to Macedonia, Albania and vice versa and we expect several more states to join the agreement. This means that until now, Serbia is doing well. We cannot expect Albania to withdraw recognition of KIM's independence, but they have recognised us, they have recognised us economically. The result is this government and President Alexander Vukic, and I must also tell the President of the Ivica Dacic Assembly, and our SPS-JS coalition, which supports and votes for all laws that we have a certain result. Let me tell you that some media have announced that we've had a fight with the JS with the SPS - we can't break the NATO pact either. So we didn't fight. We also agreed to support President Aleksandar Vukic as president of Serbia, because Serbia has not had such a president so far. I've been in politics for a long time, I've been a politician, and I've been a businessman for many years, and when I look at from a few angles what's been done in Serbia in recent years, it's just a name from Serbia, and Serbia's infrastructure has changed. Who hasn't been in Serbia in the last seven years he has to ask – is this, which street is this, since many streets have changed now, etc? "Belgrade on the Water," so you know what they were doing not to build "Belgrade on the Water", to stay those barracks where the rats are, and I don't know everything, reptiles in those sheds, barracks, but they think I have to go back to that opposition again, that they're going to get political points. Political points are obtained if you do something continuously, it is not now in the election year, but it has been done since the first day Serbian citizens have given confidence to these parties sitting here in parliament. I especially want to commend the growth in the 10% budget for agriculture. Be careful, in the year when the state of emergency in the world is that 100% of what is called the agricultural plan is realised, and by 2022, 10% the budget is higher. Once farmers knew that they only served when they had to go to the polls and go to the military, and today they know that someone cares about them and that now there is a much bigger market for agricultural producers. Let's just see how else we can help them reduce imports regardless of the international agreements of CEFTA and the Association and Stabilisation Agreement. We cannot prohibit other countries from importing into Serbia, but we can tell those who own large markets – friend, you must have at least 70% of the products of which are produced in Serbia, that it does not happen when we enter the market that we do not have 5% of Serbian products and thus we will directly help agricultural producers. Today, there is even development and infrastructure development throughout Serbia. We used to have only Belgrade and two other, three municipalities in Serbia, and today they don't look at municipalities small, large and medium because they once promised politicians to small municipalities only to win in these municipalities and they'll be fine, and then they say -- that's a little constituency, let's see how to help these big cities. When I'm with the municipalities, I have one remark that the number of residents for which last time, I think, in 2002, there was a list for example of Jagodina being treated as having 70,000 inhabitants, and we have 65,000 voters. Once again, Jagodina has 65,000 voters, and it's as if she has 70,000 inhabitants. If 25% of minors have, we have 5,000 refugees and are exiled from KIM who can't vote for local elections, only for republican ones, so Jagodina has 85,000 residents, and we get funding from the budget as a city that has 70,000 inhabitants. So 15 thousand citizens were damaged that way. I'm not saying there's someone's intention, but I haven't seen in the budget that the transfer funds have been increased, what goes on at the monthly level of every municipality and every city. I don't know about other municipalities and other cities. I didn't do it, but it's the only thing I've got going on in this budget. I also want to praise the construction of highways because when the investor comes to you, the interested investor is first looking at the infrastructure, how far away the airport is from the city where it should build a factory and that Serbia has the best conditions for infrastructure, that is, for foreign investors. We also have several airports, and we have highways. Construction was planned for the next 2022, and that's why we have so many foreign investors. It has never happened that the euro course has been still for so many years, and that is the same element that is important for foreign investors when they come to Serbia, not only for foreign investors, but also for domestic investors. When it comes to pensioners, I can tell you that for the last 11 years, it has been the first time that pensioners know how much their pension will be 2022, 2024, 2025, and that, while they were small pensions, they have had more than one-time assistance and the biggest one-time aid will be in February 20,000 per pensioner in Serbia. It's not because of the electoral body. They, he says, are not their money, and whose money were previously in the Republic of Serbia's budget? Yeah, it was the same state's money, but they went in two pockets, because in one pocket they couldn't fit everything, and those are pockets like they used to have farmers' pants off... This guy talks all the time, this gentleman. Sir, are you the secretary or what? After you talk to the minister, he's not stupid, he's not straying into this function, he's a businessman and he's come and it's rude to talk when I talk. What will be the answer after all this? Do you understand? Don't be angry. I don't want to teach you any lessons right now, but if you're here for the first time I've seen you, it doesn't matter what your name is, or what you do, honor those who talk to you, okay? Thank you. Dressed pants, that's what agricultural producers used to have pockets up to their knees and put money there, but this one Dragan Gilas has what's called back and forth defenses, he's put state money and he's not processed for it. He doesn't have to steal it, but it's called trade conflict of interest and our judiciary is silent because someone from Europe is going to say -- well, you know what, they're processing him because he's the opposition and he's attacking the government and the state all the time. We have no objection that they are criticizing us, that they are attacking us, but whoever is tearing down the national interest and the one who falsely accuses someone, also the minister of justice for false accusations and false information, or not information, but with interest, must have some responsibility. But they convinced Tanya Fajon and the European parliamentarians that everything they sought at meetings in the white world of these three clippers, who are represented as party presidents, that they got everything they asked for. And everything they've been looking for, and they're saying again -- we're thinking about whether we should go to the election. So, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has a good future and citizens of Serbia, I am sure that these lies will never be trusted by anyone else, especially when it comes to foreign investors. Look out, Germany, the most powerful state in the EU, has the largest number of employees in Serbia in their factories, companies, businesses, etc. Would they have come to Serbia if this were the condition of our opposition? When it comes to the Army, at some point not to be left behind, but so many tools have been purchased and our army is today for respect and respect. Not that we're conquering someone else's territory but to protect what's ours. When it comes to students, I can tell that the first time has not increased the scholarship for students in five, six, seven years. In earlier years, they kept increasing their tuition, that parents whose children were studying had no place to train their children, that more than 20% of children had to leave colleges, come back, work with high school because their parents weren't in a position to pay both apartments and everything called tuition. What else is important? It is important that fewer citizens from the interior now move to live in Belgrade. Much less. Because they have conditions in cities where they were born, where their children are, they have jobs, they have what's called sports, they have sports grounds. I'm looking at the other day of one opposition says, "What's a national stadium gonna do to us when it costs a lot of money, we can make something else out of that money?" So why didn't you do the other one? We want our children to be idols athletes successful, because athletes are the best ambassadors of every country. The intonation of the anthem when our athletes appear and we as a small country show how much we care about the result in sports and that athletes do not serve as once they achieve a high score to come to paint with politicians, they already know in advance how much money they will get for preparation, how much if they win one of the medals at the Olympics, the world and European championships. So, ladies and gentlemen, when we look at everything we've done, I can say so freely that it's a very high grade, and I particularly mind the opposition's behavior. When it was closing, what did you close Serbia? Now that we've opened, what have you opened? When something says "crisis headquarters" or whatever it's called, it's not like that, it's supposed to be like this. Every day 50 people die on average for the last year. What Austria has done, how it shuts down for 20 days, all alive, except for freedom of movement, does nothing. Imagine what opposition would do if this happened here, but it is a matter of protecting the lives of Serbian citizens. We don't need to watch what the opposition say, but what the professional part of the staff says and, of course, the political and economic who has to wash it all out. My appeal is not that people have to be vaccinated, but they need to be vaccinated. We used to hear - did they hear, the one there had a crown, did you hear that the one from a town died? Now every city dies. In Jagodina, for example. The average death rate is two people a day, from the crown just because they're not all vaccinated. He says - I'm not going to vaccinate, because those who have been vaccinated have received a coronary, yes, but they are much lighter symptoms and are not in the hospital. So each of us is tasked with appeal to the citizens. Who are the anti-vaxers, the respected prime minister and minister? Opponents now. A small number of people have those ordinary people who don't deal directly or indirectly with politics. Let's do the list a little bit, make it a task for the police. Let them protest, but let their names be published. Who are those who belong to the parties, what is their solution, etc. When it comes to blockades, the subway that was started yesterday began to be made, so 99% are opposition. Is that what the opposition is supposed to do? I understand it's someone's field, so that farmer came to defend his field, but he didn't. No one from that environment, who lives within a ten-mile radius, has come to object to what will be built by the subway. Wait, is that where Sinisha Mali lives? Is that where Anna Brnabic lives? Does Mary, vice president of the assembly, live? No, I don't. None of us live or you live. But they know it'll solve the problem of air pollution. If we say every day that Belgrade is one of the ten most polluted cities, then how can we eliminate Belgrade as a clean city? If we build a subway, we won't have so many cars and vehicles on the roads and streets of the city of Belgrade. (President: Please bring an end to the discussion, Mr. Markovic. ) Unique Serbia will support this budget because the users of this budget are every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. Let me just tell you one more thing. When you give money to local self-government, you check out the last five years who bought the car. They say it's a basic tool. Watch out for the rich! Where's your car? What are you doing in that position? They buy cars. There are five-six cities in Serbia, Minister Mali, who bought suddenly three or four "Scode". Where the hell are you going, buddy? Where are you going? Where are you going? They can't afford the money that you give to be treated as a basic asset. It's not a basic car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10701	The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10702	Thank you. For a short time, I feel obliged to declare and explain something to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and to this I was encouraged by a respected MP when he started talking about protests and demonstrations against everything that is being built, against every project that leads Serbia forward and into the future at this point, it seems to me to be a completely pointless trend. Today, in front of the National Assembly, we have a few hundred people who have come to protest the adoption of two laws - Amendments and additions to the Expropriation Law and the Law on Referendum, under parol, that we adopt it or that we as Government have proposed it and that you, as MPs, will adopt it because of Rio Tinta. I want to make it clear and loud to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that there is nothing to do with the truth, that it is one complete nonsense and nonsense and that only someone who has not read those laws can say that, and does not know anything about the Rio Tinto project. So, to be perfectly clear. As for the amendment and addition of the Expropriation Act, the law will serve only and exclusively that some projects of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia can be implemented more quickly. If we had such a law of expropriation, we would have completed the highway to Požega for St. Nicholas. Whenever they say it's the law to take someone's land or take a house, to tell you they're moving directly from themselves. They're going, again, and in everything, by themselves. No one can imagine anyone wanting to take a land or a house. They were able to kidnap children, so they can think today about maybe taking someone's land or house tomorrow. So they ended up with 619m euros, while 600,000 people were out of work. Well, people like that can imagine in their heads that someone adopts the law so that someone can take the land or the house. No one else in their right mind can imagine that. So this Expropriation Act is only and exclusively so that all these projects that we're implementing today and that we're going to start in 2022, all these highways, all these tracks, all these pipelines, can be realized and built in a more efficient way than we could have done so far. You've had terrible problems so far when you've got an illegal facility on the highway or tracks, that you can't remove that illegal object. The only point is that. In addition, I would also like to say that the amendments and additions to this law were two weeks in public view, that certain organisations, certain individuals, were sending their comments that of those people who today were outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we had not received a single comment, that they did not even bother to send us comments that, if they thought something was wrong with the law, they would correct the law. Finally, to return to Rio Tinto. As far as the Rio Tinto project is concerned, all of the countries currently owned by Rio Sava as Rio Tinta in the Republic of Serbia, all of them bought from people whose country it was. There's not a single parcel we need to expropriate or finish expropriation, not a single one. They negotiated and bought everything from people who had a country there, no part of the state, no interference of the state. So these people who sold the land wanted to sell the country to Rio Tintu, or Rio Savi. What do you mean, we can ask these people? But none of the only plots have been exploited. There's no reason for any single plot, no reason at all, the need to blow themselves up, because these people came in, talked to people, offered the price, and those people sold it themselves. The state didn't take anything from anyone, didn't expung anyone, didn't buy anything from anyone. The state has nothing to do with it. The Expropriation Act doesn't need Rio Tinto, nor is it designed for Rio Tinto, nor would they ever make me a law for individual investors. As far as the referendum law is concerned, it's a matter equally clear and equally simple. The referendum law had to be passed in 2009. The referendum law is just a alignment with the Constitution that they pushed through in 2006, they pushed through that famous 48-hour referendum, because they couldn't get most of it, so let's extend the referendum to 48 hours. Today you see all the hypocrisy when this is being protested by the former DS and all today's DS satellites. It's their law on referendum at the end of the day to tell you. So, in the Constitution they pushed that there was no threshold for the referendum, they pushed through the Constitution. It's in the Constitution, this is just synchronising. So either they don't know what the Constitution was then, which is quite possible, or they're hypocrites enough to protest what they were for in 2006. So, the referendum law is harmonisation. Finally, as for the threshold of success on the referendum, in addition to the fact that it went so with the Constitution, the Venice Commission finally said that the threshold should be such, or that the threshold should not exist, because when there is a threshold you give more rights to the abstinents than the people who want to participate in the decision-making process. So, in any case, none of the other draft laws have anything to do with Rio Tinto again, they have nothing to do with any single investor. They only have ties in one case, i.e. by harmonising with the Constitution that they brought in 2006. In another case with faster implementation, the implementation of strategically important projects for the Republic of Serbia, which is of strategic importance for each individual citizen of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10703	Thank you. Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10704	Thank you very much. Just to respond to a few comments from MP Markovic. First of all, I agree with you when it comes to funding local self-government. So that's the only comment you've had on the 2022 budget. I also think that some changes should be made. What I want to inform you is that the Commission for the Financing of Local Self-Government met last week. We have 11 new members, six appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, five in front of local self-government. What will be and what is the Commission's task in the coming period is that it is just considering the existing criteria and that we define either new criteria or a new way of funding local self-government, precisely because, if I am not mistaken, the same criteria have been in force for the last ten years, and I agree with you that a lot has changed on the ground. What is one of the preconditions to define the new system of financing local self-government is certainly also the census, which was scheduled to take place this year, due to Kovida-19. It will take place next year, so we will have a precise overview of the number of citizens in local self-government, which is one of the criteria for sure when funding local self-government or budget transfers are at stake. So, on that side, we've already identified the problem. We're aware, the Commission is in session and we're moving on with it. So I'll let you know that we'll be seeing each other here and at other meetings about the progress of the same. What is important to me for all the MPs and for all the citizens of Serbia, just to look at a few figures, and you mentioned to Mr Markovic, the subway project, the stadium project, therefore, huge infrastructure projects that are currently going on in our country. The proposed budget of the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Traffic for next year is 255 billion dinars, if you look closely at the figures. If that same ministry existed in 2012, the budget would have been 30 billion dinars. Otherwise, 255 is an increase of nearly 80 billion dinars compared to 2021, compared to 30 billion in 2012. Do we understand and do you all understand together how much Serbia has changed? That's the difference from almost ten times. We're talking about the subway project. We're talking. We're already going to build a subway project. The first two lines will cost about four, four and a half billion euros. Yesterday, President Vukic was at the opening, starting construction of a fast track between Novi Sad and Kelebija. That's about 1.5 billion euros somewhere. So that's already six billion euros for only two very important infrastructure projects in Serbia. Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable MPs, we have money for these projects. Serbia has changed, Serbia is stable today, strong, strong. Our public finances are stable, regardless of three aid packages of over eight billion euros that we have given to reduce the negative consequences of Kovida-19, helped our citizens, helped our economy. We kept every promise we made in the dinar, we fulfilled it in the day. The state pays off its commitments, and one of the main pillars of Serbia's further progress, and the budgets for next year are precisely those capital investments. So 255 billion just for the Department of Construction and Infrastructure. A huge increase. These are projects that completely change and the quality of life of Serbian citizens, who completely change, after all, and our country's perspective. We had, Mr. Markovic, you were right, a few dozen people who gathered yesterday in Makisha, so lost who, at 10, 11, 12 o'clock on Monday had nothing to do but spend two or three hours on a construction site, to interfere with honest workers doing their job. In the end, they left. The continued construction of the Belgrade subway continues. Let me tell you, they told us a lot in 2013 and 2014 when we were building "Belgrade on Water". They told us a lot of things. And that it was to release the dream and that there would be one bar, that there would be nothing and that the garages were flooded, etc., but we fought from day to day. President Vukic led the project, as you know. It's his dream. We dreamed and realized these dreams and made the most beautiful part of Belgrade, and plus we made the largest construction site in this part of Europe, where you have over 1,000 people working, workers who work and earn their bread on that site every day. Only on the metro project will you have over 40 large companies and over 500 small and medium-sized enterprises with their employees working on the project, fairly earning their bread, doing their jobs fairly, and making us do something that is the decades-old dream of all citizens and Belgrade and Serbia. So Serbia has changed. The projects we're talking about, so they could only dream of in the time of Dragan Gilas and similar to him, when they filled some of their pockets, private pockets of money, and we were in debt and the state of Serbia collapsed. It's completely different now. The dreams we've dreamed of for decades, we dear friends, are coming true today. We have neither a metro nor a national stadium nor a sewer project nor a wastewater treatment plant project, nor a "Belgrade on the water" or a fast track and trains that take a 200km-an-hour rail, and will be so in the spring, when it opens a fast track between Belgrade and Novi Sad. So ten years ago, eight years ago, we couldn't even dream about it, not even think about it. Now, with stable finances and a clear, firm, responsible economic policy, we have and what to be proud of, we have what to do and we have what to show the citizens of Serbia. These are major infrastructure projects, i.e. pay increases, pension increases, increased minimum earnings and large projects that change the way we live and which give a much better and more successful perspective to our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10705	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10706	Thank you. Dear members of the government, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we have the most important law for the next 2022, and this is the Budget Act for 2022. In 2022, economic development is expected to continue through investment in capital investment and raising citizens' living standards. This is seen in a targeted increase in pensions and wages in the public sector with tax redistribution of the economy, so as not to jeopardise the stability of public finances. The revenue and expenditures of the budget for 2022 are crediblely planned, with a large dose of conservativeity and on a real basis. The draft budget for 2022 envisions a continuation of a gradual reduction in the fiscal deficit compared to the previous year. The estimated fiscal deficit in 2022 is around 1.7 billion euros, which is 3% of the gross social product. The most important individual elements of the budget have been defined mainly fiscally responsible and economically sound. Pensions and salaries in the public sector, which represent the convincingly largest budget expenditure, remain under control, as we have heard. The pension increase is 5.5% defined by an objective Swiss formula, which is economically fine. The expected growth of wages in the public sector, which is on average 7.3%, is the same as expected economic growth. The detachment of the state to build infrastructure in 2022 was held high. Capital investment allocations are 485 billion dinars, which is 7.3% of gross social product. In addition, it is important to mention that in 2022 it continues with a good practice of gradual fiscal redundancy. A reduction in pension contribution rate by 0.5 percentage points is foreseen. The proposed budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2022 envisions a reduction in the fiscal deficit to 3% of GDP, which is 200 billion dinars. In 2022, the country's relative debt is expected to drop to 55-56% of GDP, but as we heard in the prime minister's presentation, it will be about 53% of GDP. The revenue in the draft budget law for next year has been conservatively projected. The proposal for a budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2022 plans revenue of 1.517 billion dinars, almost 30 billion dinars higher than the last rebalancing in 2021. The total tax revenues in 2022 will be estimated to be growth, around 40 billion dinars, which is about 3% and reach a level of 1.318 billion dinars, due to the growth of all tax categories, except corporate profits. The income tax is projected at a level of 87.7 billion dinars, an increase of over six billion dinars compared to the accepted rebalancing in October. Most of these incomes account for a profit tax that is projected to grow by 8.5%. In addition, for 2022, a continuation of tax redundancies is planned. The irrevocable amount of earnings will be increased from 18,300 to 19,300 dinars. The 2022 budget plans VAT revenues of 684 billion dinars, increases excise, customs revenues and other tax revenues. As for expenditure, the total expenditures of the Republic in 2022 are planned at 1,717 billion dinars, and are significantly lower than in 2021. Total budget expenditures are reduced from 1,793 billion October to 1,717 billion dinars in 2022, down over 75 billion dinars, i.e. reduction by 4.23% compared to accepted rebalancing in October of the month. Looking at the cost structure, we see that we have a reduction in subsidies, other current expenditures, we also have a drop in the framework of transfers of different donations and budget loans. It's all savings, but on the other hand we have bigger pay-outs in the public sector, and of course, as we've heard, we have bigger investments. Individually, the biggest increase in the year 2022 is the record of staff expenditure, resulting from an increase in wages in the public sector. Amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, which was tabled in the Assembly at the same time as the 2022 budget, have defined increases in earnings per ministry and other budget users for next year. It is predicted that 8% increase in salaries for employees in defence, healthcare and social protection institutions, while an increase of 7% is defined for other systems, education, police, administration, etc. We certainly support these changes relating to social policy, which improves citizens' living standards. Also, from January 1st 2022, a 9.4% increase is expected, so the minimum earnings will be 35,022 dinars, as we heard from the prime minister. As for pensions, the total expenditure for the PIO Fund, in 2022, will increase by over 63 billion dinars compared to 2021, and the basis is the indexation of a 5.5% pension according to the Swiss formula and the government's decision to pay all pensioners 20 000 dinars. As I said earlier, SVM MPs support the expected increase in wages and pensions, and we believe that these social policy measures are certainly commendable. We estimate that infrastructure investments are the same for commendation. Investment in health care, especially health infrastructure, continues, a total of 442 billion dinars are invested in the construction and equipment of general hospitals, health homes, gerontological prices and clinical centres. So, they end up starting projects in health care and starting new projects. The largest growth in infrastructure investment is planned in the area of transport infrastructure. We think investment in traffic infrastructure is the best budget trend. Transport infrastructure is predominantly roadside, railway, although the plan is also slightly higher investment and in the area of water transport, is a pillar of public investment policy next year, which is the continuation of the trend started several years ago and I commend it. The projects launched in 2021 continue in 2022, such as investments in Moravsky and Fruskogorski Corridor, such as the railway between Subotica and Segedin, such as the railways of Serbia and Hungary and several ports to be built in four cities of our country. There are also a number of new projects such as the highway between Nis and Pločnik, the highway between Belgrade and Zrenjanin, the bridge via Sava, the railway between Nis and Dimitrovgrad. Also, there are projects that reduce investments next year from 2021, which are the quick track to Belgrade – Novi Sad – Subotica, the highway to Belgrade – Sarajevo, but these investments continue, and that is commendable. Here I think we should also highlight the construction of the National Football Stadium with the accompanying content. The growth of investment in environmental protection is a total of 27.4 billion dinars. We're positively assessing these investments. This is undoubtedly a positive shift since it is about investments such as the construction of regional waste management centres, the project of district heating in Kragujevac, municipal and water networks in several dozen cities and municipalities across our country. We also positively estimate that the funds for agriculture are up to 10 billion dinars, as we have heard. The total amount allocated for agriculture is 62 billion dinars, the largest increase within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water is in the funds to encourage farmers. And we're positive about that. In the end, I would also say a few words about the funds allocated to the AP Vojvodina in transfers to other levels of government. These funds for the AP Vojvodina are totaling 134 billion dinars. Of this amount, transfers for checked jobs are dedicated and non-intentional transfer funds of 51 billion dinars, while dedicated and capital transfers for projects identified by the Government amounted to 83 billion dinars. Significant financial resources provided in previous years have enabled the realisation of significant capital projects on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The proposed budget for 2022 allows for the funding of 83 billion dinars for start-up and new capital investments such as fast first-class traffic between Novi Sad and Ruma, which is 17,5 billion dinars, the Hungarian-Serbian railway project 20 billion dinars, the construction of works on the E75 highways, the share of the Kelebija border crossing – the loop of Subotica 57 million dinars, the construction of a water treatment facility is 200 million in Kikinda, the expansion of the port in Sremska Mitrovica, a billion and 100 million, the improvement of the conditions for the shipping of vessels under the Tisa dam near Novi Becej 100 million dinars. Also, another port extends to Bogojev by a billion and 500 million dinars. Here we should also highlight the reconstruction and upgrade of the Horgos border crossing, which is a billion dinars. A project for the reconstruction and modernisation of the railway line between Subotica and Segedin, amounting to 10 billion and 200 million dinars, has also been envisaged. Then, a new highway-building programme between Belgrade and Zrenjanin for two billion and 360 million dinars. Construction of bridges and bypasses around Novi Sad, with access traffic is worth 100 million. The same important project, building a fast traffic station called Backi Breg – Kikinda, two billion and 360 million dinars. We still have a lot of projects. I'd only single out a few more. As for the grant of agriculture in Vojvodina, it will amount to nine billion dinars. Construction of a irrigation system, the first phase, is 547 million dinars, reconstruction of the Clinical Center in Novi Sad, Vojvodina, 865 million dinars, etc. In addition to the significant funds foreseen for capital projects, the SVM parliamentary group points to the importance of the reconstruction of local roads and to improve the living standards of residents in populated areas in the areas of local self-government of the AP Vojvodina. This is one of the SVM's programme priorities, covered by a coalition agreement signed between SNS and SVM, the construction of local roads and streets in local self-government and enhanced maintenance of state roads reconstructions in the AP Vojvodina territory. Accordingly, SVM will continue activities aimed at providing funds for achieving programme priorities in addition to those already realised. Finally, again to confirm that the SVM parliamentary group will vote in favour of the budget, i.e. for the budget law for 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10707	I thank the authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group. Honorable Members of the Government, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10708	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work in the afternoon session. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS parliamentary group, "Tri P", MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10709	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Is there anyone here from the government? If there is, I say hello. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have before us a draft bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2022. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" in the voting day will support this law and other proposals of this session and vote for. Today, when we talk about a document that has the character of the country's financial plan for one year and represents a forecast of the country's income and expenditure for next year, the 2022 budget is planned in line with the economic situation in the country and the needs of society. The good part of this budget is that it's realistically planned and that there's no major deficit planned. Also, the good side of this budget is that, as the budget is explained, the budget for 2022 is being developed on one side, when it encourages further development of the economy and marks a continuation of development, which essentially means continuing the implementation of the new investment plan "Serbia 2025". On the other hand, the draft budget has allocated more funding for salaries and pensions, which means raising citizens' standards to one higher level. At the very beginning, we can see in the first member of this bill that the planned revenues of our budget have now reached over 1.5 million dinars. They have never been on such a high level before, which is certainly a sign that despite the difficulties caused by the pandemic, we have managed to maintain a high rate of vitality of our financial system in a broader sense of the word. This is particularly important, given the fact that two years ago, so before the outbreak of the pandemics, when we first adopted the 2020 budget in this Parliament, we had predicted that around 1.3 million dinars would be realised on the revenue side. If the planned structure is also seen to achieve these revenues for next year, we can see that it is good to approach one careful planning and realization, and thus plans to make extraordinary and non-taxable revenues, such as the agency and public enterprises, are lower by some 18 billion dinars compared to another this year's rebalancing, and the same applies for income from legal entities planned to be lower by 11 billion. On the other hand, the increases are foreseen in value added tax, income tax and excise duty, and we hope that the planned projections of growth in the economy and domestic product in the coming year will be realistic and that this tax will indeed be realistic. When we talk about the spending side, of course we must accept the fact that a reduction in total expenditure is planned for nearly 76 billion dinars, although it remains rather high by over 1.7 million compared to income. If the rebalance was seen as a planned deficit of over 300 billion and now falling to 200 billion, we see that efforts have also been made here to reduce costs and thus improve the country's financial stability as much as possible. Although it will be necessary to allocate additional not so small funds to increase employees' earnings in the new budget, it looks forward to the fact that the estimated expenditure on subsidies and other current expenditures are now being managed to reduce in the sum of nearly 120 billion dinars. In essence, the increase in deficits due to the pandemic in the past two years has been the biggest of its work and it has been because of the closure measures, which has resulted in lower tax and other types of income, while we have been forced, on the other hand, to allocate significantly more funds for giving the most different types of subsidies, aid, sudden increases in costs for various types of public procurement. This budget plans to gradually return these expenditure items to those frameworks that we were in before 2020. While you are, unfortunately, still cannot return to those frameworks two years ago, it is positive that the budget is going to reduce them. When it comes to individual ministries, the users of the budget, I will, of course, remain at the Ministry of Agriculture for the village, headed by the president of PuPS Milan Krkobibic. At the level of the funds allocated, it's one of the ministries that spends the least, but I'm going to let myself say that it gives the most in relation to the funds invested. By revitalizing cooperatives, projects to buy rural houses and gardens for young couples, a big job, a job to rebuild and revive our village was launched, which was rarely taken into account in our history. At the annual press conference, the prime minister praised the ministry and Minister Milan Krkobic's work, in particular programmes to allocate grants to buy rural houses with a garden of young people and a working-age population who wants to continue living in the rural environment. The grant programme for the purchase of a rural house with a garden has exceeded all expectations with about a thousand registered citizens. Due to such interest, the government of the Republic of Serbia has approved additional funds with a budget rebalancing to ensure that all families that meet the conditions of the competition in this year realize the purchase of houses. This includes about 3,000 people with over 300 children. It is important to stress that the average age of users of these funds is below 30 years of age. These data confirm that this programme of the government of Serbia and the ministry of rural care has really begun the revitalisation of our village to young people who want to work and live in the country. So far, the most powerful project has been to support new and old cooperatives. For the first time this year, social and tourism cooperatives have been assisted. In particular, it looks forward to the fact that two Kosovo and Metohija cooperatives who met the conditions of the competition have also been assisted and received funds for the purchase of wartime machinery. The competition is supported by 18 old cooperatives and 39 new cooperatives, thus improving its business by 15 warships, 21 fruit trees, six cattle, four vegetable, four vineyards, four beekeepers and one cooperative that deals with the production of medicinal plants. Through a programme to support local self-government units to buy a minibus for the transport of rural populations where there is no organised transport, 20 municipalities are expected to resolve this major problem. The "Miholi village meetings" programme covered 961 villages in 68 local self-government. The programmes of these events were one day and several days. They include over 100,000 participants and visitors. Minister Krkobic and the ministry headed by him continues in the next 2022 with the realisation of these and two new programmes concerning the restoration of rural homes to multi-functional buildings and support the resolution of existential issues, i.e. the launch of business activities of a young and working-age population living in Serbia's villages. All programmes implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture are in the interest of the rural population and all in order to improve the conditions of life and work in villages. If we know that 41.5% of Serbia's population lives in the rural area, then this tells us how important this fact is. It is good that these needs are recognised as priority still, so this ministry has received a certain increase in its 2020 budget of 8.5%, as well as that the largest part of all these funds, with a planned increase of around 100 million dinars compared to this year's rebalancing, will be spent on various projects to improve the quality of life and infrastructure in rural areas. What should be particularly commended is that the budget is currently specifically set aside amounts of grants for individual programmes, so 502 million will be allocated to support the development of cooperatives, 501 million for the purchase of house with a garden, 154 million for the adaptation and construction of various construction facilities by villages, or former cooperative rural homes that are most often exposed to collapse, 120 million for the purchase of minibuses for the needs of the village's inhabitants to their municipal headquarters, 120 million to support the resolution of existential issues of the population in rural areas, and another 44 million for supporting the organisation of cultural events by villages and the mutual meetings of the village in Serbia. We are witnessing that literally every day media reports on the maintenance of cultural events across the country through the programme "Miholi village meetings". The aim of this programme is to enrich the social and sports life of the village population, cultivate traditional lifestyles and cultural and historical heritage. In view of my efforts for this project, I was personally present at two events in the village of Malošište in an underdeveloped municipality near Nis, or the municipality of Doljevac, and in the village of Donja Zapsko in the town of Vranj. The impressions are impressive. A large number of villages of these municipalities were included in the programme, as well as many performers of neighbouring municipalities. If our famous music creator, Mr Dragoslav Mihajlović, known as Canaryan, responded to this event, then it tells us how justified this project is to meet villages. I believe our other famous artists in various areas will respond to these manifestations. The audience was from babies in the hands of young mothers to grandparents at a very difficult age. We are aware that these amounts are modest in terms of needs, which is, in fact, necessary, I would dare say, and tenfold greater, I repeat, tenfold greater. But it must be acknowledged that one system has been established and in the coming years we must work to make these funds significantly increase, because in the end line there will be no losses, but the most obvious gains if our villages are preserved and made self-sustainable living areas where people will gradually come instead of going. Another important area for our parliamentary group that I would draw attention to is the PIO Fund's financial plan. What we keep insisting on is that this fund must return to a state of self-sustainability and this proposed financial plan seeks to meet this objective. Although an increase in funding to be received through government donations is planned, due to the planned further increase in revenue volume, they will further achieve expenditure coverage of more than 82% of the planned budget of the fund, a similar relationship that we have had for this year's rebalancing. This is a significant result, given the fact that up to ten years ago the state grant amounted to over 50% of the fund's income at one point, and that the percentage only five years ago was almost 37, so it was twice as high as it is today. This cannot be fully satisfied, but we can hope that if it continues this way, that, over a few years, these grants will be reduced to a single-digit percentage of the participation in the total revenues of the fund, and thus the valuable and significant funds of the Republic budget will be able to be relocated to other purposes. Dear People's MPs, the budget law may be the most important act adopted in parliament on a regular basis each year. Only the parts of the data that I have listed here, which are listed by the other MPs and ministers in their opening statement and the Prime Minister, it is seen that this budget is realistically based, that they are in one way measured to give answers to the crisis that has hit us, so that it can get through as few negative consequences as possible. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will give its support for adoption, and all of us will be tasked with helping to achieve it in practice in the next year. Certainly, the difficult situation in budget planning for 2022, as well as for the current year, is also caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus and the inability to see the consequences of this pandemic, which requires planning of certain funds. I as a representative of the United Pensioners of Serbia and the PUPS parliamentary group – "Three P", a party that has been identified as protecting the oldest population of the pensioners, older persons and socially endangered part of the population, as well as workers and proletaries and farmers, will take advantage of the opportunity to talk in this context about the need for the budget to have a social component that will meet the needs of a large part of the population. The government in general and the ministry should pay far more attention to our oldest citizens through specific positions of financial resources to ensure that the problems and needs of older people are seen. Given that Serbia is a state with a much older population structure and we are the very top of the European nation and states that have an older population and are valid for older nations in Europe, then we must certainly also have the budget and other legal solutions to adapt to this population structure. Serbia is a signator of a Madrid-based document called Madrid's International Aging Action Plan, which was adopted in 2002, which marks a turning point in society and state relations towards older people and envisions the construction of a society for all ages. This document requires the government of signatories to approach a new relationship between age and age issues in the 21st century, and the holders of these activities are the Government in general, and above all the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Sports, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the regional authorities and bodies of the unit of local self-government, institutions of social protection, health institutions, institutions in the field of education and culture in co-operation with NGOs and humanitarian organisations and associations of citizens. In accordance with this document, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a national ageing strategy in 2005 with the aim of creating an integrated and coordinated policy, which will bring society, the economy of the Republic of Serbia, in particular the health social, labour market, education, sport, into line with demographic movements, i.e. changes, to create a society for all lifetimes that particularly seek to meet the needs and free the untapped potential of older people. Elderly people have great knowledge, accumulated in long-term work, great experience but also wisdom, which is a characteristic of older people. That is why it is necessary for them to be involved in all segments of social life because they can still and want to help the social community. On behalf of 1,700,000 pensioners and another 300,000 old people who do not have any income, because they have not obtained the right to retire and cannot achieve the kind of social assistance due to the possession of some property on which they cannot earn income for a variety of reasons, making up a total of about 2,000 inhabitants of this beautiful Serbia. I will try to convince the holders first and foremost of the executive authorities that when planning the budget, not only the Republic, but also the provinces and local self-government, they are adequately looking at our oldest citizens. When we talk about older people over 65, and they're close to 300,000, they're not in retirement status. We all need to ask ourselves what to do with that number of our parents, grandparents, in order to give them at least a little more dignity in life. We at PUPS think there's a possibility that there's a lot to be done on that. The initiative of the President of the PUPS and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Milan Krkobic, to find the possibility of providing these oldest citizens with some kind of social or guaranteed pension of over 100 euros, thus showing our humanity and concern for that particular category of population. The Madrid-based international ageing plan, based on the Strategy on Ageing of the Government of Serbia, insists that the government, ministries are the bearers of activities in co-operation with NGOs and humanitarian organisations and associations of citizens. Serbia's pensioners' union as a representative representative of Serbia's pensioners with over 650,000 members, as well as the Third Age movement of Serbia, which is thus a representative representative of all third-century people, are also NGOs and humanitarian organisations and associations of citizens and as such bearers of all activities of older people in RS in the area of social needs, health needs, cultural and entertainment, sports-recreative, educational and other activities. Therefore, the government, state authorities and all structures of government at all levels should see the Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia, the Third Age of Serbia as partners in the realisation of its programme activities with the older population. (President: Time. If possible, the Honorable Chairman, to use time... (President: Impossible, sir. That's not possible. Here's two more sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10710	Of course, you have a dozen more minutes of MPs you can use when we get to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10711	That is why the MP group of Serbia's pensioners in the voting day will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10712	I thank the president of the PUPS Tri P parliamentary group and I apologize. We really need to stick to the Rules of Procedure. As soon as two other authorised representatives are finished, we'll move on to the list. You are duly reported, and when your turn comes, you will have another 10 minutes of the parliamentary group. The word is by the president of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia's MP, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10713	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Your Honors Minister, Your Honor, I thought the minister would respond to an earlier presentation, so I stopped for a moment, but later. I must first commend one, I would say, responsible and serious relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the subject we are talking about today, because today we are talking about the most important legal act, about the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Budget is life, even though we have an unreal budget, we also have an unrealistic life. Why do I say a responsible and serious relationship? Today, at the most part of the session, a large number of representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia attended, showing a responsible and serious attitude towards parliament, and parliament is the voice of the people. So the responsible attitude towards the citizens of Serbia, which is why we are actually doing all this today and doing it. As far as the 2022 budget is concerned, counterpart Markovic spoke and I fully agree with him, the budget, of course in the voting day, will support it, it is absolutely not controversial because this is the continuation of an economically-socially responsible policy, which is at the heart of just a human, Serbian citizen. On the other hand, this budget is developmental, but it is socially responsible. In addition to the difficult health challenges facing not only Serbia, but the whole world, Serbia has managed to preserve macroeconomic stability. Serbia has managed to preserve hard-earned fiscal achievements due to the government of Serbia's reform course, which began with brave, difficult, unpopular political measures in 2014. Today, despite the difficult situation, we can turn to what are essential issues and what are as did the Prime Minister, two pillars when we talk about this budget, which is growth and development and living standards for Serbian citizens. We cannot talk about next year's budget and not mention that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course with the support of the President of the Republic of Serbia, but also all of us here in parliament, has shown that the system can function when it is most difficult. Not only can it work, but it can achieve very good economic indicators and very good economic parameters. Someone said, it's true that when the opposition comes out and tries to criticise the budget. You can try to present incorrect data, not to say some different expression, to lie, but when it comes to economics, it's practically impossible because all of this is supported by facts. That's why I'm talking about the previous budget, first of all, which allowed two aid packages totaling 704 billion dinars, which is 12.9% of GDP. What is it that was done with these funds? Three minimum earnings were paid for more than a million employees, tax deposits and profit contributions for three months, more favourable loans, payment of one-off aid of 100 euros for 6.1 million citizens, and this is the best answer to the criticisms that are constantly coming from the Fiscal Council. 2.6 billion dinars were allocated for aid to farmers, the reference rate was reduced, the moratorium was put on loan repayment by three at first, and then two months later. In December, assistance goes towards catering, hoteling, tourist agencies, rental agencies, one-time assistance to pensioners of four thousand dinars, then five thousand. An increase in medical workers' salaries by 10%, all health care workers received a one-time aid of 10,000 dinars. With the first two packages, literally, the economy was saved and the economy was kept on stable and safe feet. The second package, in fact, the third package of economic support and support for businesses and citizens was worth 257.1 billion dinars, or 4.3% of GDP, and when we add all three packages together, that's about 17.2% of GDP. So, I don't think there's one country in Europe and in the world that's taken on such a burden of crisis during the pandemic period. I have already said the reasons why Serbia was able and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do so. This 2022 budget is a budget for a better life, I would say, for all citizens of Serbia. I'll remind you once again, the global crisis caused by the coronary virus hit not only our economy, but the world economy. Many countries have faced the biggest economic problems in the last few decades, and Serbia has managed to emerge with a responsible, wise, serious policy as a winner, thanks to the very economic packages I spoke about, preserved macroeconomic stability, avoided the dramatic decline in GDP faced by a number of world economies. This has contributed greatly to the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I repeat, which began in 2014. Implementation of structural reforms has yielded results. Serbia, for example, ended in 2019 with a record growth in economic activity of 4.3%. A record low unemployment rate of 10.4% was recorded, while the level of public debt participation in GDP was below 60%. Thanks to this, a stable fiscal position at the end of 2019, Serbia managed to achieve both economic and financial stability in 2020, a year full of temptation, a timely and responsible policy. Statistical parameters confirm that the pandemic has left less economic consequences for Serbia than for other European countries. Last year we had one of the smallest GDP declines in Europe and we are fully convinced that Serbia will realise that projected 7% GDP rate at the end of this year, perhaps over 7%. These are impressive results that really give us the opportunity to think about further increases in wages and pensions during the period ahead. And today, we can freely say that Serbia is on stable feet, the two foundations of the 2020 budget, as I said, the standard of living for citizens, the allocation of more capital investment funds, and it represents a financial and development picture of Serbia today. The 2022 budget plans to increase 4.5%, total budget revenues and revenues will amount to 1.516.8 billion dinars, while total expenditure and expenditure are estimated at 1.717 billion dinars. Public debt at the central level of government is projected to be 55.5% of GDP at the end of 2022, down from Mastricht level, which is also a major success. With this budget, the ruling coalition, the government of the Republic of Serbia, once again shows that it does not make empty promises. So this budget is aimed at raising the standard of living, towards raising wages and pensions. As was said in the opening statement, employees in health care, the military, social protection, will have increased salaries by 8%, while the salaries of other budget users will be increased by 7%. In addition, the minimum labour price for 2022 will be 35,012 dinars. That's an increase of even 9.4%. Pensions will be increased by 5.5%, according to the Swiss formula, and, among other things, several times, pensioners will receive a one-time aid of 20,000 dinars in February. Speaking of pensions, I'd only give you one piece of information. The total increase in pensions between 2012 and 2021 is 30.9%. We expect the average salary to be around 620 euros at the end of this year. So Serbia is slowly but surely heading towards the goal, which is that in 2025, the average salary in the country is 900 euros and the average pension is 430 euros. Economic strengthening of Serbia and raising citizens' living standards is a concrete improvement in quality of life among the top priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this shows and confirms this proposal we are talking about today. The budget for 2022 is a continuity in maintaining the improvement of citizens' standards. The state continues with economic and social policy. The second pillar of the development of the Serbian economy is the allocation of money for capital projects, which we fully support and welcome. We remind you, the previous budget allocated the maximum funds at that time to around 333 billion dinars, which seems to me to be 5.5% of GDP. Another 80 billion dinars were allocated to the rebalance, and this 2022 budget envisions 486 billion dinars, which is 7.3% of GDP. Only some of the significant capital projects, for whose realisation is provided in the budget are construction of Belgrade Metro, construction of the E 763, part of Preljina-Pozega, construction of the highway E 761, part of Pojate-Preljina, then highway E 761 Belgrade-Sarajevo, construction of the Fruškogorska Corridor, which was mentioned, the Hungarian-Serbian railway project, reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica-Segedin railway line, and much more. I would say yesterday was historic for all of Belgrade's citizens, because after decades it finally started building a subway. The idea of building and developing the subway is 70 years old. It's one of the biggest development projects in the country. Metro's definitely a long-term investment. It is a project of enormous strategic importance, in addition to allowing for a more high-quality and more efficient and environmentally clean mode of transport, the construction of subways will also employ a large number of people during both construction and construction, as well as during the maintenance of the system. All of this at the end of the line will affect GDP growth. There are currently some 1,300km of highways and fast roads being built in Serbia, and only in the previous five years, between 2016 and 2020, five thousand kilometers of roads were made, making local, regional and state roads. So Serbia is being built, roads are being built, railways, subways. The roads not only connect people, but connect us to the whole environment. It is important that we develop infrastructure. Every investment in infrastructure promotes the growth of the economy. No economics without infrastructure development. It's clear to everyone. Serbia is strong and economically stable today and is one leader in the region when it comes to attracting foreign direct investment. Last year, when all the world's economies were affected by the crisis, the inflow amounted to three billion euros, and in the first eight months of foreign direct investment, inflows amounting to 2,493 billion euros. A few days ago, I don't know exactly how much, but a few days ago one of the most modern, modern factories was opened, the German factory, which I say is the most modern and modern, certainly not only in Serbia, but also in the environment, which is a confirmation and an indicator of the rule of law, which we just talked about. We are often honored that we do not respect the rule of law, that there is no legal certainty in Serbia. You know, investors when they get somewhere they come not to get out of there, but to stay. This is specifically said by the indicator and the fact that in 2014 there were 17,000 Serbian citizens working in the German companies, with more than 70,000 Serbian citizens working today and that this year's trade with Germany, for example, will be three billion euros. The company "Bas" opened a factory in Subotica. It is true that the town of Subotica has allowed 10 hectares of land, that it has arranged infrastructure, but 65 million will be invested and 550 workers will be employed. So, the daily inflow of new foreign direct investment, and no wonder that the Financial Times has been putting Serbia back several years in the first place when it comes to attracting foreign direct investment as an attractive investment destination, because around when we look at the Western Balkans, the entire inflow of foreign direct investment is about 60% to 70% coming right into Serbia. Hence, the confirmation of that finding that there is legal certainty, since there is no legal certainty foreign investors would certainly not come. Construction of infrastructure projects, therefore, also foreign direct investment has a huge impact on economic growth. The Serbian government recognized it and, accordingly, designed the budget we are talking about today. The objective of the fiscal policy for 2022 is to support the purchasing power of the population, i.e. to improve the material position of Serbian citizens and to continue capital investment. This budget is the result, therefore, of a responsible economic policy, of guaranteeing better lives for citizens, of economic growth, of reducing unemployment, of new jobs, of further increasing investment activities and of it being a picture of a great success, of our economic strength and economic stability. It's very important, this is what my colleague was talking about, which is far greater funds for agriculture, because this period behind us, the pandemic period has shown that when it's most difficult you can always rely on only two basic or stable resources, which are your own resources, your own food, production and traditional friendship, that is, traditional friendly relations with traditionally friendly countries. We had no third kind of assistance and a third kind of support except ourselves and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia did. It is therefore very important that the amount of funds for agriculture is increased. If you'll excuse me very briefly, I'd like to refer to a project that was subject to criticism from the Fiscal Council, which is the construction of a national stadium. Namely, I'd refer to that news. Serbia's football team voted in the World Cup. There is little to say that there is no citizen whom this news did not cheer. In that context, I would mention the construction of a national football stadium. It is a major development project that will allow our country to also host an international sports competition, which, of course, would contribute to our country's economic growth. First of all, I mean a boost in tourism and trade. When the representatives of the Fiscal Council ask a question – where is economic justification? Here, economic justification in one sentence - tourism, trade, organization of major international competitions. Therefore, for this project, you also have the full support of the SPS parliamentary group, as I said in the opening statement, in the voting day, we will support the proposed budget law for 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10714	I thank the authorised representative, i.e. the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group. The word has an authorised representative of the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10715	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow Members, today we have had the opportunity to hear from both the prime minister and the finance minister and other ministers how far Serbia has really progressed based on those results that end this year, and also on the plans that we are making with this budget for next year. The most important detail in the fact that I think somewhere in the main argument when we talk to the citizens of Serbia is that when you look at 2020, 2021 and the one we plan to achieve in our economic part, when we look at GDP growth, that is, growth in our economy, it essentially shows high growth rates in relation to all countries, and even developed EU countries, at a time of the greatest crisis caused by the pandemic, but also those announced, the crisis under the influence of major inflation and certain collection of energy. This means that, thanks to Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia has taken advantage of both these crises and these risks and all the pressures to show that it is capable of coping with these challenges and to take advantage of all these pressures in the work that it has based on its capacities and shows that it is capable, because many of the world's experts have said that our economy is very tough and has shown this in the past year, but perhaps they have not recognised that part of our entrepreneurial spirit in terms of economic activities and our economy and the state that has pro-actively responded to all demands, not only Serbian citizens, but also the very economy. So, this growth planned for next year, of 4.5% of GDP, is actually the growth planned for EU countries, especially Central and Eastern Europe, which are one of the less developed countries. To show all these parameters that have been given in this plan for next year, we need to start with how our international environment is. We're in the territory of the so-called so-called. The Western Balkans and largely see countries with their particular macroeconomic indicators, results that they achieve in their economies and apparently Serbia, when you look at it, they pop up in their results. It also pops up by what foreign direct investment is for this year and for the previous year. It is obviously about 60% of the total investment in the Western Balkans. That is why it is important to say that we need to look a little wider, and since we are deeply involved in the process of European integration itself and we are acting in the process of European integration as a relevant country to talk to EU members, then it should be said that the results it achieves really go shoulder to shoulder with these countries. We think that the delta strain surprised not only the world, but also the most developed countries that have the most developed economies, because no one hoped that in this year the pandemic would really continue with its full capacity, or that the economy would really be unable to show high growth rates compared to 2020. Since yesterday, we have Austria as a member of the EU, one of the most developed countries where a bowdown has been introduced over the next few weeks. So it's a complete stop to the economy. You have a country that could not cope with the Kovid 19 pandemic in a particular segment, with this delta strain, could not cope with the vaccination process in the way Serbia is handled. Is that easy? Obviously not. Is it simple at all for the state as someone who needs to carry out the vaccination procedure and prove to the citizens that this is the only time of normal life, business activities, sectors such as education, culture, health care that has to be observed and the demands and medical professions must be heard? It is not simple, but something that has proved to produce certain results in Serbia. We have established this balance between the problems caused by the pandemic and the problems resulting from the functioning of the economy at a time of this crisis. What is most important to say is that when the IMF projected in general growth rates for both these countries in Central and Eastern Europe and developed countries, it says that it did not want to change that rate, and when it speaks for the next year that it is 4.5%, although in this year the global economy grew only 5.9%, Serbia grew, so it will grow by over 7%. We heard the prime minister, whether it will be 7.2%, 7.3% 7.4% or 7.5%, we have to wait until the end of the year, but it is very important to say what international environment Serbia is planning today in 2020 and achieves these results at the end of this year. So the expected recovery plan of the EU actually shows that the growth rates will go the same way as we planned. This means that the Ministry of Finance was indeed extremely responsible, wisely, conservatively, planning to grow. When we talk about inflation, expected inflation growth, we're talking about a high growth rate for this quarter today, but the National Bank, of course when I'm talking about inflation, has projected both this year and next year's average growth rate by 3.7%. I will remind you that inflation has grown record this year when it comes to the EU and the IMF expects it to fall by almost 2.7% next year. When we talk about interest rates at all, they didn't grow much, only 0.1% when we talk about Europe, but also the risks that are growing and productivity, they expect next year, regardless of the highest public debt, or the share of Europe's public debt at 98.7%. So these are the exact figures that talk about developed EU countries. What about Serbia? Serbia, as you know, ends this year with high growth rates, with a high percentage of the share of public investment most said in favour of infrastructure, but we are talking about that domestic demand, especially in the summer period when certain sectors of trade, tourism, traffic have grown greatly. That's why this domestic demand grew, which is why exports grew and the infrastructure, of course, is starting to earn what we finished from the traffic, but it also creates opportunities for that investment cycle that we started this year to continue in the following year. The real sector, what's most important, is the creation of new jobs. You had the opportunity to hear Mr. Vukic, who opened it, who said he participated in the opening of 55 factories, none of which closed and we heard today that 60,000 new jobs were opened at the time of the biggest crisis. So what's most important to us is that growth and the activities itself in the agriculture area have also shown high rates, this even shows that the part that applies to subsidies and support themselves in this year, which is going to be higher by almost 40% of the total revenues for next year planned and the project is 1.516.9 billion dinars, which is almost 1.9% higher, and the total expenditure planned for next year is 1.717 billion dinars, which is 4.23% less than we had when you're looking at percentage costs this year. That deficit was then projected for next year, which is 202 billion, which is about 3%. What we had a chance to hear from the Fiscal Council, that they think the revenues will be much higher. They even believe that with these rates, perhaps that deficit should be even smaller, but what they agree with next year's projections, that they are very conservative, wise and extremely tactically planned, especially since we know that we have to take into account risks that no one today knows to answer you about the situation in Europe, in the world when it comes to gas, when it comes to energy, when it comes to the price of electricity and when it comes to inflation itself. That's what we assume somewhere, as a state, as far as it will be, but we're not running away from thinking and that's what the National Bank of Serbia has decadently said on the basis of its research, that it believes that by July 1st, this inflation rate is going to fall considerably, because it will go through the warm season, that the part relating to the rise in the cost of certain prices to a few when it comes to construction, and agriculture, and the price of metals on the world market will fall and stabilise in half the following year. So it was very important for us as a state to make one plan, that within the next six months, really the whole situation that led us to have high growth rates, in some ways we don't eat it. I think with this plan that you've come up with as a minister and as a Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to this high level of public investment, in general capital investments of 486 billion dinars, which is 7.8% of GDP, is actually a guarantee of 4.5% growth. Remember, last year, we were also criticised for being able to achieve a 6% growth, so we said that's exactly why we think it's one guarantee that we're going to go to such growth rates, so it turns out it's not 6%, but it's over 7%. That's what we think somewhere next year is guaranteeing us this one economic stability. Of course, what's most important is that with this budget we provide a better life for the citizens, to think about their standards. That is why you have suggested that the increase in the salary of the barrel at that level of 7.3% on average, which means that the military, health and all social institutions will receive an 8% increase in budget and employees in this sector, and that everyone else when we talk about public funds will have an increase in personal income of 7%. Thus, essentially, all the good results you want as a government to share with citizens of Serbia who really had the strength to cope with all these changes that occurred around the world, including us. What's most important is that pensioners are never forgotten when it comes to the good results of the state. They, apart from having been recalculated from the state in this difficult time of 500 euros, each in terms of certain support from Serbia's budget, has a plan for next year based on this budget, and MPs will surely support it, it is a constant operation, so-called. Swiss formulas, an increase in pensions by 5.5% and a one-time aid that will be in February of 20,000 dinars. Minimum earnings, so that part that applies to untaxed personal income is increased by 9.54%, so it's no longer 18.300, but 19.300, and you have a tax redundancy for employers, which will be reduced by 0.5%. It may seem a very small percentage, but if you take into account the factories that employ a large number of people, then that percentage is not small if we find out that highly sophisticated technologies that have more and more today and employ young people with high personal incomes, then really this part of the redundancy of the economy is a significant benefit. When we talk about the dinar course at all, the National Bank guarantees this stable course of dinars and that's what's most important that it controls the anchor, so-called anchor. the anchor of inflation and controls the course of the National Bank. And, very importantly, what we had the opportunity to hear, that there are reserves of the National Bank and that they are 16.5 billion euros and that even in October, the National Bank bought it, practically managed to buy another billion as a reserve. It is very important to say that the subsidies in the following year, which are specifically designed, are exclusively for business and agriculture, that we now have one part of the resources that will be released, in terms of what was given in this year and last year, as consequences caused by the Kovid-19 crisis, and that's that figure from this year and last, of eight billion dinars. Now we have much less and therefore these funds are, of course, very welcome for the implementation of projects that are of great importance to infrastructure so-called. capital projects. There is also the conclusion of many jobs, when it comes to the Fruskogorski Corridor and the Moravski Corridor, the part relating to the construction of a fast-track traffic station, means railways, Belgrade-Budapest, and, of course, one of the most important capital projects Serbia has been talking about for 50 years, which is the beginning of building a subway. When we talk about building a subway, only for the next year is the five billion dinar figure planned in Serbia's budget. Therefore, this shows the seriousness of really this idea that this project should be seriously launched and that this realisation is going at the speed that has been projected by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministries, but most important is to say which sectors have led to major increases. First of all, the Green Agenda, which is one of the most important political platforms of the European Union, has shown that in Serbia it can live its reality, not to be the subject of certain political inexperiences and designing certain philosophies with which it is trying to get ahead of the citizens of Serbia and to get some more votes to get into parliament and finally talk about how nothing has been done. I'm sorry, but 36 billion dinars for next year's Ministry of Finance, in agreement with the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, has defined for the realization of accurate and real projects. So also when we talk about wastewater management, and when we talk about sewerage, and when we talk about transfer stations that are related to solid waste collection, it means eight transfer stations, 50 local self-government, will participate in such important projects. This is what we, as MPs, have to tell citizens, we deal with real life, we deal with the needs of citizens of Serbia, and those who think they will politically profit from are only empty stories that they want to achieve their own political goals for the next day to represent some factors, and then talk to certain experts from the European Union, who would tomorrow recognise Kosovo and, of course, shut down thermal power plants and change Serbia's life completely in one way that it ruled until 2012. So, those who have had experience saw what it looks like -- no salary, no pensions, no loan loans to pay the salaries to the educators, to pay the pensions. It simply does not sit on real grounds, it is not a policy that can lead Serbian citizens into the future, it is simply a policy of the past. They did not understand at all the political moment and importance why a step by step with development and Serbia and shoulder to shoulder with developed economies of the world. You should co-operate with everyone and have initiatives such as "Open Balkans", regardless of how easily you may have problems in the past with certain countries in your neighbourhood, but when it comes to economics, this economy brings results. This is what is of great importance to us, which is why young people should stay in Serbia, which is why we simply need to think about Serbia's future. Alexander Vukic recognized it. At some point, he always reacted extremely spotlessly, which means that he really reacted in a proactive way, and when it came to making difficult decisions, he did not hesitate to simply take steps that would lead us forward, which perhaps at times many citizens did not understand. What is important to us is that this budget next year shows that sectors such as traffic, when it comes to capital investment, police, means they have bigger investment in infrastructure, let's say for 2.2 billion, then the Ministry of Labour has more giving in terms of social policy, shows that what makes you a new value, infrastructure, is what you can actually share with citizens and through certain target groups that need the state to take care of them, which is a simple area of social security. When we talk about the Ministry of Justice, there are also a number of major donations in the following year, and we heard from our colleague Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, who will all be promoted in a certain way in the coming year, when it comes to infrastructure. For the first time, the Ministry of Local Self-Government has 26% higher budgets, with the transfer funds that many colleagues have discussed due to local self-government at 33.3 billion dinar levels. Of course, everyone asks local self-government to increase these funds, and the persistent government and the Ministry invest through projects much larger funds and that's what local self-governments have to get used to, to write projects. What is most important is that this budget was made to be investment, development, social responsibility and that what Aleksandar Vukic started in 2014 and 2016 in this regard, the investment cycle, as president of the state, that he continued with full responsibility. That's why in the voting day, we're going to support this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10716	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group “Alexander Vukic – For Our Children”. Since all the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have spoken, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10717	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, as you have already heard, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will fully support this draft budget for a number of reasons. Because the budget is developmental, because the budget takes care of capital projects and investments and because these capital projects and investments have a lot of what our rickety president, Mufti Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, has negotiated with the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. As you know, these agreements concerned not personal solutions, not personnel solutions, but strategic and infrastructure projects. That is why we are pleased that much has been done in this budget and that the policy of development of all parts of the Republic of Serbia is continued in the capacity at which it is possible. Of course, we are particularly pleased that this budget will include some capital projects in the Sandzak area, such as projects in infrastructure and in educational institutions, schools in Sjenica, such as projects concerning infrastructure development, gas pipeline completion and, of course, everything agreed. As a MP coming from that region, but also as a MP who is particularly interested in the field of culture, I am very pleased that this budget provides a more significant incentive for cultural development and for everything that represents culture in our country. I also say this by knowing that our rickety president in the field of education and culture has particularly insisted, because he knew that only through these two segments will we be able to clear up all those nebulas that existed and the trolls of those retrograde policies that were being ruled between the peoples of the Republic of Serbia and the region. That is why we are pleased that the Ministry of Culture will have a larger budget that will be able to equally affect all those segments of merger and different understanding of all the particulars that are made up of the peoples of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, these other segments that are very important and very important, which are also in the budget that are also facing ordinary citizens, which are these increases that all those employed in the public sector and the minimum. We believe that such a real policy that increases the standard of citizens year by year, we can respond to increasingly demanding processes and more demanding ways of survival compared to what represents real life and consumer basket. In addition to our commitment to say that this budget is indeed a developmental idea and the fact that it will cover all other sectors that are somehow guaranteed that ordinary man, that an ordinary citizen, will be able to expect some security in terms of a favourable economic environment, regardless of what one or more election processes expect in the next period. This is something that is particularly looking forward to, and especially this, as part of the ruling majority in this House, we are looking forward to making a full contribution. Once again in the end, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, support this budget with full capacity, will vote for it and look forward to implementing those parts of strategic projects agreed and signed in the Agreement between the SNS and the Justice and Reconciliation Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10718	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10719	I must thank you for your discussion and for commending, in a total discussion of the 2022 budget, the part relating to the budget that will belong to the Ministry of Culture and Information. Because of the public, I want to repeat the most important things, which is that the most important thing is that the budget has been increased by over two billion dinars compared to last year's or more, even 16% and that the total budget of the Ministry of Culture and Information is close to 14.8 billion dinars. From the point of view of the percentage participation of the Ministry of Culture and Information in the Republic of Serbia's total budget for next year is now 1.12%. I can boast that this is the first time in recent history and we have a budget for cultural participation, just without informing, over 1% which I must stress, we have reached that unofficial European minimum when it comes to the adequate participation of the culture budget in the country's overall budget, so that there can be no longer any regrets or analyses like this, did this government of the Republic of Serbia transfer these magical 1% to culture? We have a real basis for us dealing with culture, or all the people in this country, where we can share some real optimism, that this trend, because the state is good financial standing, and now it can single out both substantial resources and for the segment of culture, let's say that the culture budget is also a development budget. What I would point out, I will try not to repeat myself with the Prime Minister, it is certainly a new programme. We now have the funds and to introduce new programmes, which is the capital of Serbia's culture, which was first elected this year in one great competition, the town of Cačak will be the first capital of Serbia's 2023 culture, and together with the Ministry of Finance with the Prime Minister, a decision has been made to single out three hundred million dinars for the next year, and with their funds that will be almost near this amount, we will succeed in empowering one of the local self-government in Serbia both infrastructure and programme in the cultural segment. Of course, next year we choose the capital of culture for 2024 and as Chačak is shown, we will develop all the municipalities and cities in our country. I think it's the right answer to the decentralisation of a culture that's been talked about a lot more before, and it hasn't done much in the works. Let me remind you, next year, and we have done everything on the basis of a European project, the European Capital of Culture, and I am proud to say that my city of Novi Sad in 2022 is exactly the European capital of culture and I invite you all to find time and interest and visit Novi Sad next year from 13 January. He says, I'm rooting for Chuck, because they had a very interesting program, promises to build infrastructure, build two new museums. One dedicated to rock and roll, which Serbia does not have for now, one basketball museum and so on. So it's an innovative program. What is also important, which we do not talk about much, and I believe that with the good measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted in time, and these concern the promotion of the development of the film industry, both domestic and attracting foreign investors in this area. On the basis of these incentives, Serbia has become one of the regional leaders in this area. It has become an extremely important economic branch that is increasingly making revenue to the Republic of Serbia. I say, in a few years we've supported these measures of shooting 246 projects, they're like everyone's very visible, they're home movies. It is an exceptional number of large productions of domestic series and of course foreign films that essentially bring money to this country. So you can calculate that four times as much as the incentives are used in the Republic of Serbia during the shooting of these foreign productions. I say, that's close to 35m euros times four times and you see how significant it has become in the Republic of Serbia. With funds allocated naturally to the Serbian Film Centre, which is exclusively designed to help the film domestic industry start shooting films of our production. I'm not going to mention the other items, because I'm saying, you have a text in front of you and I'm saving your time. You've read all the individual items. I would like to point out that indeed after the adoption of an important Hilandar Act, which for the first time systematically regulates the care of the state for this important cultural heritage of our country. So, lasting concern, considerable funds have been allocated for the work of the Serbian Patriarchy Library, the Serbian Orthodox Church Museum, the Serbian Orthodox Church Archive, of 15 million dinars, as these three important institutions guard and care for the invaluable cultural and historical heritage of the Serbian people. And what I know is that the public and all of you here are interested, it's a project of cities in focus. We kept the amount of money close to 350 million dinars, and that was the case in 2021. In 2021, it was shown how important this is to be singled out, since 44 cities and municipalities are developing infrastructure projects in the area of culture with the help of these funds. It's mostly cultural centers, cinema halls, library renovations, smaller theater halls and the like. I say we have extraordinary resources to strengthen cultural production, artistic creation, 35 million dinars. I would like to stress that this year, before the end of the year, but it will be budgeted in 2022 that a category and a competition for national pensions that has not been called for for our country for eight years. We expect this valuable recognition in the coming year with respect for the procedure to get about 20 more responsible cultural creators. I see by the amount of call to me that people who are responsible for our country's cultural creation are interested, but I have to tell them, they have to go through the procedure in their associations, after the Commission's association of seven experts who will be elected, who will determine for the next year 20 artists who will receive a national pension again, that is, not a pension category, but a national recognition for what they have done in cultural creation. So my role here is very small, and I want to point out, with all due respect to all those who contacted me these days trying to get a recommendation from me. I am pleased that the Ministry of Culture and Information in 2022 can indeed show and say that we have made extraordinary financial progress compared to 2021. We have also received considerable funds for international co-operation, so for the opening of new cultural centres that we expect China, or Beijing to be one of the first to exchange visits, for the work of these cultural centres, but also for the mobility of our artists, for their participation and presence, as we had at the last Venice Biennale architecture where with the help of state and young architects our work was one of the best works, we can say in the mid-five in the overall competition which has not been recorded so far. The most important thing is that we have reached and exceeded 1% of the total budget, which is one unofficial data and a scale set by the EU. As far as the Information and Media Sector is concerned, as many as 1.45% of the billions of dinars are planned, all the media in our country are participating in a total of 330 million RTS, as in last year, are not scheduled for some funding that we would finance, and RTF as in last year, 900 million from the budget. As for the tender for sensitive groups that also contain national groups, 60 million dinars are foreseen. So five million dinars more than last year. So, all in all, as Minister of Culture and Information, I can be more than satisfied with the resources allocated, given the efforts and work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, that at the same time the President of the State has allocated funds for health care, roads, railways, for the construction of schools, for the construction of new hospitals, and then to allocate this many funds for culture is respected, but apparently an indication that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the State are extremely paying particular attention to the development of culture in our country, protecting cultural heritage, developing a culture of memory and presenting our country in the world through cultural diplomacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10720	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10721	Thank you very much. Dear Members of the public to take the opportunity to draw your attention and attention to a few other ministries and their budgets, so that you can clearly see the amount of investment and money that we draw from the budget for what we consider to be our priority. I'm thinking health care way too much here. So, one of the fights we've fought over the past 18 months is exactly about the fight for human health against the Kovid 19 panededmia, and just to give you a few figures to see how Serbia is successfully fighting and how responsible economic policy and stable and healthy finance have allowed us to allocate a record amount of money to our health care. In 2019, therefore, before the Kovid 19 pandemic, if we add the RFZO budgets, the Ministry of Health, etc., the Public Investment Offices also totaled 289.2 billion dinars, thus slightly more than two billion euros. Already in 2020, the figure is 398.8 billion. So over three and a half billion euros. In 2021, we continue with a record investment in health care. Believe it or not, a total investment of 441 billion dinars. So, just in two years from 298 to 441 billion dinars, so from two and a half billion euros to four billion euros total investment in our health care. The budget ahead of you next year predicts a similar figure, 442 billion dinars. So, four billion euros, we're giving out both these and next year for our health care. You're all witnessing that in record time, we've built three brand-new bird hospitals. Here, the Serbian Clinical Center ends here in Belgrade. We invest in a large number of other general hospitals, health homes, obtain vaccines, the necessary equipment, raise salaries to our healthcare professionals. This is another confirmation of a responsible policy based on responsible economic policy, and this policy is called citizens' care and care for their health. In the 2022 budget, I want to present to you health projects, but also projects related to other ministries, to know citizens throughout Serbia and how much money and what projects we will invest in. When it comes to health care, we have provided money for the House of Health "Dr Milivove Stojković" in Grocko, Dr Milivove Stojković, in Grocko, but health station in Pudaci, Palilula Home of Health "Dr Milutin Ivković", Čukarica Dom Health "Dr Simo Milošević", therefore, complete reconstruction of these health homes, Lapovo, their home of health also, Loznica Dom Health "Dr Milenko Marin", Medvedja Dom Health Medvedja, to end this too, in Raca Home of Health "Miloje Hadžić Šule", in Sombor "Dom of Health in Sombor", phase two, and to finish it. When it comes to physical health, you have money for KBC "Dragisa Misovic" for additional equipment purchase, and you have money for building "Tiršova 2", for building a brand new facility for our children and we have provided 900 million dinars for the following year. The total value of the works is nine billion. General hospitals, money in the budget for next year, General Hospital Arangelovac equipment procurement, General Hospital Leskovac phase two, complete reconstruction of the interior of the facility, General Hospital in Loznica equipment procurement, in Pančev Institute of Public Health project approved, "General Hospital Prokuplje" complete reconstruction of the interior of the hospital facility and the House of Health and the construction of a new operational block. In addition, next year we are expected to start building on a completely new facility that concerns health care, especially our children's health, which is the Centre for the Early Development of Children that will be implemented in the city of Belgrade. So, look at the times of the ongoing crisis that is under way because of Kovid 19 Serbia and this year and the following year allocates four billion euros to fight for the health of our citizens. We couldn't if we didn't have money in the budget, we couldn't have done it if we hadn't made a responsible economic policy enough reserves that when there was a crisis, and now the state crisis is behind its citizens. That brings me to the next point I just wanted to point out to you, which is the amount of deficits and the amount of public debt. Since we're talking about having more money, we're talking about the eight billion euros we invested to fight the consequences of Kovid 19, but don't forget, the projection of our 2022 deficit is only 3%. Here I have numbers ahead of me what the EU projection is. So on average 3.6%, minus 3.6% when it comes to deficits and some countries, such as Hungary, 5.7% project deficits for next year, Romania 6.9%, Slovenia 5.2%, Slovakia 4.2%. Why is this important to me to remind you? The smaller deficit that we're projecting is that we're going back much faster before the crown, that our economy and our budget, our finances are much more crisis-resistant than you can see, budgets much more developed or should be much more developed and economically stronger countries than we are. When you look at the share of public debt in GDP, we're all witnessing that over the past 18 months, almost all the countries in the world have been in additional debt to try to cover the high cost of fighting Kovid 19. You have countries that have over 200 per cent of their GDP share in public debt in GDP. The average of the European Union, you know, for 2022 is 90%. So, the share of public debt in GDP is 90%. For the Republic of Serbia 55.5% next year. This year, the share of public debt in GDP will be 58.2% by the end of this year. One Serbia, which may not have been so economically strong, shows that it can single out eight billion euros for three programmes to help our economy and help our citizens, while retaining its macroeconomic stability and keeping its public debt in GDP below that 60 per cent Mastricht level. Dear MPs, it has never happened that Serbia is winning in the area of economy. We have had great success, we have Novak Djokovic and athletes and always somehow individual successes have happened, but Serbia wins the economy. For the first time in his history, he wins and our competitors are no longer our countries in the region. We want and target more goals, much more developed countries than we are, countries that are both in the EU and the world. We want to reach their standard as soon as possible. That's why in this budget that's ahead of you today you've got and never greater investment allocations, and you've also got an increase in wages and an increase in pensions. Just three more things I want to say. So, not to forget, I was just talking about it, the Department of Construction, Infrastructure and Traffic 255 billion dinars. So, two billion euros in the 2022 budget. Compared to last year, an increase of 84 billion dinars. The record budget, the record money we spent on investment in road, rail infrastructure, sewer systems, waste water, etc. Agriculture, too. With the budget for 2022, the agriculture ministry's budget is 62 billion dinars, which is 80m euros higher than the initial budget for 2021. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, let's not forget that very important sector. So for 2022, we provided 19.1 billion dinars more than 2021. The total budget of 27.4 billion, 15.4 at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and 12 billion at the Ministry of Construction, since we are conducting the construction of sewage systems and waste water treatment plants in our local self-government. So the huge difference compared to this year, and this and next year again, I remind you, are the years where we still feel the negative consequences of Kovid – 19. The last ministry I want to mention is the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. The budget for 2022 is 253 billion dinars. It is 12 billion dinars more for education, for education, for our scientific and research work, and I think it speaks enough of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10722	I thank the minister. We'll continue with the list of declared word. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10723	I'm not voting for this budget for two particular reasons. One is a separation for culture, and the other is a separation for agriculture. It is true that for culture this budget provides 16% more funding than last year, but it is true that when you look at it from another angle, and that's when you see how much is allocated to culture in Europe and that it's always measured in terms of investment for culture towards one country's GDP, then you will calculate here that we have investments for a culture less than 0.3%. It is among the smallest investments in Europe. Since in SNS, one part of it advocates "Open Balkans", another "Serbian world", in both cases, some power that should affect our environment involves two things, not only a strong economy, but a strong culture, how will we affect if our culture is reduced to less than 0.3% of GDP? As far as agriculture is concerned, it's true... And everything, of course, is in the eye of the observer and at the reference point from which you look at everything. It is true that the current budget by ten billion is higher than the one that was last year, but it is also true that according to the agriculture and agrarian development legislation, we have to separate 5% from the total tax revenues for agriculture, and here, when all is collected and subtracted, 3,84% is segregated, which means that our farmers are cut by 15,266,286,000 dinars. This says that we do not view agriculture as a developmental opportunity for Serbia and we do not see that healthy and organic food is actually something that will be a serious resource and strategic resource in the century in which we live and that Serbia as a developing country would have a great opportunity to achieve something much better development for its people and its environment than what others are for us. This budget does not show long-term and medium-term planning, e.g. as some other countries do, such as China, which is planning for 20, 30 years, are already planning situational, but just because we as state and current government don't have a clear vision of how we want to develop Serbia, we're already adapting to the situations that are coming, it doesn't mean that some others don't have a plan for us, and it could best be seen through four items in this budget that you're boasting, which I am currently the only opposition MP in the hall I want to look at from another angle, from the point of view of those who belong to the opposition public, who have objections to the same items, just looking at them from the angle of someone who suspects that it's all very best for Serbia's development. First of all, these are four items that you often mention, capital investments, foreign investments, money giving to citizens and money giving to pensioners. Let's start with the citizens' money. You'll notice they're full-time citizens. It's very strange how many of these citizens match the voter list. Someone would say it's a long-term and permanent SNS campaign. Of course, funds have been given for the economy, but these funds that have been given to all citizens who will be voters tomorrow could have been targeted and produced a much better effect, but that also implies that we have a plan for development of Serbia that we do not recognize here. Capital investment, it is true, will remain developed infrastructure and roads and everything else you have done, but, on the other hand, anti-corruption fighting theorists say it is very interesting that, for example, corruption is best hidden in traffic and other infrastructure works, in the construction of monumental and memorial centres and in the purchase of weapons. I'm not going to deal with these two others, but the only question of traffic infrastructure is who we're going to know that, in addition to staying with this people and being your legate, is if someone has acted corruptly, it's only going to happen the moment you step down from power and someone else is doing it. As far as donations are concerned, i.e. money aids went to the pensioners, there was one thing that was constantly forgotten, which is that pensions were reduced and that was so violated the institute acquired rights, and then you got into a situation where when you took someone, because acquired the right is almost as property, it's like taking someone's floor house and then from time to time you let them use some rooms. Of course, it's long-term consequences, because when you violate the rights acquired, you've created a major problem in the rule of law. Finally, to touch foreign investments. That's what we talked about about Rio Tint and what the citizens were protesting almost in front of this building, but it's not about Rio Tinto most. Foreign investments are also 300 mining companies currently operating in Serbia, mostly foreign companies, and we have the letters of five mining inspectors to control, as well as labour inspectors who entered Ling Long only when the scandal with treatment of Vietnamese workers exploded in everyone's face. So all of this can be looked at from another angle and we can ask if this process in which we will these days by the Constitution to ensure that judges are more sudocratic under the influence of domestic tycoons and foreign corporations in the coming years? The referendum law, which can be concluded at the SNS Congress to be valid, the Expropriation Act in a fast and efficient way for users of expropriation, read - to foreign corporations and domestic tycoons, allows them to take away property from our citizens as soon as possible, and when you look at it, we realize that someone has a plan for Serbia to become a resource base for foreign corporations and domestic tycoons, and where they are emptied from people, to settle there, and with the Open Balkans clause, they will also get the opportunity to settle their families. Think about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10724	Thank you. Right on the line, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10725	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, we have had the opportunity to hear everything that Dragan Gilas and his media campaign has been up to date and what is worst, have you heard enough, and that is that the referendum can be concluded at the SNS congress, shows in fact that those who led Serbia by 2012 would have handled it - in their political conventions, far behind the eyes and peoples and citizens who should simply participate in it. When we talk about the referendum and the law at all, of course, that the National Assembly has organised both public hearings and the part relating to Parliament's openness in general on various issues, and on the matter of the referendum and on amendments to the Constitution. Therefore, what we have the opportunity to hear today is small political points that would like to gather individuals to fit into a certain group tomorrow that would like to enter this parliament, but Serbian citizens simply recognized it and certainly will not support such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10726	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. A number of government representatives have come forward for the word. The first word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10727	Thank you. Of course, I didn't expect the opposition MP to praise the draft budget, because it would be completely unrealistic, it would mean that our society has grown so mature that you can get your strength if you're in opposition and praise something, that someone else would believe you when you criticise negatively. If you say looking and making comparisons with last year's budget that the culture and information budget is small and then you make some kind of gymnastics that my fellow respected culture ministers across Europe won't recognize that there's zero, zero, zero percent, then that's saying that you can't admit that something's good and that something's progressed for the last few years and that when your eyes really tell you that. But, I mean, never mind, we'll mature someday. But people will trust MPs and politicians more in opposition if they change, even for what's good they say is really good. I can't agree, of course, with you. I think the draft budget is extremely good for this year, that it is the development budget and that it is seen in every segment and in every ministry that exists in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and especially in the Ministry of Culture and Information, where for years there are criticisms that it is a little investing in culture, and now there are exact figures and figures where it is seen that Serbia has raised the budget by 14.2 billion, that it is an increase of as much as 16%, and that Serbia, if we exception the part that is investing in information and we are talking only about culture, has crossed 1% of the European account from the single country's total budget. Ask now people who deal with culture if they notice a difference from three, four, five, six, seven and eight years ago compared to culture, meaning, from 2012 to 2021, not just financially? Every year, one repeats the same thing -- it doesn't invest enough in culture, we need more money, and nobody says that money is spent and where we should spend more money. And then there's a dialogue, and then there's criticism, and not always -- there's no money, there's no money. I claim that this increase has money for serious projects and for the serious development of our country's culture. I say, 1.12% is a percentage participation together for information, and over 1% for the cultural segment alone, and that's not a small asset at all. I now, in this year's time, as much as I have the privilege of running a cultural resort, and the privilege is to run a cultural corridor in one country and a great commitment, I see where we have success in spending budgets and where we are missing from it. But, I'm saying, the Serbian capital's programme, well, I expected you to praise it with your political agenda, because that means clearly decentralisation. Every year, if 300 million dinars are singled out for a local self-government, we have one major decentralisation of cultural policy and achievement on the ground. Imagine 300 million in one small local environment, what they can do, and then we have really one cultural decentralised state, and not that there are always criticisms that everything is happening in Belgrade as capitals of a country, because in all countries of the world, most things always happen in the capitals, or, let's say, in Novi Sad. So we can have more dialogue on what is needed in culture if we have some suggestions on how to improve it and not say it – nothing is achieved by increasing more than 1%. Here, talk to cultural MPs who are not politically engaged, so by various parties, if they notice progress, above all in the legislation, how many laws have been passed in a year. And to spend money, you have to have one, to speak to an earlier old dictionary, base, you have to have some laws at all, and then, let's not say, in an infrastructure way. I assume you visited a museum that you couldn't visit ten years ago because they were closed. If you're not, you can go with me, see Vladimir Velickovic's exhibition at the Museum of Contemporary Art here in Belgrade, because you couldn't see any of the exhibitions before, because it was an object that was, for unknown reasons, completely closed. The National Museum, not to speak. The National Museum, not to say, I suppose you've left, that you've seen it being opened by the pawn and the president of the state who was the Prime Minister when that project was completed and that you've managed to see now that the Republic of Serbia has treasure, and you couldn't see it while Dragan Gilas and his DS colleagues were in power because they didn't need the National Museum. So there is such a big dilemma in front of me – why do some cultural MPs cheer so much that Dragan Gilas returns or his contemporaries, when they shut down cultural institutions and not open them? As far as I know, one of his members was just about to pass a new law on theater replaced overnight. It's Mr. Koka Mladenovic, I hope he'll deny me, but I don't know how. Now, that's a big enigma to me, where it's really being noticed, as much as you don't like it and don't support the government of the SNS, our coalition partner, you don't support the president of the state, fortunately the citizens of Serbia support it, you can't even discuss the budget where you can see progress to get your strength and say, this is good, and you should do that. I say, we had fantastic development projects this year in 44 municipalities and cities of Serbia. I don't know when it's happened before. When could you go to a small place to visit a library that has been destroyed in recent years? Do you know that in these competitions "Towns in Focus", this competition should actually be called "Towns in Focus", because all local self-governments are crying out for their money to repair roofs. You know what that means? This means that for tens of years no one, one brick, has moved in these small cultural centers or local communities and what money is already wanted for. So 350 million is given. You have 44, minimum 44 new cultural objects in our country. You have the National Museum, you have the Museum of Contemporary Art. Project documentation is being carried out for the future new great museum and the scientific centre of Nikola Tesla. It's about who wants to come down to the train station to see what works at the History Museum of Serbia look like. Go to Novi Sad, and see how Novi Sad prepares for the European capital of culture. Look at how much money the artist's mobility has been allocated. There is no artist who spoke to the Ministry of Culture and Information and said – I have no money to travel here and here, and I am invited to participate in this festival. They all got money, no matter what they're called, no matter who they belong to, they all got money because they're a picture of Serbia. I think that one of the images of Serbia is certainly our culture and that these are our ambassadors abroad and they need help, but I understand the position of the opposition that cannot be able to say that something is right. This budget is a great budget and it shows up. Here, Minister Sinisha Mali read segment by segment and in each segment more and more money is being allocated. It couldn't have been if our country hadn't become a politically stable and economically stable state in the last eight, nine years. Only then can you have this many increases in all sectors and in all ministries. Well, that's my answer to you, without any evil intention of hurting anyone, but I'm just telling the truth that I live for that day when someone from the opposition will say, well, this is good for you. Then the citizens of Serbia will value you more, respect you more, and perhaps get some more votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10728	As I see it already coming for the word Vladan Glisic, let me tell you right now that you have no basis for replication. Now the word will be given to the minister, and we'll see if that changes. The word is Minister Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10729	Thank you very much. Let me take a look at a few false and false information that you've had a chance to hear. So the Agriculture Ministry budget for 2022 amounts to a little more than 62 billion dinars. Also available to our farmers are 12.6 billion from IPARD 2 programmes. When we add together, we get 5.6% of the agricultural budget compared to the budget's revenues, which is 0.6% higher than the 5% limit. So, I'd like to ask all those who are inaccurately, falsely speaking of certain figures to read carefully, to add, if they can add, and to come to the conclusion that I just came to. To remind citizens of Serbia, the 2012 agricultural budget was 40.5 billion. For next year 62 billion plus IPARD 2. So, in over 50%, let's just look at that basic budget of the Ministry of Agriculture in just 10 years. This speaks of how much we care for our farmers and how much we think agriculture is a potent branch that is stable year by year and contributes to our GDP growth. So that's the untrue number one. False number two is about helping Serbian citizens. We defined two priorities, if you remember, when the pandemic Kovida 19 started. One - fighting for our economy. Two -- a struggle for Serbia's citizens' health. What this MP who spoke a little sooner hurt the most, I understood, is that at a time when he was a member of another party, then, believe it or not, they shared money from the budgets with these political parties. It probably hurts him now that for these political parties, and for them there is no money from the budget, but money is given to those to whom that money belongs, which is the citizens of Serbia. So, we are proud that as the first measure when the pandemic Kovida started – 19 we were able to get out of the budget, if you remember, 4,000 dinars and pay off immediately to each of our pensioners, to help them ease immediately, as far as possible, the negative consequences of Kovida – 19. Then we said and offered, a key word -- to offer all Serbian citizens 100 euros to pay them. We said, if you need that money, sign in. A very clear, efficient, simple application procedure. As you know, over six million citizens have applied for this aid. So the citizens themselves chose to get help from their country, and the state was there to help and paid the aid in the dinar and in the day, as she promised. That was last year. Not to remind you this year that we paid 30 euros in April, that we paid an additional 30 euros in October, that we paid 50 euros in September to all our oldest citizens again. We paid 60 euros to all the unemployed who are at the unemployment bureau, our fellow citizens from Kosovo and Metohija 100 euros, plus another 100 euros for all those who did not have a job. Then they criticized us, so that, imagine, you share the people's money. They are people's money, and that money goes to the citizens of Serbia. In your time, that money went into your private pockets, not to the citizens of Serbia, and that's the biggest difference between you and us. I know it hurts you, but we will continue to support our fellow citizens, to support Serbian citizens, to help as much as we can and whenever we can, and another payment to all those who have applied. So, to all those who have applied, since I have heard and criticized goes indiscriminately to all citizens. No, gentlemen. It goes to those who feel that they need this help, who have applied for it. You know, 20 euros will be paid to all our oldest citizens, all pensioners, 8 and 9 December to all other citizens, as promised, once again in the dinar and in the day. This shows the strength of our economy, it also shows the seriousness of our economic policy and that at the center of this policy there is a man, a person who needs help, and we will always help people. The third lie or comment on capital investments, I am proud of all capital investments and all the money we invest in travel infrastructure, in railway infrastructure, in all other projects that are important to the citizens of Serbia. During the afternoon, I said there was a Ministry of Construction, Traffic, the Ministry's budget infrastructure 10 years ago would have been 30 billion dinars. The ministry's budget for next year is 255 billion dinars, almost 10 times higher. I'm proud of all the highways and all the roads and railroads we built, renovated, reconstructed. Not only is this important for traffic safety, to have fewer victims on the highways, but it contributes to faster transport of goods, to strengthen further our economy, to attract foreign investment, to domestic investment, to create consequently new jobs and to employ new people. It is the most responsible and the only possible economic policy. The fact that ten years ago, Gilas 619m euros earned for himself, instead of investing in infrastructure, instead of investing in railways, instead of investing in sewers, kindergartens, hospitals, like he didn't, so maybe we wouldn't have to do it now, but unfortunately, that's how we have an inheritance left, and we have to do it. The metro project alone will be over four billion euros, which we have provided to build both this project and we are proud of it. In your day, it was not because you put all your money in your pockets, and for the citizens of Serbia there was nothing left. That's my last comment on retirement. You left us an empty budget, at the expense of the Union there was money to cover part of the pensions, not to pay off the entire pensions. It's precisely because of the way you ran this country's economic policy in your time that you should be ashamed of it. Here you go. Give people back the money you stole and the money you transferred to your private accounts, and then talk about how and what someone else owes, and our policy towards our oldest citizens, they know that pensions are safe, that pensions grow year after year, that we pay our pensions in the day and in the dinar, as we promised. Never more pensions were more than they are today. Every time there's a need to help our oldest citizens, that's what we'll do. In the budget for next year you have 20,000 dinars that we will pay each of our oldest citizens in February next year and we will always be there to help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10730	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Given the content of the response, we can only continue with the list of reported. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10731	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, the budget debate always raises great economic attention every year. When you remember the 2014 debate, 2015, 2016, 2018, Mr. Minister, these were discussions, when the debate on Serbia's functioning meant that we were talking about key economic parameters that Serbia should look like. Today's debate on the Republic of Serbia's budget in 2022, both in the public and in the Serbian Parliament, comes down to one question -- Serbia is not disputed is economically strong, Serbia is a rich country, the issue is how we share the financial resources. In fact, the question is how do we have one part of the financial resources on the spending side. Mr. Minister, today in this time, to ask the best economists, the best finance ministers -- would you like to be finance ministers and create a monetary, fiscal and budgetary policy for 2022, I am convinced, that everyone would say – if I have to. Here, that's the difference between them and you. You were the mayor of Belgrade in a difficult time when you literally had to save the city of Belgrade from the financial crisis. We were there in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 to change Serbia's economy after 60, 70 years. Serbia's economy, both before World War II and after World War II, was quite dysfunctional, based on the wrong rules, on the Serbian belief that we cannot comply with the rules. You were here, Mr. Minister, in 2020, in 2021, here in the time of the economic crisis, in the time of, above all, the health crisis, if someone had asked us when the pandemic started to look like the 2022 budget, we would be happy to talk about the normal, normal trend of the Republic of Serbia's 2022 budget. When we talk about the budget, we're actually talking about macroeconomic parameters. Three key macroeconomic parameters – we are told that 7.4% growth is not a major growth in GDP. All right, it doesn't have to be, but if it was smaller, if 3% would be for Serbian history big. Of course, at this point it is one of Europe's largest GDP growths with 52 billion euros. That's the point. It says how economically powerful Serbia is. It's not our fault why we're at 52 billion, why we're not at 72 billion, but we'd be guilty if we stayed at 32 billion just two, three years ago. When we talk about the level of unemployment, and there is a key parameter, in the time of the health crisis when the whole world suffers the consequences, we managed to keep the employment rate at 9%, or two to 3% of the absolute unemployment level. We have an inflation rate and, of course, the budget, the citizens of Serbia, is not just the figures we're talking about. It represents how Serbian citizens experience us and how we make them better. The budget is also a difference in people, people who create economic policy, the Ministry of Finance, the president of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia. That is the difference that is created in Serbia's economic life at the moment. Of course we can talk about foreign direct investments that are three billion and over, the largest in this part of Europe. We can talk about the growth of personal consumption and state consumption at this point at the maximum and push the aggregate demand. We can talk about personal, private investments that are at GDP level 25% as never in history, about public debt of 55%, about the trunk that we have up to 90% that we can economically borrow in the next period of time, and of course we have to make sure that this debt is as small as possible because the challenges are large, but in principle we have enough space to borrow. Public debt is followed by the debt of both the economy and the population, which is relatively small. We have a number of indicators that say Serbia can function completely differently and better, but it is clear that Serbia today looks like a powerful and strong economy. To return to the remarks that are actually being respected, which is how we invest financial resources, that is, our social policy and our side of direct investment. When we talk about the funds we've given to the economy and the population, they're actually telling us that we shouldn't have done it, that there should be some criteria. These are the dedicated means primarily directed to increase, i.e. preserve, aggregate demand. It is a means that meant to put in the economic crisis additional amounts of money into the population sector and the economy and to preserve the aggregate demand. It is clear that the activity in the field was completely transparent, clear, that it was calculated by monitoring financial revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget and that it did not cause any economic consequences and you are right when you say that, I think, the first said Mr. Jokic, a member of the Republic's parliament, that anyone who wanted to sign up and one who had hundreds of thousands of euros in his account if he felt he could apply and that the state of Serbia would benefit him, would practically pay him 100 euros. What does that mean? That Serbia is a state responsible for all citizens. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is ahead of us in 2022. What we can all realize is that the economic situation in the world, i.e. the systemic crisis, is quite pronounced. At this point, we may not all be aware that the framework of the Republic of Serbia's budget is actually somewhere on the global economic plan, that Serbia can look completely strong, powerful and stable economic state, that its budget can be stable, economic flows are normal, but if you have problems globally you will have consequences for the Republic of Serbia's budget, that is, economic policy that is being implemented, that is, on the citizens of Serbia, and this is a disaster. Maybe we don't see today that the price of food in the world is the way it is, that markets are practically wiped out, that investment funds on the food market are huge, that buy everything they get, that we have monetary policy on a global scale, which is not clear and that makes inflation. There are frameworks for the Serbian budget and these frameworks, however we think they will not be transferred to Serbia, if these trends continue Serbia will have these consequences. But at this point in time, in addition to those consequences that are evident and which will happen and if they happen, Serbia is economically capable and what we talked about at the beginning, with its maximum economic parameters that are very clear to survive these economic challenges. As in 2020, we tried to defend and manage to defend the health system, as we managed to defend people's lives, as we invested in health and medicine, because we had enough economic resources to do so, Serbian citizens today should not worry. We will have quite enough financial resources to preserve the economic and monetary stability of the Serbian state. Will this mean that it will cost the Republic of Serbia's budget? Yes, he will. Will that mean we'll have consequences? Yes, it will, but these consequences will be much less than the consequences that all citizens feel at this point on a global scale. The strong and powerful state of Serbia that we have built, the strong economy we have built since 2014. The idea that Serbia can look different, if it is based on knowledge, intelligence and honesty, is what has led us into a situation to discuss this budget for 2022. If that were not the case, the budget debate would be similar to that in other European countries where inflation, problems that are huge and for which we do not have a solution. I hope and believe that this budget for 2022 will not have a budget rebalance. We would all be so happy to discuss the 2023 budget in December and say everything we planned in 2022, we achieved and we made our economic goal for 2022. If that is not the case, if we have to bring budget rebalances, and we will not bring them and we will not bring them because we do not feel right, precise and responsible, but because we suffer great pressures coming from a global level, Serbian citizens do not need to worry, Serbia is capable of any challenge coming from the outside at this moment. It is another contribution of politicians of this generation and economists, because we managed to, as usual, work through history, generate our internal economic crisis. At this point, we don't practically have these crises, but we're waiting for the consequences that come from the side. That is why this budget, which I hope will be clear, accurate and will last a year, and even if it lasts shorter because of the budget rebalance, is Serbia's strength at the moment and therefore it is not normal not to vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10732	Thank you. The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10733	Just one brief review of your presentation, dear Mr. Kovacevic. You said one important thing, only that the citizens of Serbia understand it as well. So the payment of aid to both the economy and the citizens, but let's look at the citizens first, it's at least for two reasons. One is purely economic. In times of crisis such as the crisis caused by Kovid 19, we simply wanted to give people money to spend that money, and they would spend it and they would spend it on buying the goods that mattered to them. That's how we maintained the level of economic activity. So there was still the traffic of goods, the transport of services. That's why we have a 0.9% drop in GDP last year. One of the smallest in Europe. So, smart and justifiable move when it comes to the economy. On the other hand, a very important thing, and I've talked about it many times, when you help people in crisis, you raise their level of optimism. They feel they have someone to rely on. In the past and in this year, during the times of the biggest economic crisis it was our Serbia, the state of Serbia that said – we have enough money, we are stable, we are strong, we want to help our citizens. Economically, if you enter pessimism, if you enter a zone where you're afraid of everything, you don't want to spend, then much slower the economy is recovering. You change your mind a lot slower, and you say, "Yes, I'm going to go better now, so I'm going to spend." We didn't let that happen. This optimism that we have created, the security we have given to the citizens, is extremely important. What did that lead to in the next step? Not only have we shown citizens that the state is safe, that it keeps its promises in the dinar and in the day, but we've given a clear signal to investors, that the state is also there to help when we've paid and minimum profits and we've organised schemes guarantees and all the other help we've given, where the economy has survived. We saved jobs, but we also built credibility when both domestic and foreign businesses are at stake. No accident, you have a figure that President Vukic came up with, for the first ten months of this year 3.1 billion euros in foreign direct investment has attracted Serbia. Most convincingly, over 65% of the entire region's investment comes to Serbia. Because in the times of the biggest economic crisis, we have proven ourselves responsible, that we are stable, that we keep our promises, that we have made this bridge of trust with everyone. Of course, greater direct investment for all of us, for Serbian citizens, means new jobs, higher taxes and contributions to the budget of local self-government, in the republican budget, more projects, higher wages, higher pensions. So, the healthiest and most logical, the only sustainable economic policy is the policy we are implementing. You can see through the budgets of all these years and you can see through the results we've achieved. I don't know if you see and I'm going to end this, this is the cumulative rate of real GDP growth for this year and last year. Here's the red one. Serbia's number three. We have Ireland ahead of us which we cannot view as comparable, because in Ireland you have a large number of companies that only have de facto headquarters in Ireland, such as Google, Facebook, epl, etc. Because of tax treatment, they don't have their own production here. And Turkey is ahead with a minus 0.9 last year and at least 7% of our GDP growth this year. I say at least, since the projection is my conservative 7%, the statistical department projection is 7.4%, we'll see October, November and December as we pass. We are the second in Europe or perhaps the first in Europe. In times of perhaps the biggest economic crisis, the health crisis, Serbia, not the best in the region, is the best in Europe at the rate of growth of its GDP, which is the most important indicator of the health of an economy at the moment, with a few moments ago I said, preserving macroeconomic stability, public debt relative to GDP is below 60%, below the level of the Mastrict. You may have on the fingers of a country in the world who can boast that they have responded in this way to the crisis, that they have built hospitals, provided vaccines, provided respirators, all that is necessary, helped businesses, helped citizens, remained stable and achieved such growth rates. The budget for 2022 is just the continuation of this policy, we build, we work, we fight for every mile of sewage network, for new hospitals, for new equipment, for higher wages, for larger pensions. Let me tell you, there's always been criticism and there's always going to be criticism, it's just a question of who dreams real dreams. We dream dreams about Serbian citizens, who are related to Serbia's progress, who are related to our children. It's our policy, and that's how we're going to continue next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10734	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered, I ask if the word wants anyone else who has not used his right? (No) I am concluding a principled and uniform search on the draft law. We're moving on to a search in detail. You received an amendment submitted by the MPs Kamberi, Imamovic, Beqiri, Kucevic, Hodzic and Bajrami. You've received reports from the board. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The word is Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10735	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, at the beginning of my 2022 budget statement, I would like to highlight one very positive side, which is that the budget came on time, i.e. a respected budget calendar. This tells us that this 2021 was a healthy foundation and a strong basis for budgeting for 2022. The budget that lies before us today is developed and turned to investment and raising citizens' standards through wage and pension growth. As we heard today at the start of the debate from the prime minister, the planned budget for next year is 1.516 billion dinars, i.e. slightly less than 13 billion euros. That's 38.6 billion dinars, compared to the 2021 budget, which shows us that very cautiously and conservatively it has approached the revenue side of the budget. It should be noted here that incomes are expected to be higher over the next year than planned, which we had in this 2021, when due to the increase in income, we twice brought budget rebalances. Since the expenditure side of the budget is planned, as economists would say, broadly, in the amount of 1,717 billion dinars, there can be expected significant savings, which is good, because in the conditions of the crisis, which is still ongoing and uncertain, it is responsible to plan reserves in the budget. On the other side of the budget, all increases are planned, such as a 5.5% pension increase per Swiss formula, a public sector salary of 7% to 8%, as well as a minimum labour price increase of 9.4%, and will be around 300 euros. As the prime minister said, it is not enough and we expect minimum wage growth, so that it can equalise with a minimum consumer basket. For us, the social Democrats, Rasim Ljajic, are concerned with the safety of every worker, every single individual in the business he performs, the protection of the interests of employees and their families, and therefore we support every increase in wages and pensions whenever it is based on sound and realistic foundations. When we consider all of this, i.e. the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, we come to the conclusion that the planned deficit of 3% of GDP, and since all the items that I have listed are planned in the flat, the deficit can be expected to be significantly lower by the end of the year, and the Fiscal Council forecasts even less than 2%. Let's just remind ourselves that in this financial year between the two budget rebalances from April to October, the deficit fell from 6.9% in April to 4.9% of GDP. If we compare these figures to the forecasts of the Fiscal Council to less than 2% of the deficits by the end of the next financial year, then it itself says what state our public finances are in. This low level of deficits also forecasts a reduction in public debt to 55.5% compared to GDP by the end of 2022, which is a great result, as all prospects and next year will see the year as well as the peaks and energy crisis. If Serbia succeeds in reducing public debt from 58.2, as expected by the end of this year, to 55.5% of GDP, and we know that the limit, or a red line, over which it is not good for countries to go 60% of GDP, then that, you will agree, is a good result. All of this is in favour of the fact that the budget is very carefully planned, that the revenues are planned conservatively and that it is expected, that there is room for the revenue side of the budget to be significantly higher over the year. What promotes economic growth is certainly public, i.e. capital investment, which is building roads, railways, municipal infrastructure, building and rebuilding hospitals and this budget envisions 7.3% of GDP, i.e. around four billion euros for those investments that stimulate, i.e. drive and push economic growth. This high percentage of the public investment budget currently stands out for any Southeast European country and this tells us that Serbia is doing a good job. When it comes to public investment, it should be pointed out that the budget for next year is intended for the completion of works on the construction of the vaccine factory, the only one in the Balkans, for the completion of the Clinical Centre of Belgrade, for the extension of the Vojvodina Clinical Centre in Novi Sad, for the completion of the Institute of Tropics and Infectious Diseases and for the construction of more hospitals across Serbia. For the party I belong to, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, this is essential, because we advocate the constant increase of our health system's capacity through the restoration of clinical centres, health centres, infirmarys, as well as the improvement and improvement of personnel. These investments in healthcare will also make health protection more accessible to all citizens, and make it easier for young people to work and improve. When we talk about other capital investments, seven highways and fast roads are currently being built through Serbia. The next year, the Belgrade-Novi Sad railway will be completed, as well as part of the Milos Velika highway from Preljina to Požega. This budget provides funds for continuing work on the construction of a fast track from Novi Sad to Sudotica, for the Moravski and Fruskogorski corridor, for the path of Požega-Boljare, for the bypasses around Užica, Kragujevac, Gornji Milanovac. This says no end of Serbia has been neglected. All these are investments of national importance that employ a large number of construction workers, and their completion improves the country's economic environment in terms of attracting investment, to raising living standards and creating better conditions for the lives of citizens and raising GDP. What I particularly want to point out is that the government has recognised the great importance of investment in environmental protection and that the time has come for the environmental problem to be resolved primarily because of the health of the population, but also because of Serbia's obligations on its way to the European Union. If we look at the division of 25 budgets, we see that 15.5 billion dinars were allocated for the environment this year, which is more than 50% higher than the initial budget in 2021, which was about seven billion dinars. If we add to this potential nine billion dinars that local self-government units have the opportunity to pull out of credit lines, then we get to 24 billion dinars that can be invested in protecting the environment. It is here now on local self-government to produce project technical documentation, to run for projects, and to take advantage of this possibility to withdraw funds from the loan. As far as I know, 26 units of local self-government have already developed projects that are currently under review and if they meet the conditions, they will be able to withdraw loans. There is also a need to add the planned 12 billion dinars to the Department of Construction for the construction of recycling centres and sewerage networks. When we add it all together, it's 36 billion dinars, 300m euros for the environment next year. Six billion dinars were planned for the Green Agenda alone, 50m euros for heat in Kragujevac, for the construction of a sewage network and waste water treatment plants, as well as for eight recycling centres. These are the largest funds for the environment so far, and we need to be aware of the importance of investment in environmental protection infrastructure, because in addition to providing normal living conditions such as clean water, sewage infrastructure, air pollution reduction, waste storage, investment in this area undoubtedly contributes and GDP growth of a country. In short, I would also refer to the division of the 28th Ministry of Energy, where we have for the first time the means to raise energy efficiency, i.e. to replace carpentry, façades, boiler rooms, solar panels, where the budget for the following year has been allocated to two billion dinars, i.e. about 16m euros. Since this is a job for which citizens are very interested and that, apart from the state and local self-government units, they should participate in funding these works, I expect greater interest from local self-government and that the budget for these purposes is increased year by year, as investment in energy efficiency is one of the sure ways of saving energy and reducing environmental pollution. Finally, something else that fell behind my eye, which is a reduction in funds for the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, by 60% compared to budget rebalance at the end of 2021. The budget is now 6.2 billion dinars. It should be said that through the recovery funds most hit by the pandemic in the economy this year, this ministry has received significant funds for the recovery of hospitality and that is why the budget for 2021 was around 13 billion dinars. However, we must bear in mind that hospitality is still under the influence of epidemiological measures, and I hope that a model, or means, will be found to help and recover this branch of economy. What I would also like to stress is an increase in resources for education, science, agriculture, culture. I am particularly pleased that Cačak, my hometown was chosen as the capital of culture in 2023 and that, as Minister Gojkovic said, Cačak will receive the museum of basketball and rock and roll. Chuck deserves it anyway, and I'm sure he'll justify his trust. In all, the budget is well-designed, it is developmental and it is a good indicator that the country's public finances are on healthy feet, i.e. stable and sustainable. That is why my parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, whose main postulates are a society that is responsible for the potentials it owns and spends only what it can earn, and the distribution of funds is done in a fair and solid way, which is largely based on the draft budget for next year, in the voting day, to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10736	Thank you. The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10737	Thank you, honourable MPs. Just to add something, to relate to your exposure, so you mentioned a project to build a sewage network and wastewater treatment plants that we're going through the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Twenty local self-government, and I think it's important that Serbian citizens know what local self-government is. So, it's about: Bačka Palanci, Becej, Nova Varoš, Bač, Bolovac, Priboj, Apatin, Bela Palanka, Pećinci, Lapovo, Temerin, Petrovac at Mlava, Negotin, Gornji Milanovac, Velika Gradište, Ruma, Novi Knezevac, Raška, Osecina, Dimitrovgrad, Književac, Bajina Basta, Srbobran and Divčibare, Razanj and Babušnica. So, respected citizens of Serbia have provided money for these 26 local self-governments to build a sewage network and wastewater treatment facilities, but it's only one part of the projects we do in local self-government. With the Chinese company SRBS, we signed the Agreement for the construction of the sewerage network and waste water treatment plants in 65 local self-government at 77 locations: Paracin, Ćuprija, Vladičin Han, Ćićavac, Luciani, Varvarin, Prokuplje, Novi Pazar, Knić, Velika Plana, Vlasotince, Surduvac, Bujanovac, Despotovac, Sjenica, Vrnjačka Banja, Milica, Banja Vrujci, Ljubovija, Mali Zvornik, Smederjevska Palanka, Tutin, Svilajnac, Aleksandrovac, Arandovac, Krupanj, Prijepolje, Vladimirci, Ljig, Ub, Mali Crnić, Merošina, Milica, Žabari, Žabrac, Kučević, Kušović, Kušuljović, Krumljemljemljemljamljamljamljam, Dolj, Dolj, Dolj, Doljevljavljavljavljavljavljak, Valč, Valč, Valvljavljavljavljak, Valrž, Valvljavljavljav, Val, Žrjevrž, Žržb, Žrjevrž, Žrjevrjevrjevrjevrjevac, Ž. The total value of all these projects, I apologize to you, the total value is 3.4 billion euros, and the total length, I apologize, the sewage network, this is over 500 kilometers. So, not only did we promise to do this, we provided financial resources, the projects are already under way. A large number of these local self-government constructions have already started, as projects will be completed will be launched in others. It was very important to me that for every city, every municipality I read the name that citizens know that this big investment operation, that we finish the final sewerage network to every household, that we finish the final wastewater treatment plant in every local self-government in our country comes and that the money for it is provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10738	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10739	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister Mali, Mrs. Gojkovic, when it comes to the budget that was on the agenda today, the JS parliamentary group will support it, and as far as this amendment is concerned, which is now on the agenda, we will not support it for one simple reason. If we need to draw one line that marked today in the comments, I can say, not because it is the president of my parliamentary group, but because it really is, Dragan Markovic said today that the 2022 budget gives optimism and the beneficiary of the budget is every citizen of Serbia. That is the basic reason why the JS parliamentary group will support this budget. Why won't we vote for this amendment? Because you said clearly in your presentation and set two goals that this budget should meet. The first goal is to raise citizens' living standards, the second goal is to continue capital investment and further develop the economy. When it comes to living standards, what is important for all citizens above all for our pensioners is that pensions will have an increase of 5.5%, plus one-time aid of 20,000 dinars, the increase in wages in the public sector is planned on average to increase by 7.3%. The minimum earnings are 300 euros and the average salary is 500 euros. What you promised, that's what you did, the amount for the untaxable part of the salary is 18,000 dinars. What's most important, there's a fight going on for every job. That's what we from J.S. kept supporting. When it comes to capital investment and further economic development, they are planned again at 486 billion. That's over seven percent of the total budget. I daren't even begin to list what's been done so far, what's being done now and what's going to be done next year. The growth rate of our economy is 4.5%. The budget you've made is just like in the last few years always cautious, conservative, and that's good. We always prefer to be surprised with some rebalancing where we need to increase some items, not that we need to deny someone something he planned. All in all, what the people would say, simplestly, our finances are stable, the cash register is full, and the promises are fulfilled. Yesterday on the Finance Committee, we had the opportunity to hear comments from the NBS, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, we had people from the DRI, from the Fiscal Council. What impressed me, and that's primarily the governor's comment that's definitely on the line, because fiscal and monetary policy can function the way ours function, only if you're on a direct line, and this shows that it is. What matters most to us, which is the stability of the dinar course. Is there inflation, the governor said yesterday that the danger of inflation exists and that's noticeable. We also have some prices that are on the rise, but we should always watch what happens in the environment. What we need to prevent and what President Aleksandar Vukic said the other day is that moment that the stock reserves are increasing and that we are trying to make sure that the energy crisis doesn't leave any consequences for our economy. When it comes to the Fiscal Council and Professor Pavle Petrovic, it is standard for them to always have something to object to, but what was noticed yesterday on the Committee for the first time, is that their critical comments were reduced to a minimum. From what I've noticed, Minister, he's mostly repeating what you've already told us and shown in the budget. He boasted of your caution, and I remembered only two things he apostropheeded. First, it's a social policy and a way of social giving. It doesn't agree with how you've been paying assistance to pensioners and all those who need this help so far, but we have no reason to repeat it or to waste our time, we from JS have praised what you're doing and therefore we give you full support to keep doing it. His second objection was to build a national stadium. Life can't stop because now what's happening to us with the crown is happening to us and because there's this general global crisis somewhere. What's good, which is that this budget shows increased exposure to culture, increased separation for science and sport. And it certainly should be for sport to stand out, because a few nights ago, we had the opportunity to be all briefly happy because our football players had achieved the observed results again. We will remember both Tadic and Mitrovica and Dragan Stojkovic, and we must certainly support the very result they have achieved, and this is the best way for such support. This encouraged me to say that for us and JS, it is a very important item in the budget that we have voted and passed the Law on the financing of the Hilandar monastery, because all Serbian rulers have helped and preserved this Serb sanctuary. Congratulations and I thank President Aleksandr Vukic first because he decided to continue this path, and I can thank you and tell you that I was a member of the delegation that Dragan Markovic Palma, the president of my parliamentary group, led last week, where all the JS MPs had the honour of visiting Hilandar. I was in Hilandar for the first time, and my impressions and impressions are great, and I call on all my colleagues to leave and, as they say and as a rule, that every Serb should visit Hilandar for once in his life. The president said that, but I'm going to say it again, that the iguman of Methodius thanked you and told us to convey the gratitude of all the monks from Hilandar and that we made it very easy for all of them to do what they do. What matters to us is that they have been praying for everyone in Serbia to be better so far and without this, and it is certainly easier for them and for us. I also want to take this opportunity when I'm talking about this national football stadium, to ask the finance minister to start another issue in the government of the national water polo training centre, which began to be built in Vranjska Banja. It's too serious an investment, a lot has been done, but we, unfortunately, without your help are hardly able to finish it ourselves. I'm sure you'll have an understanding and next year I expect us to be able to boast about such an investment. When it comes to Mr Kovacevic of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, he mainly said that it was difficult to plan on external factors, primarily thinking about the energy crisis and the situation with the covid, but, Minister, what was strange to me yesterday when Mr. Prof. Pavle Petrovic persistently asked you what the price of gas will be next year, it is an unserious question for such a serious professor, you are not Taravic that you can tell what the price will be. The Tarabics and the Crown couldn't predict, and we ask you to give us such information. When it comes to Duško Pejovic and the State Auditing Institution, what we have easily forgotten is that from 2002 to 2018 we have not adopted a single final account. When an entrepreneur fails to fulfil that obligation to the state, he receives such sanctions to question even the survival of his business. It's not an accident, we don't praise you for no reason, that since you're the finance minister, we've begun to adopt these final accounts and here's the good practice, and not just good practice, it's also a constitutional obligation, we continue to this day and day. What is commendable is that every budget since you took the helm of finance comes in time to this Assembly and gives us all enough opportunities to prepare ourselves well. From the above, Ministers, I repeat again, first of all, because this, according to Dragan Markovic Palma, is an optimistic budget, a budget that will be spent by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the JS parliamentary group is supporting this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10740	Thank you. The word is Akosh Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10741	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, the Presidency, Mr Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as our esteemed fellow MP, Zoltan Peck, has already stressed in his presentation as an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodina Hungarians, MPs of our parliamentary group will support the 2022 proposal for the Republic of Serbia's budget, above all because it provides additional funds for the continuation of capital investment and its adoption will ensure further acceleration of economic activity, the preservation of jobs and the maintenance of overall macroeconomic stability. The budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2022 envisions total revenues and revenues of 1.516 billion dinars, which represents an increase of 1.9% compared to the other budget rebalance for 2021. The country's overall deficit in 2022 is 3% of GDP, while public debt at the general state level is reduced and retains 56.5% of GDP by the end of the year, which means that the government of the Republic of Serbia continues to meet the Mastricht criteria. The budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2022 planned total expenditures and expenditures of 1,717 billion dinars, down from 4.23% compared to the budget rebalance planned for the year 2021 from October. The economic package implemented during 2021 directly contributed to increasing the liquidity of business operators and facilitating business, especially in those sectors that remain under a slightly stronger influence of the pandemic, such as tourism and passenger traffic, through the granting of domestic demand and thus indirectly affect economic activity. In parallel with economic measures, the mitigation of restrictive health measures has also resulted in a dynamic recovery of certain activities of the service sector most affected by the pandemic. The success of the economic package was verified by the absence of significant negative effects of the labour market pandemic and significantly preserved jobs and earnings, both in the private and public sectors, and the scenario of a more sensitive increase in unemployment has been avoided. According to the central register of compulsory social security in January-August, the average number of employees was 3.4% higher compared to the same period of the previous year. The strongest sectoral contribution of employment growth comes from the processing industry, trade, information and communication technologies. Despite the end of the effects of previously adopted packages of measures, early 2021 characterize better movements in the labour market than expected, especially in profit, as a result of returning to the path of strong economic growth and overall stability of the economy, and supported by the process of population vaccination and the gradual opening of the economy. During the January-August period, the average net earnings increased by 5.8% and amounted to 64.393 dinars. At work, more than half of the total profit growth was determined by the growth of profits in the processing industry, trade and health. In 2022, a real GDP increase of 4.5% was projected. This is the result of a permanent increase in the potential of the economy due to the effects of new export-competitive production capacities, as well as indirect effects of accelerated construction of road and railway infrastructure, as well as additional support in the implementation of the project from the Green Agenda. Dear People's MPs, our MP group welcomes that in 2022, fiscal policy measures on the revenue side are envisaged to further reduce the tax burden on earnings. An increase in the non-taxable part of gross earnings from 18,300 dinars to 19,300 was planned, while reducing the rate of PIO contribution to the employer's burden by 0.5%. The capital inflow in Serbia remained relatively high, contributing to the country's foreign reserve growth and strengthening resilience to external risks. This was largely contributed by the inflow of foreign direct investment. The total inflow based on foreign direct investment amounted to 2.6 billion euros. By the end of the year, favourable payment-silence movements are expected to continue, with a current account deficit of 3.9%. The inclusion of dinar state bonds in the renowned GP Morgens amount in late June, which is the result of years of dedicated work by the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will contribute to the expansion of the base of foreign investors investing in dinar state bonds, as well as the deepening of the domestic financial market, and thus to higher inflows of capital from abroad. The honourable MPs, as is known, have made it possible to implement significant capital projects in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, with the proposed budget of 82 billion dinars, to continue financing new capital projects: the fast traffic of Novi Sad – Ruma, the Hungarian-Serbian railway project, the construction of works on the E75 highway, the construction of the water treatment facility in Kikinda, the reconstruction and modernisation of the conditions for the transport of ships under the dam at Tisa near Novi Bece, the extension of the capacity of the port of Bogojevo, the reconstruction and construction of the border crossing of Horgoš, the reconstruction and modernisation of the railway line Subotica – Segedin, the construction of the highway of Belgrade – Zrenjanin, the construction of the infrastructure with the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the new infrastructure from the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the constructions from the constructions of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the constructions of the construction of the constructions from the constructions of the constructions from the constructions of the constructions of the constructions of the constructions of the constructions of the constructions of the construction of the constructions of the construction of the constructions of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the In addition to the significant funds foreseen for capital projects, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians points to the importance of the reconstruction of local roads in order to improve the living conditions of residents in populated areas in the area of local self-government in the AP Vojvodina. Dear People's MPs, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will vote in favour of the budget, as the government of the Republic of Serbia is making efforts to preserve public health and security, helping businesses to preserve liquidity and ease employment, i.e. the preservation of living standards and the liquidity of the population, continue to pay special attention to capital investments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10742	I thank Mr. Ujhelji, who was last reported for this debate. The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10743	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, first of all, I would like to thank you for a very constructive debate concerning the budget for next year. The 2020 budget is first developmental. So it focuses on the further accelerated growth of our economy, our economy and the rapid rise of the standard of living of Serbian citizens, mostly through the rise of wages, pensions and raising of minimum earnings. We have faced the last 18 months with the biggest economic crisis that has affected the global economy, which is related to the Kovid 19 pandemic, but we have also fought and shown that it is fighting for its economy, that it is fighting for every job, as it is also fighting for Serbia's citizens' health. Dear People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, a few years ago we set out to dream some dreams. Some of us have come true, but even greater dreams are ahead of us which we want to achieve for the benefit of our children and the well-being of Serbian citizens. This is our 2022 budget, developmental, with many kilometers of new highways, new railroads, new hospitals, new kindergartens, new schools, with higher salaries, never higher salaries, never higher pensions. That's the future we want to build in the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10744	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your overall participation in our work today. We hereby exhausted the debate on the amendment to Article 8. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the 1st item of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 175(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly can set a voting day for the draft budget during the National Assembly session, without waiting for the debate to be concluded in principle and detail on the other points of the agenda. In accordance with this provision, I set out Tuesday, November 23, 2021, starting at 1800 hours, as the Day of Vote on the 1st Point of the Agenda – the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2022, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance for 2022, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2022, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for Social Insurance of the Military Insurance Fund for 2022 and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2022 financial plan of the National Employment Service. I ask the People's Messengers to enter the Great Hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-23-0.u10745	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to decision, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 200 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2022. One year, with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Fund for Pension and Invalid Security for 2022. One year, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Fund for Health Insurance for 2022. One year, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Social Security Fund for the military security of 2022. A year and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2022. Before we move on to a decision on the bill, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution, the National Assembly adopts the budget by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2022, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 204, for – 202, abstention – one, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Nadia Beqiri, Selma Kučević, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 204, for – no one, against – 13, abstention – one, voted 190. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. I remind you, it's a 50. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The constitution of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 204, for – 203, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2022, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 204, for – 203 abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2022 by majority of the votes of all MPs. We now move to a decision on the proposals for decisions to give consent to the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations for 2022. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2022, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 204, for – 204. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. I would like to put the motion for a decision to give consent to the Republic Health Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2022, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 204, for – 203, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the 2022 Social Insurance Fund's financial plan for military insurance in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 204, for – 204. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2022, as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 204, for – 203, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. That's when we finished voting on the budget. I just want to remind you that tomorrow we're going to have a debate on agenda points from 2 to 15. It's Wednesday. The day after tomorrow, there will be a draft law on the referendum, and in the afternoon, a question will be asked to the government and a vote on the draft law on the referendum following the government's question. On Friday, we continue to work on the 16th and 17th points and amendments from 2nd to 15th points, and there will be a vote. Thank you.
