ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5234	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the seventh session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 162 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5235	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, my fellow Members and fellow MPs, my question has been addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm curious to know what they're going to do about the unselective deforestation in Sandzak that produces soil stripping and destruction during the exploitation of local categorized and untegorized roads? Before I enter into an explanation of the asked question, I would like to congratulate all Muslims in the Republic of Serbia on the month of Ramadan, the month of fasting that took place today. I would also like to extend my congratulations to the Supreme Chief of Muslims in the Republic of Serbia to Mufti Mevlud Dudic and to all Imams. As far as the questions are concerned, I must point out that earlier in the forest cutting, it was done planically, that we also had shaming, that it was taken care not to cause erosion, that it was not done in populated places, that people's lives, especially in the country, were not threatened by our water sources. Unfortunately, I have to notice that in the last few years, it has been done indiscriminately, that public enterprises and their branches, their management has only one race to make profits at all costs. Forests are the wealth of our country, but the forest in the Prepolje primarily belongs to the people of Prepolje and they must protect it and cherish it and protect it. The forest in Tutin primarily belongs to people in Tutin, and they have to protect it, care and protect it, because we're talking here for nothing about the development of agriculture if we destroy the woods. What will happen to the best of our land to wash away the rain? What's gonna happen to our cattle stock? For nothing, we're talking here about the Ministry of the Village, about the Ministry of Demographic Policy, if we destroy our forests that literally mean our lives? The wealth we have received from our ancestors, the natural wealth, we are obliged to guard them, to cultivate them and leave them to our children and generations to come. If this pace of deforestation continues in Sandzak, we certainly won't have anything. Let's leave them a question. Who's gonna stay there to live? For this reason we refer this question and now is really the last moment to react so that the situation does not escalate and we cannot allow it. The other problem that arises from this non-selective deforestation is the destruction of local categories and untegorized roads. So, for example, local self-government Prepolje sets out 100 million dinars a year from its budget, although undeveloped, devastated municipality. That's how other neighboring municipalities work to make these roads to rural areas, so that people can stay and live in the country, to develop our agriculture. What happens when a truck of 50 and 60 tons comes along that exploits the forest? He's destroying that path. The public company records income growth, management has benefits from all of it, and those people who have waited 10, 20 or 50 years for the road, their path has been destroyed and not just, respected colleagues, here about destroying only paved roads. It's about destroying the Atharic pathways. Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Agriculture allocates significant resources to resuscitate the Atarian roads to our raspberries, to other agricultural cultures, but when one truck comes across that can carry 50 or 60 tons, it destroys it all. What do we have to do? So, an emergency must stop the non-selective cutting of the forest, it must change its approach, it must be responsible, it must be stopped immediately from exploiting the forest in Sandzak and set off in the planning of the forest. I'm saying this so the situation doesn't escalate, because none of us want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5236	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Rosalia Ekres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5237	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, in front of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to address the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development concerning dual education. I come from Novi Sad, from the "Majar So" newspaper house, which publishes and prints the only newspaper in the Hungarian language in Serbia. This year we are recording 77 years of continuous publication of the list "Majar So" which is one of the pillar institutions for the preservation of the identity of the language and culture of the duchy Hungarians. In addition to the newsroom, the printing press "Forum" which was founded in 1957 is also a significant sector of our media house. In addition to its own editions of books, Hungary So's home list, children's and youth's papers, Forum presses and most minority and local newspapers issued in Vojvodina, as well as the daily list. We are also very proud of the fact that for nearly 40 years we have been making millions of circulations of postage stamps for "Post of Serbia". The problem we've been facing lately is providing expert personnel in the field of printing. As is known, the dual education model in which high school students adopt practical and applicable skills in the real working environment is regulated by the Dual Education Act. Based on previous experience through collaboration with the Technical School "Mileva Marić Einstein" from Novi Sad, which in many educational profiles educates both printing and graphic experts technicians, as well as on the basis of honest and open conversations with opinion makers, we are that through amendments and additions to the Law on dual education the situation can be improved. On this occasion, we ask the Ministry to provide us with information on whether four years after the application of the law he is considering supplementing and amending him? According to our knowledge, there is an initiative of professional schools to develop an identical plan and programme of teaching and learning for an educational profile that can be trained according to the classical school system and by a system of learning through company work. This solution would allow students to find a company with which to make a contract to study in a dual system while companies would be able to choose for themselves a number of students who would be trained in the system. When a contract is concluded, the possibility of termination should be left without consequences for any party unless one of the parties is satisfied with mutual co-operation. Students who don't have a contract with companies would be educated by a classic system. In this way, the economy would get an appropriate fit that was trained in their companies, and all students would have the same chance of schooling, of making the choice for contracts with companies, and of making it easier for themselves to work. Furthermore, does the ministry consider a reasonable increase in enrolment thresholds for the fourth grade of vocational schools at a minimum of 55 points? Of course, all with the aim of increasing competition among students and motivations to achieve better learning results, in order to conclude a contract with companies and pave the way for employment. In the end, is it possible to simplify the procedure for obtaining a license for instructors and enable them to train for licenses and issue licenses to company instructors to conduct a school that concludes a dual education contract with the company? We in the SVM parliamentary group believe that raised issues can help to achieve as many better solutions as possible in the interests of students, schools, businesses and societies in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5238	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5239	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Ramadan on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group on behalf of our citizens of the Muslim religion. Otherwise, today is one of the most important days for Serbia, I would say. The Security Council, or the whole world today is defended by Kosovo and Metohija, one of Serbia's most important national and state interests, is sovereignty and territorial integrity. On the occasion of a six-month report on the work of the UN mission at KIM in front of the SB, Foreign Minister Selakovic, who continues this extremely important diplomatic activity in defending our national and state interests, will speak today, as Mr Ivica Dacic, then Foreign Minister of Serbia's National Assembly, has worked very successfully in the past six months. Unfortunately, at the same time, daily provocations of a new team from Pristina continue here, so we worry about what might be their next step, as they show they are absolutely ready for anything. This is confirmed by their activity these days involving some other representatives of the provisional institutions, as well as Albanians in southern Serbia. At first, Aljbin Kurti, in the eyes of the KIM election, announced that he would introduce reciprocal measures for Serbia, and now announce reciprocal measures against all other countries that do not want to recognise Kosovo's sovereignty. We assume that Kurti is trying to blackmail not only states that have not recognised so-called. Kosovo, because it is not under international law, but the EU itself. Further these days, the director of the Kosovo Mitrovica inspection, a member of the Albin Kurti Self-Determination, also went into threats. He said KIM would unite with Albania, if necessary with rifles, as if he were wondering about it. This kind of war talk is certainly not the way to resolve the question of KIM about which Serbia has an extremely correct relationship with European intermediaries and the whole dialogue, but unfortunately, Albin Kurti and his associates are probably deliberately and consciously pushing the dialogue into a stalemate. That is why we are particularly concerned about Europe's silence on such statements, threats and a blockade of dialogue, for which the EU has taken full responsibility. It is clear to us that Albanian leaders at KiM do not want dialogue either, they do not want a solution that can be mutually acceptable, on the contrary, their behaviour, their performances, their statements, the speeches are absolutely diametrically opposite. They openly and with the support of some officials show clear territorial claims, including the desire to attach part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia to another state. Unfortunately, it is also clear that Serbia is not the only target of the Albanian interests, their conquering claims threaten the stability of the entire region, and Europe is unfortunately still not being declared. The addition of these statements by Albanian leaders from KIM are also the latest provocations in southern Serbia, where Albanians plan to build a memorial complex in Veliko Trnovac, one of the leaders of the UCK and leaders of the so-called. The Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje Ridhan Qazimi, called Captain Lashia. They forget that the Bujanovac municipality must respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of its citizens' nationality. In the state of Serbia, there is a law that accurately regulates who and under what conditions can be built memorial monuments. This certainly cannot be possible for those involved in terrorist actions. The peak of hypocrisy is attacks and threats directed to the monastery of High Decani, Savi Janjic. I am not going to ask the first question I was going to ask today, which concerns relations with the EU right now, because today the president of Serbia will talk to Sam Fabrizio, in fact, has already spoken to the ambassador and head of the EU Delegation in the Republic of Serbia, who not so long ago said that the KIM dialogue is a priority for the EU and we are fully convinced, as a parliamentary club, that as always, the president of Serbia will come out with clear views when it comes to defending our national and state interests, but I want to make a conclusion that we believe that these claims by Albanian leaders with KIM are being threatened, blackmailed and thus completely undermined and demeaning the role of the EU as mediators in the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. The question, second, I would like to ask is for the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and it is precisely about the illegal attempt to build a memorial centre, one of the leaders of the UCC, which has been declared on the international level for 90 more years as a terrorist organisation. Has any request been made by the municipality of Bujanovac or the Mesna Community of Velika Trnovac for the approval of the building of the memorial complex, and in accordance with the current Law on War Memorial adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5240	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? I don't have any more logs on the list. Since Nebojsa Bakarec is authorised on behalf of the parliamentary group, did you sign up or not? (No) Miodrag Lint reported, but he was not authorized on behalf of the parliamentary group. Since no more than the president, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Ana Karadzic. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to supplement the agenda and the proposal to merge the debate. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 March 2021. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, wants a word. You have three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5241	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Dacic, last Thursday when I first submitted a proposal to supplement the agenda with amendments to the Refugee Law, said we should consult with the relevant ministries. I had dozens of conversations in previous years, a consultation with the competent ministries, especially with the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, and with the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and with the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, and with the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. Unfortunately, there was no success in these consultations and talks with the goal of finally resolving the key issue of integration, it is the issue of housing of expelled Serbs from Croatia and the Federation of BiH. That is why I sent three letters to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic in previous months, with a desire to start a dialogue and find a comprehensive and lasting solution to the housing issue and all other problems of the exiled Serbs. I sent my first letter on November 17th last year, the second letter on December 28th last year and the third letter on February 1st of this year. It is a desire that the prime minister finally finds time and accepts me and my delegation to sit down, speak with desire, repeat, to continue the regional housing programme and address key problems of the expelled Serbs in the integration process. I've submitted the draft law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act for the second time today, and I'm looking for five things. First, the government takes responsibility and resolves the housing issue and all other problems of expelled Serbs in the integration process. Secondly, it allows for the resolution of a stable issue over a thousand exile families that did not have formally refugee status, but have been expelled from the territory of Croatia and the Federation of BiH. The third is to allow the right to buy out several categories of exile families that have not had this right so far, it is 530 families so-called. ‘Peace of the programme’. It's a program of permanent integration of the Italian government. The 530 families of which are 430 exiles from Croatia and the Federation of BiH. For 12 years, they've been fighting with me to get ransom rights under favourable conditions. The second category is 49 exile families of Diposa from Belgrade. The third category is hundreds of exile families who received apartments through the project "Social residence and social housing in protected conditions". So, I want to say once again that after last Thursday, I heard from a large number of expelled Serbs who are bitter, unhappy about not continuing the regional housing programme. I would like to take this opportunity and call on the MPs to support my initiative to complete my agenda by supplementing my Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act and finally to resolve the housing issue of all expelled Serbs and all other problems in the integration process in a fair and comprehensive way. It's about the biggest victims of wars in the area of the former Yugoslavia. It is important that most of the funds came from the EU and other international donors. The state should only show the political will to continue the programme, exploit the funds of EU international organisations and finally resolve the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5242	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 181, for – three, did not vote – 178. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. People's MP Bojan Torbica, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. Does MP Bojan Bagica want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5243	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members of the People, I again appeal to you to support the inclusion in the agenda of today's session of the Committee on the Education of the Commission for the Investigation and Determination of the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, and the reason for this is indeed a great deal. During the 20th century, the Serbian people fought for freedom and fought six wars to defend their freedom and sovereignty. Neither of these six times was the Serb soldier an aggressor nor tried to win a pedal of other people's territory, but each time he defended his country, his house and his hearth. Never has the Serbian state, nor the Serbian people, been on the wrong side in both the 20th century and earlier in its history, unlike many other large states and peoples. Always, but always, and in 1912, and 1913, and 1914, and 1941, and 1991, and in 1999, the Serbian state and people were on the side of justice, truth and freedom. The 22nd March was completed 22 years since the start of the criminal NATO aggression, and a week and 80 years ago since the bombing of Belgrade by Nazi Germany in 1941, in three days, it will be 77 years from the Allied bombing of Belgrade and Serbia in 1944, and in a few months and 107 years from the bombing of Belgrade in World War I. As we can see, they bombed in the past Belgrade and Serbia and the occupations and allies, killed the Serbian people both and each other, and we gave everyone a friendly hand, forgave them crimes, but unfortunately, and they were free to say – to our shame, they often forgot their victims. We gave our hand to those who bombed and killed us, knowing often that they didn't deserve it, knowing that they didn't even regret their crimes and actions, knowing that they didn't learn from their mistakes. We know, we're all aware, that this given hand has always been a sign of our moral and human size, but that hand given in the future doesn't mean we have to forget our innocent victims. It shouldn't mean that we have to let them forget, erase them, as if they never existed, because we have to be aware that nations who don't respect their past and their victims don't deserve a better future. So I ask you no longer to repeat the mistakes we've made in the past, when we've forgotten and for the sake of higher interests we've hidden our victims, each time again paying them more expensively, with even more shed blood and lost lives. I ask you once again to support the inclusion in today's session of the Committee on the Education of the Investigation Commission and the determination of the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, in order to repay those who have been wrongfully left to forget for 22 years because of our negligence, even though for the freedom in which we live today have sacrificed their lives, the most valuable they had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5244	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 182, for – 24, did not vote 158. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 92(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to carry out: 1st Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev and the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judicial office and 2nd Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the International Parliamentary Institution, the Proposal for a Decision amending the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, which was submitted by the parliamentary group ‘Alexandar Vucic – For our children’. Does Mr. Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 186, for – 171, did not vote 15. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for supplementing the agenda and the proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 188, for – 177, did not vote 11. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. Dn n e d d: Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederevo, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, Proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected to a judicial office, which was submitted by the High Council of the Court, Proposal for a Decision amending the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, which was tabled by the President of the National Assembly and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, President of the National Assembly of our Children. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that he has been invited to attend the session of Aleksandar Pantic, an election member of the High Council of Judges. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'd just like to give you one piece of information on the work plan for this week. As Mr Martinovic suggested, we will today consider the first two points of the agenda, and tomorrow the other three points of the agenda and tomorrow will be the vote after the debate is over. A new session with a set of energy laws was scheduled on Thursday, which is now planned, due to amendments submitted to the laws, which will be continued and completed next Tuesday. According to Articles 192, paragraph 3, 201 paragraphs 2 and 202, and in accordance with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on the motion for a decision to suspend the role of the public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev and a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected for the judge's office. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5245	Dear President, honourable People's MPs, the High Council of the judiciary announced in the March 6th "Official Messenger" and since 16th of September the choice of judges for the General Court in Kralje, Leskovac, Aleksinac, Somboro, Novi Pazar, Užica and Požarevac. After the election was announced, the Commission of the High Council of the judiciary carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges and the Regulation on the programme and the method of passing the examinations assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. The Commission of the High Council of the Judiciary has conducted an exam for first-time judges who have not received an evaluation from the exams, then after the examination, a conversation with all candidates has been conducted and complete material has been delivered by the Commission to the High Council of the Judiciary. The High Council of the Judiciary has obtained information and an opinion on the professional competence and dignity of candidates from the authorities and organisations in which the applicant worked in legal matter, and for the judicial assistants an opinion of the general session of all judges of the court from which the candidate comes and directly to the High Court. So, in addition to that opinion, the judge's assistants were given an assessment of their work. Following the procedure, the High Council of the judiciary set up a motion for a decision to elect judges at a session held on 15 March 2021 and proposed a selection of 37 candidates for courts on the agenda today. The biographies of all the candidates are in your materials, so I won't burden you again to talk about candidate biographies. What I could only say for all the candidates proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary is that all these candidates received a five-grader in the exam and that the candidates who come from the order of the judicial assistants have a rating to stand out in particular. Also, all proposed candidates have a positive opinion of the authorities and organisations from which they come. The High Council of the Court has indeed proposed professional, qualified and worthy candidates for the performance of the judiciary, so I would suggest that you support the proposal of the High Council of Justice in the voting day and vote in favour of the proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5246	Thank you. Does the reporter of the board of directors want a word? (Yes) The word is George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5247	Thank you, President Dacic. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, there are two decisions before us today, one concerning the termination of the prosecutor's office and one concerning the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, and I am sure that in the day to vote, we will support this decision by a large majority of MPs. We just had here at the ceremony taking the solemn oath of Mrs. Vasovic, president of the Supreme Cassation Court. In front of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and on my personal behalf, I congratulate her on that choice. What I must mention is that it is simply amazing that today in Serbia some give themselves the right to insult Judge Vasovic in such a best way. We had seven days behind us a campaign of lies, slanders, acts of brutal untruths about Judge Jasmina Vasovic himself. In my opinion, this is an eclectic example of a blow to the independence of the judiciary. When some people honor us here today by the very act that we're talking about judges in the People's Assembly's prey, they say that it's a violation of justice's independence is indeed an incredible accusation. When someone tells us that by doing what we are doing, the Constitution has entrusted powers, so we are doing the Constitution entrusted work here in the National Assembly, we are choosing judges, someone today honors us that what I say once again is allowed to do, is a violation of the independence of the judiciary, and it is not a blow to the judiciary when you in the tycoon votes attack Judge Vasovic, when you are making so much of the truth that it is absolutely simply becoming amazing that our political competition allows itself and gives the right to strike at the highest judicial instance, to strike against representatives of the people of the Republic of Serbia. So, the National Assembly is an expression of the people's will and that they didn't participate in the elections, that they're not sitting here today in these benches is the fact that they don't have the support of Serbian citizens today, but I say once again, it's not enough for them to give themselves the right to insult all the people who are doing their jobs in this country. Indeed, that something fat is wrong with our political competition is clear to everyone. We say, once again, to remind them by this system of division of power that was established 200 years ago, it was not established by Alexander Vukic, SNS or any of the MPs. The power is divided into legislative, executive and judicial. If none of these branches of government were more powerful than the other two, the very principle of control of government and parliament as the most legislative body has the Constitution of entrusted powers to control the judicial authority, so that it simply does not break away from the people. Judges make judgments on behalf of the people and the people, through the National Assembly, control the work of the same judges. That is, therefore, the principle that works in all Western democracies, like Serbia today, and it absolutely does not endanger the independence of the judiciary in any way. We have to mention that it's an incredible thing and it's just insane that today the people who made that criminal reform of the judiciary in 2009, when they fired a thousand judges overnight, a thousand prosecutors, that today they honor us both in parliament, just by talking about human rights solutions in the judiciary, we violate the independence of the judiciary. That, I say again, is so hypocritical, that it absolutely has no basis in the truth. And not only are they not ashamed of what they've done, which was one amazing case all over Europe, that the whole of Europe was disgusted by the way we dealt with the judges and, I say again, from the position of the executive government. So they fired thousands of people overnight and left them on the street. What they did, they proved to have passed the election, was punished by the people for their insubordination. It is amazing that today these same people are doing the same things they've done in the past and are announcing that they will continue to deal with everyone who doesn't think like them, so they place the thesis of rematchism as some legitimate thesis that they place on the people in the next election. What we have in Serbia today is the fact that our political competition no longer chooses funds in dealing with political inexperiences. I must say once again, here, you see, on Sunday, what to say in gloves, on a tycoon show on tycoon television, you had Judge Majic next to Marinika Tepic, who hit Jasmina Vasovic in the most brutal way on Sunday, and you said that the sin he knows of President Aleksandar Vukic was not worthy of performing such a high function. And not only did they hit Jasmina Vasovic, they also told Dragomir Milojevic, they hit on all those judges who are doing their job with honor and integrity today. Let's remind ourselves what they said about Zagorka Dolovac. Ask Marinika Tepic Judge Majic – Do you know Zagorka Dolovac, where this woman is, what is happening to this woman, why is she acting like a suspect, is she alive, when she will press charges against progressive affairs? Imagine the pressure on the judiciary, the pressure on the judiciary today on the same people who let judges, prosecutors, do it without any shame, and at the same time, they accuse us of violating the independence of the judiciary by means of the Constitution. They want to silence parliament, silence the MPs. Judge Majic does not hesitate to visit on various tycoon televisions once a week, to give an interview for some tycoon newspapers every week, to publish his interviews with one day in "Today" and all this is not a violation of Article 152. The Constitution. You know that Article 152. Serbia's constitution says the judge has no right to give some political assessments. They try to keep us quiet all the time, crash into this parliament, say we shouldn't be telling the truth, that we shouldn't be saying that this is the man who freed the gjilan group, hundreds of Shiparian terrorists let loose, that we shouldn't talk about his judgments, that MPs should not at all have the right to tell the truth who it is today who presents ourselves to us as a moral purgatory, who today is who it is... Mr. Dabic, time is up. ) No one will silence the MPs of the National Assembly, we will speak the truth here and in every other place about these people who today are trying to play moral cleaners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5248	Thank you. It is now up to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, Dr Muamer Zukorlic. Before you start speaking, I would like to congratulate you and all the believers of the Islamic religion of Ramadan on spending the month of Ramadan in peace and happiness and harmony with all other citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5249	Dear Chairman, thank you for this card, as I thank all my fellow Members and colleagues who congratulated me from this morning on the appearance of the month of Ramadan, the 30-day fast, very important for all Muslims, in whom during the day, from dawn to sunset, we fully deny food, drinks and all other physical pleasures, which is the intensity of trying to improve, perfecte, sharpen our own humanity, which is actually the key to good relations between people. All these congratulations actually show that we are getting closer to the group steps, and here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but even in the country itself, we are getting closer and closer, and this is extremely important for our future relations because the most common reasons for a number of misunderstandings and conflicts are that most often they are unknown between us. Knowledge between people, between communities, actually brings us closer together, enables us to have the right picture of ourselves, among us, and in another way, through that real picture enables us to be safe and stable in what we are. So I share joy with you together because we have an ambience and will on many sides, on all sides, that in the future we are building a country, a country, to build a joint house as we all will be well in it, how we will feel secure in it, how it will make us all warm, and the diversity of ethnic, cultural, religious, not only are they rich but they represent the true energy of mutual dynamics of the exchange of cultures, the entrenched culture. In that spirit, I feel very wonderful that I can participate here and in the work of the congregation today. I would love it if the themes were all as sticky as these affirmative, intercultural, international, which can always be talked about well, but I believe there's no such thing as a difficult subject when there's good will. What makes me happy, is, for the first time, I've managed this way to speak with this much space, to preserve subjectivity. Individuality of the personal, subjectivity of the party, our MPs, but also having full freedom of expression, I think, but we offer one, I hope, a quality culture of communication in which we will find harmony between this authenticity, between this subjectivity of freedom of opinion, whether it is a positive or negative criticism, but we have shown that it is possible to have all of this in a good spirit, in a positive atmosphere, without looking to offend each other or in any way belittled. The values that I belong to, we require that for me, all the people, first of all, and that all the divisions that are natural, which, by God, are based on ethnic, cultural and other grounds, are actually something that we haven't personally wondered too much about, but that the only division that gives us a basis for graduation is actually a division of people and non-humans, i.e. a division of good and bad people. As long as we prefer and affirm such an evaluation, trust both our families and our narrows and our wider communities and the whole society, but also the whole state, with the whole society will always be well and always will be better. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are again on the subject of the judiciary and the prosecution. These are topics that can't be fluttery, these are topics that can't be talked about too romantically, or aesthetically, there can't be too much, so maybe not a little bit of poetry in their performance, because those categories themselves, however human in their purpose, in their role, also have an intensity of humanity, these are categories that need someone to limit, or someone to allow. They always come into conflict with the interests of people, especially those of those interests that have a desire or intention to achieve their interest beyond the limits of the law. Therefore, regardless of what is easy or sweet, we must face them as they are. True, what it is to say slowly, positively and brightly in this matter is new judges, young judges, people who are given a new chance. I think it's the most beautiful part of the story, which is what you can talk about the cutest, because actually when serious groups of young people, who are given the chance to, as judge assistants, or as judges who get engaged for the first time, actually look forward to it. It means that we have the living, that we have the energy, that we have the awareness that life is going so fast that generations have to be restored. So I want to welcome, therefore, the orientation of the competent judicial authorities, to open up even more, as they are opening up to young generations, that in fact, here's already this competent judicial academy is giving its results, which has clearly proved to be a very good experiment in our society, as it has shown in other developed countries, should actually continue that way. Certainly what I notice, given that we also have a group of proposed judges, who are first named from Novi Pazar, or from the area I come from, I am pleased that this group of solid numbers, as I am glad that both ethnicities are represented in the group. So, both Bosniaks and Serbs are represented, the truth in this proposal is half as flat. I'm not one to put people at the top of the list, or at all ethnicity, so when it comes to qualified judges and similar positions, we have to bear in mind ethnic and professional qualities. So that's what's outright. After that, however, it is not a irrelevant ethnicity, given that it is a multiethnic environment, i.e. the environment in which both Bosniaks and Serbs live, I think it is very important to take care of the balance of ethnicity, I say again, not at the expense of ethnic and professional quality, but it is of paramount importance. In particular, in order to correct certain shortcomings, from the past, we will still have to strengthen the intensity of schooling of Bosniaks, whom, thank God, among the candidates, as a graduate of law schools, there is a lot, but the Judicial Academy would also have to open a faster tape, if I can say so, for Bosniaks, not only in Sandzak, but also for Bosniaks who come from other cities in the Sandzak area, actually because we have a accumulated negative, to say selection at the expense of Bosniaks, over the past decades. So, let's say now, somewhere in the New Market, about and if I'm not one of those who likes to add up, or count the ethnicity of judges or any other public functions, but that's something that's a factography and you can't avoid and what we, as MPs, are positively getting, either as information, either as suggestions, or as certain complaints or complaints. So in Novi Pazar, there is an ethnic structure of opportunity, about 30% of Serbian lives and about 70% of Bosniak lives, with a fence that the previous census was partially boycotted, so we have no precise data. So, while the structure of public office in the judiciary and the prosecution, as well as the police, is almost reversed. So it's not 70% of Bosniaks, it's the other way around, almost 70% are members of Serbian nationality. I'm saying, I'm not one of those who's bothered by it, as a phenomenon, I'm not one to build people's grades on it, but since we have many deposits, heritage from the past, since we have various escalations of relationships, which, unfortunately, have sometimes influenced trust, or caused mistrust, not to the soul of the relationship between the Serb and Bosniak people, or the Serb and Bosniak communities, in this area, I have to underline it, but most often in the relation of the people and the system, i.e. the people and the state, which is certainly in the country of the majority Serb, which is uncontested. That's why it's very important for us to have sensitivity and one of the political priorities, from the political objectives of the CAP, is to get a naturally balanced structure, at all levels, both in the judiciary and in other structures, because we're actually going to show that it doesn't exist, that we say out of negligent some kind of discrimination, let alone that it's intentional. So it is extremely important to show a simple trust, a state to gain trust from the people, it must also offer that trust to that people, because trust is never built, neither achieved nor maintained, nor unilaterally. So you can't impose trust. Trust is built, it is built, as you shake hands, you cannot shake hands with one hand, unilaterally, you can only shake hands with two hands, or on two sides that want to shake hands. The role of the Justice and Reconciliation Party throughout our programme, through our overall operation at the National Assembly level, as well as other structures, including the various agreements we have reached here in Belgrade, we are actually showing this. Our ambition is, in fact, something new in politics, the relations between the Bosniak and Serbian people in the policy of relations between the Sandzak and Belgrade regions, as regards the relationship between the Bosniak people and the state of Serbia. I believe that these things are of strategic importance and that is why we do our utmost to actually be a constructive factor in this regard, as I have pointed out before, we are unfortunately in these difficult times of mistrust and various political and war events, in the wider region, which certainly reflected on us, here, and especially in Sandzak. So, mostly they were imposed policies or – or. Politics have been imposed, if something is received by Bosniaks, it means it will be at the expense of Serbs and vice versa. If something is given to Serbs, it must mean that it is at the expense of Bosniaks. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't have to be that way. The space of Sandzak and the state of Serbia, and this Balkans are so comfortable, unfortunately now they become more comfortable than we wanted, as much space is emptyed by various emigrations and negative migration and demographic movements and processes. But it's so comfortable, we don't have any reason for any exclusivity. We have no reason to have any exclusion. We have no reason to see that one community or some citizens, members of one ethnic community, has to be at the expense of others. On the contrary, the policy of the future, our policy, the policy we responsibly claim to be good for all of us is politics and so on. Therefore, the policy of inclusiveness, the policy of including everyone, the policy of sharing responsibility, the policy of sharing trust and exchange of trust. So that's what our orientation is. I think we can work on that a lot. Of course, in addition to this rhetorical category, it is also important to strengthen intensity. I say, it happens, therefore, that what is true is that we have growing employment of Bosniaks, but since we have had a particularly negative picture at the expense of Bosniaks, it is necessary to intensify the engagement of Bosniaks, I am now talking about the judiciary and the prosecution, but this applies to both the police and almost all other public institutions and organisations in which decisions are made, here in Belgrade, means, which represent some kind of branch, central, state, or republican bodies. So that's what we insist on, that's what we're working on and that's what you really, ladies and gentlemen, members of all political organisations and parliamentary clubs should support. Believe me, establishing trust in Sandzak, building full trust, reconciliation and real relations that have deep roots in inter-communication cultural relations, but need official verification, it is necessary that the same police in Novi Pazar, Prijepolje, Priboj, Novi Varosha, Tutin, Sjesnica and the prosecution, as well as the judiciary in all these cities and municipalities that equally when the Bosniak enters these institutions and when a Serb enters to not experience them - this is yours, this is not mine. This is ours, and you're a patient category here. I'm not saying that this is now something that is preferred from the official levels, that I believe that I would probably speak differently, but there are heritage and deposits, in the 1990s and before the 1990s, what we should do is the same way that we are now getting to know each other through Ramadan, and Ramadan, we simply share in the joy of sharing both congratulations and respect, and we can also, with little effort and with little correctness, experience that all these institutions of people do not experience as a factor of danger, because what happened in the 1990s, when it comes to people in the Sandzak area, especially Bosniaks, was extremely terrible. Do you know how much effort and time it takes now that this Bosniak, not only in the 1990s, but also before, for various reasons and circumstances, that this Bosniak in a cop doesn't see an opponent. Now, I'm not going to say that everything in this ethno-cultural difference, and even in these certain deposits of past heritage, one significant part of the trust is about that topic that I keep talking about, because if citizens know that one cop, judge or prosecutor is much closer to criminals than citizens, then it's a more dangerous disease than all these ethnic and cultural differences. This is still complicated by our trust now, because for 100 years we have the Sandzak space, the northern Sandzak is located in the Republic of Serbia, and the southern one is in Montenegro, so it's 100 years, to say formal integration, but the truth is that we still don't have real integration. I think that should be a concern for all of us. That this should not only be the concern of the People's Messenger, Zukorlic or the People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party or other Bosniak People's MPs. The overall political and cultural integration is the interest of all. So, non-integrated, the full non-integratedness of one space or one community in the entire state, means that one part of the organism does not circulate biologically with the entire part of the organism, and it is always a potential source of some kind of hotspot that can endanger the health of the entire organism. In this regard, by supporting the recruitment and recruitment of new judges, new police officers, new prosecutors, and in general, even when I am here, you know, alone here, I am a partner of the ruling majority, we do not have a representative in the government, but what we want and when we ask that someone engages to, in fact, build that trust, so that young people from Sandzak realize that this Belgrade can be theirs, that they can work in those ministries and that these barriers of mistrust, possibly some reserves, are actually slowly eliminated.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5250	I thank the Vice President of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5251	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Pantic, colleagues and colleagues, for starters, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Rasim Ljajic, I would like to congratulate all the believers of Islamic religion on this great holiday, that is, the beginning of the holy month, Ramadan. Today, on the agenda, we have two motions for a decision. I will focus on the motion for a decision to discuss the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. In accordance with the Law on Judges regarding the decision on the number of judges in the courts, the High Council of the judiciary submitted a proposal to the National Assembly, decisions to elect judges, basic courts in the Kingdom, Leskovec, Aleksinc, Somboro, Novi Pazar, Užica and Požarevec, who for the first time were elected to the judicial office and totaled 37. If this debate is going on during which she started, I expect that their election will be confirmed in the next day or two. In the light of the proposal for a decision, the High Council of the judiciary has taxed all the proceedings it has carried out in accordance with the Law on Judges. I don't think there should be anything controversial in that sense, or there's no interference with them being elected. In principle, to begin with the proposal for a decision on the choice of judges, we show a clear intention but also the will to increase the number of judges in all courts, above all fundamentally, in the light of the work which basic courts at the level of the whole country have, and above all, to ensure the even distribution of cases to judges in such a way as to facilitate work and ultimately respect one of the basic legal principles, which is the principle of the trial within a reasonable period, which, within a great time, depends on the number of judges, i.e. human resources, and on the even distribution of the cases under which these judges will act. As in one of my previous statements and stated, between 2012 and 2020, the judiciary was deficiting for about 400 judges a year, and in that sense it was indeed a major problem when it came to the functioning of the courts itself. We see that this trend decreases, given that from session to session, we simply have proposals to select new judges, or those chosen for the first time in this function. As far as the candidate is concerned, we've been given a biographies of all 37 future judges of the basic courts in today's session. I'll start with the city of the Kings, because that's how we got the material. The High Judicial Council has proposed the selection of even eight judges for the King’s General Court. In this court, 27 judges are currently serving as judges at this time, which means that the inflow of the new eight judges represents a factual third of the total number they now have, and it will indeed make it very much easier to operate the basic courts in the King. This, in particular, takes into account the fact that each judge on average in the King handles over 60 cases, each of which solves close to 80 cases a year, and that is indeed a large number. Among the candidates, when we talk about the basic court in the King, the largest number of them comes from a system where he has already performed a judicial function, except for one, I have found in the biography, it is a matter of Daniela Gunjic, who as a lawyer who has dealt with serious issues of criminal matter, working matter, business, property-law, indeed shows a broad diapasm of areas which she has dealt with as a lawyer, and in this way I think she can make a big enough contribution to the functioning of the General Court in the King's place of some of her expected course. Also, from 2010 to 2018, they served as members of the Management Board of the Bar Association and participated in the Working Group on Implementation and National Justice Strategy of the Ministry of Justice as a representative of the Justice Chamber. She also completed her mediation training, and perhaps it was this broad range of areas she dealt with and ran for one of these places we're talking about today. As far as the town of Leskovec is concerned, there are eight candidates, or judges. There are 37 judges currently in this court. So today we choose a quarter of their total number and I have to say that the basic court in Leskovac really has a lot of burden if we look at the number of cases per judge. When I say so, I mean that every judge in the basic court in Leskovac has an average of between 300 and 400 cases per year, which means that they would have to deal with these cases for a full of 19 months, not taking any new subject in order to be timely, or within a time period that has been determined and completed, which is quite impossible and in practice inconclusive. I think this help in the number of judges is going to be huge. Speaking of the basic court in Leskovac, I think that, despite the fact that a large number of judges have a large number of cases they are dealing with, perhaps satisfaction for their work just in 2017, when there is a Supreme Cassation Court awarded the award for the best handling court in terms of the largest number of cases solved per year and it is probably one good motivation for all those working in this court. The basic court in Leskovac also participated in the "Open Door of Justice" project in so-called "The Court of Justice". Thematically open door on why trials last long. Otherwise, this "Open Door of Justice" project aims to strengthen citizens' confidence in judicial institutions by improving communication between citizens, judges and courts themselves. As with other courts in the country, the problem of basic courts in Leskovac is also a long-term trial and a messy and inadequate delivery of mail calls to parties etc. It is not a rare case for citizens to complain about delaying proceedings. Let's say, according to the new law and enforcement and security, all the cases that require a claim have been passed to public enforcement officers, which should dissipate the courts to a large extent to speed up the proceedings. I think this new law has also taken care of debtors, and most of all with regard to the problems that arise when the debtor refuses to accept a solution to the execution. It may be a consequence of such an attitude by a debtor that Serbia simply has a culture of avoidance of handouts, perhaps from some practice that existed before, and for this very reason it is important to educate citizens to accept mail, i.e. refusing mail or writing, could lead to the loss of their right to be guaranteed by law. In particular, this means, for example, that if the debtor is unable to state whether or not the data on the part that relates to him are accurate, it may occur that the debtor is collected by several years and that the amount appears to be higher than it is otherwise, that it contains part of the debt that has become obsolete, because there is no record or mechanism to be taken into account in terms of the obsolescence of a particular debt. The reason for the postponement of the trial can also be sought in the transition to the prosecutor's investigation, as the process was not followed by adequate personnel and technical equipment by the prosecution. Prosecutors have doubled their jobs, and two prosecutors share at the same time a writer and at the same time they have to coordinate the days in which they act, all contributing to a comprehensive picture of delaying proceedings even where there is no real justification for such a thing. As for the Court of First Instance in Aleksinc and Sombor, if the motion for a decision is supported, and I hope so, they will get a new three, or four judges of the basic court. Among them, I singled out Dejan Petkovic, the future candidate, as well as Marija Pesic as the judicial assistants who dealt with affairs both in the criminal court and in the prosecutor's office and engaged in economic law. Marija Pesic dealt with family law, domestic violence, child protection. So we see that this is about candidates who essentially have one comprehensive knowledge from different areas and that each of them will make this contribution to the courts in which they are elected. Finally, from the Annual report on the work of all judges, or courts for 2020, we see that the largest number of cases I'm solving in basic courts right now. That is logical and the justification of this decision is greater. Basic courts across the country received close to a million new cases during 2020, and the conclusion of the report on the work of all courts in the Republic of Serbia for 2020 shows the exceptional results of the basic courts during the pandemic, when over two million cases were resolved, and that is to say for commendation, if we consider that the old cases were not suffered, that they were handled as much as possible and that the dynamics of the reception of new cases and their resolutions were monitored, so that the number was essentially doubled in relation to the number of cases which the basic courts received during one year. When you add to this the fact that in terms of years of banning employment we also have a reduced number in courts, which has further affected the increase in the volume of jobs, then an unfavourable age structure which is now being improved by the selection of new, younger judges, then there is indeed enough space to continue such a good continuity of the common election, that is, within the limits of which it is necessary and within the limits of which the quality will be respected, rather than the quantity of what comes on the agenda of the Assembly's session. Furthermore, the opening of competitions for trainees and the introduction of a career advancement system, you have spoken of it several times, can indeed be one of the ways in which we will reach the appropriate level of justice in which he would truly meet the real needs of the society in which we are. Finally, the judges are expected to make their maximum effort in the coming period to, above all, reduce the number of pending cases in order to increase the urgency, in order to restore citizens' confidence in the judicial system in an effective and quality way. That is our common goal. The aim is to create an independent, impartial and effective judiciary, and above all, on the basis of respect for basic human rights and freedoms of all citizens, and to this extent will also contribute to the integrity of judges themselves, i.e. judges must have their own expertise, training, commitment, but also the way in which they will behave in court, but also outside the court, to show that judges deserve a deep respect by citizens, because that is the only way that they can regain confidence. From all ahead, we expect the judges to fulfill their role, i.e. what is expected and fulfilled, and that is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposal for this decision in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5252	I thank the authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia MP, Mr Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5253	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Ms. Kovac, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pantic, we have two decisions before us today – on the termination of the office of public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev and on the election of judges who are elected for the first time in the judicial office. It's about 37 candidates proposed by the High Judicial Council. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group in the voting day will certainly support the aforementioned decisions, as the Single Serbia advocates maximum strengthening of judicial independence, the independence of the prosecution, but on the other hand, I must say that the Single Serbia advocates strengthening the overall capacity of our judiciary, because it is known that the judiciary forms the first pillar of the rule of law. At the very beginning, in front of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, congratulations on the election of the Supreme Cassation Court president. We got members of the High Council of the judiciary out of order a while ago. With this decision on the election for the cassation court, we have completed the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. That's very important, and what we're talking about today, from the Order of the High Council of the Judiciary, we get judges who will eventually be elected to this high house. In the past ten years, Serbia has made major steps forward, as far as judicial reform is concerned, and all to the goal of the new organisation of courts that are to carry out the burden of reform. Today when we talk about judicial reform, I can't say that Serbia is a country that is economically safe, politically stable, health security and Serbia in many areas is going hugely forward and, let's say, at this time pandemic Kovida-19 our health system is recording excellent results, we have proved to be much more successful than many health systems that before this pandemic may have been much better rated than the health system in Serbia. When we talk about the health system, a delegation led by Dragan Markovic Palma, a delegation that makes up over 100 doctors, over 100 health workers, in Egypt, in the capital of the Red Sea region, in Hurgad, and when we talk about doctors, we say that they are our heroes, that they have saved many lives. In this delegation, which is made up of health workers, are people who are from the front line of defense against Kovida-19. On the other hand, when we talk about Serbia's successes, close to three million vaccines, close to a million and 200 revaccinated. Serbia, as far as economic growth is concerned, is the dominant. On the other hand, over 60% of the investments coming into the Western Balkans region are going to Serbia and no investor arriving in Serbia has given up. It speaks of how much trust they have in Serbia, below 10% unemployment, and these are just some of the indicators that say how far Serbia is moving along. On the other hand, every state, including ours, which claims to be democratic, and Serbia certainly is a democratic state, must have a good and efficient judicial system from which good indicators for other pillars of the rule of law originate. Serbia is certainly a country that pursues the principles of judicial independence and impartiality as a basis for a democratic and modern society that seeks the rule of law. On the other hand, there must be no abuse, because the only interest of this country must be equality for all citizens. A good judge, who has sworn an oath, must judge by justice and law, who is not subject to will, but does his job honestly and honestly. On the other hand, Mr. Pantic, I must say that we must never go back to a time when, in one day or two days, we lost or were fired near a thousand judges and prosecutors without a legal procedure, an explanation or a right to appeal. A great deal of damage has been done to society, and this has cost us, re-election, the citizens of Serbia cost 44m euros. On the other hand, we are talking about how important it is to shorten the length of court proceedings. This certainly affected certain court proceedings so that they could continue. Speaking of length of court proceedings, the Supreme Cassation Court oversees the implementation of the National Programme for the reduction of number of cases, and this certainly has an impact on the efficiency of courts and the view of the number of old cases. The definition of old objects now implies a time of three years, if I'm not mistaken, and you'll agree with me if we say it's really absurd that certain objects last for decades. Mr. Pantic, imagine, let's say, when someone gets an inheritance, along with that inheritance gets an inherited trial, a really absurd situation. That's what I was talking about, but to point out the importance of investing in judicial infrastructure. It's very important that in one place we have all the courts, that we have the prosecutions, that it speaks to the speed of all court proceedings. I will remind you once again that a modern Court of Justice was built in Kragujevac. In the past decades, it seems to me, the most significant object, and that is to say that in one place we have all the judicial authorities, the prosecution and how much this goes in favour of the process itself being faster and the justice available to every citizen and certainly faster. I don't have to say, on the other hand, for the Kragujevac himself, for the whole region, how much such an object means in one city. In the end, I would like to say that JS, once again, advocates the maximum strengthening of the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the prosecution, because it all makes the rule of law. What I have to say here at the very end is that this does not mean that strengthening the prosecution, the judiciary means moving away from the people, but rather the opposite. It all means getting away from inappropriate influences. In the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support the aforementioned decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5254	I thank the MP, Mr Kosanic. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Tom Fila. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5255	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, we of the SPS are very interested in the judiciary. We've had a lot of bad experiences after Milosevic's fall with courts produced by DOS and we'd like it never to happen again. It is not only about the reform that the colleague was talking about in 2009, which was followed by Miki Rakic, who was President Tadic, who we came out of, damaged, and we still can't get out of it. What's key and what we all need to know, every choice for judges is a 30-year mistake. It takes him 30 years to retire, and every time we choose someone, we have to think about what's going to happen, whether we've been wrong for 30 years. It's the key to the story. Something I didn't know, Mr Pantic made it clear to me on the Justice Committee, and that was the question – do they have data on how many schools and what are the average grades? He told me they did, and that was enough for me. We need to know, if the European Commission blames us on the situation in the judiciary, the situation in the judiciary is not satisfactory for anyone and most important of all is that it is not satisfactory for us. Not to mention, my colleague Djukanovic talked about it a lot and, normally, I have no intention of repeating it, we are not at the mill. It's important that we start a process so that we know that these people will be worth it. The government has finally decided to make this change to the Constitution and that we are deciding on changes to the Constitution, and in terms of what is only controversial, what cannot be discussed, from the position of the SPS is that the first choice of judges must be in the Assembly, and the prosecution too. It's a position that the Socialists will not step down from, and I see that's the general position of this assembly. You can talk about anything else. Whether the High Council is going to be six four, five five, one way or another, it doesn't matter. I was looking at the Constitution of Slovenia by accident, I was wondering, they went the farthest. There again is the election in the Assembly of those who are not judges in the High Council of the Judiciary. Let's not forget that one prosecutor is leaving, and I'll be lawyerly mean, because when we're the culprits, as the prosecutor goes, we say, one less, but I know this fellow Lopushin, and I wish him quiet retirement days. If he decides to get a lawyer, he deserves it. So what's key to all of us is this reform. If we don't make this reform, we don't do it right, the tragic consequences are that. I think it's time, here's the Constitutional Rights Committee, and there's a meeting Friday, and we're getting ready to see how we're gonna do and what we're gonna do about it. I say if it's five or five, six or four, it doesn't matter, it's important to choose judges here, but to change the methodology again on the proposal of the High Council of Justice. We can't make up judges. I'll take the show and find the judge. It's got to be that way, but the way we decide or send us a month early, we check to see if they're and what they're like, because 30 years will cost us every mistake. That's the key thing I want to say. I don't think I'm using 20 minutes to tell others what to do. So reform is needed, it's not disputed. Do you need a referendum? My party president thinks he should. I'm not personally sure, but for two-thirds of all of us, we can change the Constitution without or with a referendum, however we please, it doesn't matter. The basic thing is, if we had a chance because that part of 2009, the wrong reforms, they still came to retirement, mostly, they're out there somewhere, and we're gonna get rid of that part. That's why you don't have to look back, back. Only crabs and a certain kind of people are looking back. We have to look ahead. It's important for us to move forward. There's real judges ahead. Do you know what a judge was before the war when someone showed up to be a judge? I was born in Bitola. My father was a judge and a lawyer. It was something to be envious of, a confession to be given. Is that how it is today? You have a situation where judges are dressed inappropriately, prosecutors with fishing gear, and I had it, come in with boots, catch fish on Neretva. It can't. With a lawyer it is easy, the president of the council has the authority to punish every lawyer and should punish him because they are not with a small salary and must be decently dressed and dressed, means, and a tie to have, rather than in espadrils and those Japanese women to come, as I saw in the Palace of Justice in Belgrade. It can't do that. In order for the judge to be well-dressed and the prosecutor, of course, must increase his salary. You know, I told you before some discussion when I was talking, God in heaven, court on earth. It's the most important court. You can't see the judge acting the way he wants to. He can't be drunk, he can't hang out with criminals, he can't be relaxed. He's 24 judges and a prosecutor. Drunk lawyers can do it all you want to see, but that doesn't matter, lawyering doesn't paint the judiciary. The judges are taking pictures of the judiciary and the prosecutors. I may be a little bored to say it again, but I don't know how else to get out of it, except for one serious reform. Are they through constitutional changes? I hope that will be enough, through rejuvenation, an increase in the salary of judges and working conditions. You know, I had a chance in my practice to be, I couldn't defend myself, but I was with a Greek lawyer in Athens, I was in Rome with some Alexander Devakov, a lawyer, you can stand by him and so I was in The Hague and Paris and everywhere. The judge wants you to come in and share the cabinet with someone, and he's just sending a typist? When you enter a judge in Rome, there's a judge in the third room. First the secretaries, then the interns, then the judges, and then us? It's not impossible to do. It's not that big a deal. It's not the highway. Please, we have to do this. So let each of us sit down to think when they come to the agenda of the change of the Constitution, let each of us sit down and think about what's more important than justice. Nothing. Eat you up, they'll destroy you. I watched the verdicts both in communism and later and now. We cannot resist the thought and the discussion that it is because he should not be the President of the Supreme Cassation Court because he knows Vukic. Well, I've known him for 30 years, so what? I knew all kinds of people and then? What's that insolence, after all? Say he's not a good judge, and he doesn't, but he knows this one. So what if you know. I guess you guys should know each other. I don't understand. That's why I'm talking to you. That's why I'm repeating this - we have to think this through. Let's leave the parties. It's not the Justice Party. We have to choose people we won't tolerate for 30 years but respect. We are now suffering what was in 2009. Whenever I asked them, well, they say, Miki Rakic was behind it because Miki Rakic died. If he were alive, he'd probably be someone else. I'm telling you and I repeat, the Socialist Party will vote in the voting day for all this with a greeting to the outgoing prosecutor Lopussini, but we won't vote, we won't want to go through the torture that DOS has made for us again, and we won't take it anymore. We're looking for an independent judiciary, gentlemen's justice. The prosecutor, the judge, when he walks down the street, people take off their hats for seeing him. It's the secret of justice's success. Without that look, we're all nicely and politely dressed, the judges' salaries are bigger than the MPs', but they're small. Work conditions are bad. All this has to be done. I don't know what's more urgent than this crown. To finish, not to spend 20 minutes because there's no need. A smart man and a fly is music. That's what I wanted to say. I want to welcome the entry of these seven judges and God help them, and good luck to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5256	I thank the authorised representative of the SPS Group. For our children, the National MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5257	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Mr Pantic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today on the agenda we have decisions concerning judicial functions and when we have decisions on the agenda concerning the appointment or resolution of judicial functions we in parliament are dealing with not only candidates but also some general topics, things to be changed, but certainly also the summation of the results achieved in the area of justice. It is also noted that the public is interested in these issues because our discussions always echo in public, of course with citizens who want there to be a stable judicial system of criticism in Serbia on our discussions, while in various media funded by tycoons, who call themselves opposition or part of the opposition, criticism is negative and always directed not only against the MPs but also against the need to strengthen our judicial system, then modernize it and bring it closer to the citizens, which is certainly one of the priorities in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, there are often those mentioned here, those who are in conflict of interest, who are both judges and members of the Association, members of boards of directors, NGOs, guests in political shows, those who, for the sake of their position, couples or influence, play on two tracks, of course, do not care whether they thereby violate the reputation of the judicial functions they perform or even question the decisions they make. The provisions of the Justice Act on these matters are clear. The judge must not be a member of the political party, nor act politically in any way, to deal with any public or private paid work, or to provide legal services or to provide legal advice with compensation. Other services, jobs and procedures contrary to the dignity and independence of the judge or damage to the reputation of the court are incompatible. It is also a question of impartiality in decision-making, because what if he is in a case in which he is a member of the same association, the party's power of attorney in the proceedings. It is also a question of independence, since none of us know whether the funding of judges through an NGO affects its decision-making in concrete cases. My colleague Veroljub Arsic reminded me, at one of the previous sessions he spoke about how such an expert treats the MPs and the National Assembly, so I will remind you of what Judge Majic said. He says of the National Assembly, I quote -- it's obviously become a cheap party, it turns out there's no code of conduct in the Assembly, etc. And why did he say that? In addition to being rude, I would also say insulting those who choose his colleagues because we have given ourselves the right to say our opinions, to say our opinions and how judges do their jobs, but to say our opinions and how they treat citizens and what they may be and what they should change. So, first of all, we gave our hands out of this place, to work together to fix the situation in our judicial system. On the other hand, I ask the question - is it similar to a judge of the Court of Appeal that instead of trying to work within the limits of his jurisdiction to correct the efficiency and economics of the proceedings, he insists that we are all closer to the collapse of the rule of law? Is it our fault or may we have broken the code, if as MPs we comment on independence and impartiality, to which judges are bound by law, to remind you. So, bound by law. And that one judge comment on how the MPs will vote or how we should vote for some draft laws. I'll remind you that Judge Majic was against the so-called. Tian's law incriminate the most serious crimes committed against children. If we look at what he has done to improve the situation in the judiciary with us, to put an emphasis on the existence of the rule of law, which is his contribution as judges to a higher court instance that examines the decisions of the basic courts, I will give you a concrete example of the contribution to the Serbian judiciary. This is a verdict acquitting the perpetrator of a criminal act of promise against a minor, a girl who was 13 years old, with the reason that full relations with children with members of Roma nationality were acceptable and how much damage could have been done or how much damage could have been caused by such a verdict because of the reasons justifying the execution of a serious crime from the aspect of acceptance in one national minority. Does this mean that the position of this national minority in Serbia where all citizens are equal and where we will always try to make all citizens equal, not only bad but also doomed to misapplication of the law or inequality? Does this mean that Serbia could bear the consequences and the financial nature if someone initiated proceedings before international institutions? In the end, would that mean that children are subject to special protection in our legal order? In 2016, judge Majic said - politics is managed by the Serbian judiciary, in 2021 says - political and judge ties are dangerous. How about we go back to the period when he made progress, see the relationship between judges and politics at the time? If we look at Judge Majic's biography, which is available to the public, so I am giving myself the right to comment on it, his career progress went from an intern in the Prosecutor's Office through the First Municipal Court in Belgrade to a promotion after the five-October revolution. In 2008, the call of a doctor of science gained a stronger impression, and to defend his dissertation was also attended by Snezana Malovic, a major reformer of the Serbian judiciary, as the minister of justice then called himself. In the famous cut of judges, which was in fact the aim of judicial reform, Judge Majic progressed and was directly elected to the Court of Appeal and that is nothing less than the Department of War Crimes. So it's a good example of policy and justice relations when someone who doesn't have a day's work experience in the district, or now the Supreme Court, someone who hasn't had any complaints, skips a lot of his colleagues, a lot of quality candidates who meet the conditions and goes to be the Court of Appeal's judge in Belgrade. In 2013, I will remind you, she was remembered for the verdict that rocked the public, when both the professional and the unprofessional public rebelled, and once again when the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were disappointed in the judiciary in which they already had their trust, it was decided that 11 members of the criminal Liberation Army from Gjilan were released. In 1999, they committed a crime of war against the civilian population, when 80 people were brutally killed and 260 people were captured. The charge involved torture, rape, physical injury, murder and property robbery. The atrocities are committed towards Serbs and other non-Albanian populations. All of these are the contributions of Judge Majic to our country's legal system, and you'll probably agree with me, better if they weren't there. As a great expert and a political judge, independent of the influence of politics, he deserved last week and the front page of the NIN and two sides in which, of course, he regrets the people, his colleagues, the judiciary, the dangerous ties again between judges and politics, although he does so as a representative of a political group that calls itself an opposition or part of the opposition in our country. It raises views which are political nature and comments which, as I would say, call into question his professionalism. When we talk about this professionalism, I sincerely hope that the candidates we choose to vote on will at least want to watch some session of the National Assembly where we talk very often about their independence and efficiency and all other features that should be the traits of judges who will exercise justice in our country. Unfortunately, we're still forced to endure DS fluids. It's these frames that think they're God-given judges, that they're always invited to express their desire for what function they'd like to perform. These are the personnel who think they are stronger than rights, justice and law and who think that as judges they have the right to use political influence to satisfy their own interests or the interest of the political party that has proposed them for judges or prosecutors. One thing we're sure of is that it takes a lot of time for the judiciary to return to full capacity on the right track, to recover from the call of reform and from the kind of personnel I've talked about today. The Serbian Progressive Party has taken responsibility for both the judicial system and so far we have shown that we are doing everything in our power to comply with the law first and in accordance with the law. In addition, we started working on infrastructure, repairing the conditions in which the holders of judicial functions used to be catastrophic. I will give an example, for example, of a Kragujevac who will receive a modern palace of justice at about 25,000 square squares where 11 judicial authorities will be placed with over 800 employees, but also an example of Nis, where in the near future, the first offence will be first, and then the Basic, Higher and Business Court will move to a complex in the "Philip Kljajic" barracks, which will be renovated and built up so that all judicial authorities will be in one place. Judges share justice, judge and establish a balance when a right is violated, resolve disputes and somewhat social relations disorders and play an important role in the functioning of a democratic society that exists today in Serbia. We're with the representatives of the judiciary on a joint mission. We must understand that and accept it, to ensure that the judiciary is independent, impartial and effective, above all in order for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be satisfied, equal to the law in the exercise of their rights. Judges, on the other hand, must be competent, dignified, professional, with highly developed moral traits and certain integrity, and they must worry about it themselves, but it is also our duty to worry about when we choose in the parliament judges who are first elected to the judicial office or when we choose the presidents of the courts. The reputation of every judge makes the reputation of our judiciary with us, but also in the international community and all of us care about it. I've already talked about the difference between the judiciary and the judiciary many times before and after the SNS took over. Today I want to mention some other areas. I want to end my address today with results, because that's what is behind President Alexander Vukic, behind the Serbian government and behind all of us who have been delegated by the SNS to do, to build Serbia and to serve citizens. Given the situation in which the world has been in place for the last year and a few days, including our country, I want to appeal to all citizens to be vaccinated, to take care of their health and the health of their loved ones so that we can get collective immunity together and preserve the health of the nation. There are too many people, you'll agree, lost your life or your parents or your friends. What we have today is all the conditions we need to worry about our health. We've got respirators, we've got medications, we've got two new hospitals in four months, now we've had vaccines for a while, and we're choosing which one we're going to vaccinate in. I think it's wise for all citizens to use it to get back to a normal life as soon as possible where we can, without worrying about hanging out and moving, but also to make our contribution to preserving the economy and the economy. It's clear to me that many at this point are not satisfied. We already think this whole epidemic thing is taking too long. Young people want to go to cafes, bar owners and bar owners want to work, that's the most normal thing, that's the source of income for their families. It's all expected, but I invite you to take a little more care, wear masks, keep a distance, vaccinate, look out for each other so that the number of infected and deceased is smaller. There's a lot of things up to us, I don't blame anyone, and I don't blame anyone, and we've given it all to ourselves in the fight against an unknown virus that's unorthodoxly deadly, but we always have to do better. Behind all of us stands the state, standing a strong health system that has not fallen apart although as health systems around the world has probably been on the edge many times, there have been doctors and nurses who have been in scuffanders for a year, the budget of the Republic of Serbia which can bear losses, but it can, and we have shown that it is possible, that it can also provide assistance in terms of one-time aid to the economy, vitamins for pensioners, but at the same time continue to build roads, railways, bridges, hospitals, etc. So I ask you all to keep what we have to last longer and to have a basis for new successes and results, for a better future for Serbia and for all of us in it. You won't mind me taking advantage of this announcement that, well, I'm talking about some subject that's been bothering us, I say, for the last year and more days, and that we have to think about every day even though every day we think about and how we can fix the situation of our economy, our economy, and our justice system. In the end, you'll let me deal with the candidates we have a chance to talk about today. I don't want to talk about the biography of concrete candidates, but I would like to list some candidates for whom I propose a contest and suggest that there be a special vote on candidates. These are the following candidates: for the judge of the General Court in Sombor – Jelena Kosovic, for the judge of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar – Munir Jusovic and Aladin Madžovic, for the judge of the Basic Court in Pozarevc – Mirjana Lukic. So I suggest that these candidates be voted in particular in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5258	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours, if necessary, because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since there are no more authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups in the system, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5259	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Also, at the very beginning, I want all the Muslims this month, Ramadan, who has been performing since last night, to be happy and to honor him in rashath, peace, tolerance and understanding of all the messages of Ramadan. What is important when we make decisions about judges who are first placed in a particular position is the fact that we only need to form an opinion on something that will be far more distant in our judiciary and society as a whole on the basis of our assessment and proposal. So we choose young people, we give them a chance to show what they are, whether, to what extent they are professionals and to what extent they will behave independently, honorably, honestly and professionally for which they have applied. It is therefore very important to have more complete pictures of all these candidates who are proposed and to simply be as precise as possible so that we can formulate opinions that will adequately support or give us the opportunity to make the right decision. Of course, there are four judges on this list who are elected to serve as judge in the Court of First Instance in Novi Pazar. It is good that these four judges are already present in the judicial system, that they have been through different trainings, that they have already worked as trainees or as assistant judges. So they are already known to the general public in the area and their expertise has been kind of tested. So it is very important that we have this continuity and it is important that all these young people who are coming and who need to get into these positions replace all those people who have been involved in many ways in political and, unfortunately, some other processes that have not been for the general benefit of the population, and very often have done harm to many citizens in individual but collective terms in various types of corrupt activities. It is therefore very important to be careful this time in selecting all judges, of course, and to be the one who will give a chance to young people, but always to give them this fact that they have the opportunity to cure this society from early corruption cancer, to cure this society from all other influences on the judiciary and thus to be beacons of justice, honesty, dignity and prosperity towards the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5260	Thank you. The remaining time for your parliamentary group, you're somewhere in the middle. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5261	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Pantic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, in a democratically arranged society freedom is not absolute, it is limited by the obligations and responsibility of each individual and that is what makes the essence of the rule of law. There is no ideal, perfect law, therefore there is no ideal system, but first of all, in order for the law to be good, it must be applied, unequivocally, clearly, equally for everyone. This creates strong institutions, and strong institutions make a strong state. Both the court and the prosecution are state authorities and act in public, not in private interest. The court is independent and independent, while the prosecution is independent, but not independent. The rules followed by the prosecutor are clearly defined by law and there is no place for improvisation. The prosecution can't release or condemn, his most important role is to prosecute the defendants. He does not judge, but determines the facts, collects evidence, manages the investigation. There is an expression of his addictive role, because at this stage, operational co-operation with the MUP, which must be effective, constructive, undoubtedly clear. Now that the state has gone into a decisive fight against organised crime, the roles of the prosecution and the police are particularly important. An important and important news and step forward towards judicial resolution is certainly an initiative to change the Constitution. The Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs called on the Prime Minister to hold a session to discuss the constitutional change initiative in the area of justice, which certainly requires a social consensus, as well as a willingness to conduct dialogue and a broad debate. I didn't want to talk about the motion to end the public prosecutor's office, because it's a procedural matter. As for the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, I believe their choice is very significant, because it must be borne in mind that in the basic courts the largest number of criminal cases is. Of course, it is the Presidents of the Court who bring a clear court with a detailed analysis which the candidates are the best and which the candidates deserve to be selected from the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5262	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5263	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Judge Pantic, ladies and gentlemen, the first item of the agenda that we are today deciding on is the termination of the office of public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, Mr Dragan Lopusina, and I will take the opportunity to congratulate him on the completion of the working century, which is also the reason for his termination of office. I'll appeal to his colleagues for adequate retirement, of course, with respect for all epidemiological measures. I want him to spend nice retirement days, and as lawyer Phil has already said, if he decides to do law enforcement and if he's admitted to the bar, I want him to succeed in his new job. As for the second item of the agenda, i.e. the election of new judges, I read somewhere, it seems to me, in some of the official reports, that the inflow of new cases has been increased by about 25%, while the growth of the total number of judges reaches slightly less than 19%, which means that the expansion of the human resources of our judiciary is not fully in line with the needs of citizens for judicial protection, and therefore I think it is extremely good that in this assembly we have a very often on the agenda to select new judges, which I believe not only will take over part of the work, but also with special urgency and efficiency, which can also be expected from newly elected judges, to contribute more effectively to the work of our courts, as well as to the exercise of the right of our citizens in a reasonable course, which is also a condition that the trial could be considered fair. Of course, I tell them that after entering office, if elected, they strictly respect procedural deadlines and that whenever they notice that if the parties obstruct the procedure and delay it, they use the powers they have in terms of procedural discipline, and all of this to ensure that property disputes are concluded within a reasonable period, especially family disputes, working disputes, so that the innocents are freed within a reasonable period of time, and the guilty are convicted. I think it's the legal state's demands. I especially stress this, not only because overcoming the reasonable deadline for ending the procedure costs the state, but also because when citizens often hear how long they usually go on, they lose their desire to protect their rights somewhere. That's somewhere in common, but we need to improve the efficiency of the trial, because justice must be available to our citizens. Citizens must know that the trial is within a reasonable period of time their right. I will remind them that the Law on the Protection of Trials is in force within a reasonable period of time, that whenever they feel that this reasonable period is exceeded they have the right to object in order to speed up the proceedings, to have the right to appeal, and if they are found to have been violated, they shall also have the right to fair compensation. Most of the time, it's a fee for non-proprietary damage, it seems to me that the amount is between 300 and 3,000 euros. I am saying this because of the citizens who are now looking at this Assembly, here, to remind them of the opportunities at their disposal to protect their right to an effective court. There is certainly a constitutional appeal that I can use after the proceedings have been completed. Another thing that is generally known, which is the excessively long duration of working disputes that are otherwise urgent under the law, because this is being resolved on existential issues and they must be resolved according to the legal text within six months. We praise the New Sad court because the average duration of the work dispute is two years ahead of it, while in other courts the average duration is about five years and it has to be worked on. I want to say one more thing that the Socialists have already pointed out in the previous assembly meeting, which is a contradiction between the rules on the evaluation of the work of judges and the Law on the litigation of litigation. It seems to me that according to this Regulation, the judge is considered to be extremely successful, i.e. it meets the criteria if the highest percentage of its decisions is made within 30 days and the rest within 90 days. I don't think that's in accordance with the Law on a litigation procedure that says that the deadline for making a decision is eight days, with the exception of the complex cases where 15 is, maybe there should be coordination. Anyway, I don't blame you, and we can't blame those delays just for the judges. I mentioned that often the parties also contribute to the long duration of the proceedings. In the last session, we talked about mass lawsuits that burdened the courts. I think the most important thing is that the state of these problems is aware and that is why I am glad that the amendments to the Law on the litigation procedure that should contribute to the efficiency of the trial have been announced. Informal improvements have also been announced in the judiciary that should facilitate the work of courts, as well as the communication of citizens with courts, as I felt that electronic submissions in practice were not very much alive. I think these are positive things we must certainly commend. What is also necessary for the trial to be just is an independent court and we must strengthen that guarantee. In this context, the proposed changes in the Constitution are also in the case of courts and public prosecutors. So, this proposal was submitted by the government to the National Assembly and such changes are necessary from the point of view of Eurointegration and from the aspect of harmonising our rights with European Union law. Now I don't want to prejudge concrete solutions, it's just going to be a subject of discussion, but I don't think there's any single reason for us in any area, or in the area of justice, to be below the European level and below European standards, when here we are in the most sensitive area right now, I mean vaccination outside. We've shown that we can. Certainly, I believe that the most important reason why the Constitution should change is the interests of our citizens and the right of our citizens to an independent and impartial court and that it is necessary to eliminate any possibility of influence on the court and its decisions. What I'm trying to say is that with EU requirements, we need to be careful. National Assembly President Ivica Dacic last night discussed these moving goals that the EU is setting before the countries that are predicating membership, in the sense that the requirements are often changed, extended, new and countries that want to become members are chasing towards their fulfillment, and that no progress in Eurointegration is being made. The example of Montenegro, which introduced the euro as a currency, which joined NATO, which has recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, introduced sanctions on Russia, one of which solves ministers whose statements do not like the West, and I do not see that they have done all the squeamish jobs required of them, and I do not see that they have progressed in Euro integration, and worse still, I do not see that their citizens have benefits from that. I am saying this because this should be a lesson to us, an instruction that all changes to the rules that are being made must be in the interest of our citizens, and thus the changes to the Constitution must be in co-ordination with the right of our citizens to an independent court and go towards strengthening that independence. Until these constitutional changes, along with existing constitutional mechanisms and with existing guarantees, judges, especially these newly elected judges, as well as judges who are already in permanent judicial office, must maintain their independence, because we know that independence has two dimensions, it is not only institutional, but depends on personal properties and must remain resistant to any kind of influence, incentives, to be deaf to every request, suggestion, lobbying and so forth. We believe that the candidates who are elected today are worthy, professional, qualified, we accept the recommendation of the High Council of the judiciary and we will support them as a parliamentary group of SPSs. We don't expect anything from them, this support they're going to get today can be forgotten. So we're at the point that no political influence on judges should be exercised. All we expect is that they blindly respect the Constitution, the law and all the regulations that bind all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5264	I thank the People's Messenger, Deep King. The word has a folk emissary, Nevena Veinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5265	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable representative of the High Council of the judiciary and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today ahead of us with a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office. When we talk about such an important topic and such an important function, the first thing we should mention is that judges are elected today in accordance with the law in this high house, that MPs have biographies of proposed candidates and that, with the biographies of the proposed candidates, we have the opinion of the High Council of the judiciary on the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates for such an important function. Independence and impartiality of the judiciary represent the backbone of the rule of law and provide equal legal protection for all citizens of our country. The independent judiciary provides citizens with the protection of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws, and therefore it is extremely important who performs the judicial function and how it does so. When we talk about justice, we can't help but look at the disastrous reform of the judiciary that was implemented in 2009, during the Democratic Party's power, because the consequences of this catastrophic reform we feel today. In 2009, judicial reform resulted in the illegal dismissal of over a thousand people, 800 judges and over 200 prosecutors, who, in the opinion of the High Council of the judiciary, were unworthy of office, which means that thousands of people were left out on the street, without work, and that move, namely, that reform of the judiciary to Serbia's state, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, later cost 44m euros. This is the result of a judicial reform carried out during the Democratic Party's rule of law. The only criteria for selecting judges at the time were political similarities, not someone's expertise, not someone's quality, but political similarities, because judges were elected by the municipal and city boards of the Democratic Party, according to high officials. Unfortunately, the judiciary is just a small part of what they managed to destroy. They were able to devastate the entire country, close down all the factories, manage to leave 400,000 people without a job, and thus lead this country to an end. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are then left to wonder where their money is, where is the money from the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the development of this country and where is the money when nothing is built, nothing is invested and nothing is invested? Here, dear citizens, we've come to the answer. The ball went loose and a little by little, we came up with 53 accounts in 17 countries where Dragan Gilas has 68 million dollars. It's hard to imagine a 68 million dollar figure like that. These are the results of Dragan Gilas' work. So, dear citizens, your money ended up with unethical locations, in tax havens, and in capital investments, but not in capital investments in schools, kindergartens, hospitals, health homes and highways, but in the capital investments of Dragan Gilas in hundreds of squares of real estate in the circle of two, in luxurious travel and even more luxurious cars. Fortunately, Serbia is going the right way today, not the wrong way. The arrival of SNS to power has started heavy reforms and implemented heavy economic reforms that have produced results and therefore Serbia is today an absolute leader in the region. Despite the root crisis not only affecting Serbia, Serbia has already hit the whole world, it has managed to be the first in Europe to attract foreign direct investment, to have the smallest GDP decline in Europe. We were able to be among the first in Europe by the number of vaccines and by the elections, but the lion's to fight for the purchase of vaccines and vaccines are selflessly shared with both Bosnia and Herzegovina, and with Northern Macedonia, and with Montenegro. Besides, we have enough money in our budget to build new schools and kindergartens, new parks, we have enough money to build new highways, new homes of health and new hospitals. These are the results of SNS and President Alexander Vukic's work. To return to the choice of judges, I believe that the opinion of the High Council of the judiciary, which is attached to the biographies of the proposed candidates, is the most sincere recommendation that candidates will perform their work, or function with honor, fair, faithful to the Constitution and the ethical code of judges. Because unfortunately, today there are judges who are very happy to go deaf about this ethical code, they are very happy to take pictures for the front pages of the magazine, they are visiting on shows on tycoon television, and they are less often engaged in daily political topics, while in their workplace, in the courtroom, they are making scandalous judgments, which we had the opportunity to hear about, just before from colleague Žarić Kovacevic. Fortunately, such judges are indeed few in Serbia today, because most judges do their job honestly and honestly, and in the belief that the proposed candidates will also perform their job, call and function in accordance with all moral principles, in accordance with the Constitution, the law, responsible, fair and honest. In the voting day, I will support the candidate proposal, as well as the rest of my parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5266	I thank the MP Nevena Veinovic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5267	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Pantic, VSS President, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrljig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. I have always, as I have always said and supported the bill's proposals, which were the interest of all citizens of Serbia, where I asked that the accent, the improvement of life, the conditions of life, all of which be for those people living in the country and from the village, living in southeastern Serbia, who live in both Serbia's border areas, and I expect that in the coming period we will all work on it. Today, when we talk about the proposal of these judges, who are elected for the first time, I believe in the correctness of making this decision, because the VSS, which represents the esteemed Mr Pantic, who is a man from the south, is from Nis. I especially welcome all of you, because when I look at you, I see fair work and all that is important to do on behalf of the people, both by law and by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think this is what we need to do. All the information we've received about these candidates is excellent candidates, and I think I'm sure I'll vote for this, because it's necessary and because it requires the need to work faster and better in the interests of all citizens, that the court proceedings are shorter, that it be all right. Otherwise, I'm going to mention a few things that matter to us, who live in these small areas. We are witnessing that a large number of municipalities, which have no courts, no primary courts, no judicial units, we don't even have the days to judge, and we have problems that many of our agricultural producers, who live in our villages, need to go to court. That's what I've been saying before, and I'm going to say it now, so it would be good if in those environments, one of these is the Srlig, that even if these days were to be judged, that our people, who come from these remote villages, had no transportation, paid for the cab, and came to the court in Nis, or some other place, where the basic court is located, and there was a delay in the hearing for the other day, or some month. So they, and if they're in a very difficult situation, they're making it even harder to finish their jobs. For this reason, I call upon you, within your jurisdiction, together with the Presidents of the Court, to allow these days to be made possible and to facilitate the arrival of our fellow citizens, where there are no basic courts, where there are no judicial units, so that they can finish those necessary things, because that is necessary. To conclude, I, as an MP to the USS, would congratulate all our friends, Muslims Ramadan, with the desire to be served by health and happiness, and to be human. Once again, I will vote, as an MP, for the proposals of these judges. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5268	I thank the People's Messenger, Milija Miletic. Your group's time has been spent. The word has the president of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5269	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Mr Pantic, today we're talking about two, as I would say, first of all, as my colleague, the King said, and the second is about our trust in the VSS decision, and we certainly have this trust, so absolutely no question of our support in the voting day, when it comes to both decisions. What I want to talk about today is a few things. First, the judicial system and the rule of law are the foundations of certainly a legally regulated and democratic state, as Serbia today is. The judiciary is one of Serbia's priorities, on its European path, so that the accompanying remarks and criticisms of the European Commission, which are shown in the annual report on Serbia's progress, the Serbian Government, adopted a new national strategy for the development of the judiciary and for the period 2020 to 2025, and a revision of the action plan for the negotiating chapter 23 relating specifically to justice and the basis of law. The new strategy has been drawn up exactly in line with the needs of further strengthening the rule of law, better access to justice and greater legal certainty, and at the same time it is proof that Serbia is ready to continue implementing its legislation, with European legislation, that is to say to harmonize its legislation, with European legislation. We strive to get even closer to European standards. This approach is achieved, both through the creation of a good legal framework and through the practical work of the judicial authorities and uniform judicial practice that enables all before the law to be placed on the same footing. So the law must be the same for everyone. The judicial and public prosecutor's authorities should ensure the uniform judicial application of the rights and equality of parties in judicial proceedings, improving the expertise of the judiciary, improving the transparency and availability of the judiciary, as well as improving the efficiency of the judiciary and, of course, institutional strengthening of the court, which is also of paramount importance. In its EU accession process, Serbia has committed itself to implementing important constitutional reforms today, aimed at strengthening the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, but also at responsibilities of judicial holders. So one of Europe's demands towards Serbia as a candidate for full membership is total independence from the judicial branch of power. The reform of the judiciary in order to strengthen its independence and efficiency is a priority in the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, is a priority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government has drawn up a proposal for constitutional reforms and I would not like to reconsider, as my colleague said, what it would look like, but sent it to the National Assembly's competent committee. I will remind only that last week, a meeting was held here in the National Assembly, attended by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and Justice Minister Maja Popovic and the chairman of the committees agreed to move forward with the procedure when it comes to constitutional changes. And just so there is no confusion in the public, very often due to uninformedness, but even maliciously some call, opposition leaders, mistranslate or interpret public information on constitutional changes, saying that it is about changes that affect the preamble of the Constitution. So that's not true. The only changes to the Constitution proposed so far concern the judiciary, which is exactly a guideline and meeting the EU's demands, that the choice of judicial holders at all stages and for all levels of government be carried out within the justice system itself. So, no participation from the National Assembly. I underline this, with the intention to present to the citizens, what is the actual content of the constitutional changes so far proposed, in order to avoid public manipulations, from some opposition circles, which persistently seek to show the announced constitutional changes as a division of power and as our intention to change the preamble, defining the position of KIM, as an indivisible part of Serbia's territorial integrity. In addition to depolitising the judiciary and strengthening its independence and in accession negotiations, the rule of law is, and must remain one of the key objectives and it is absolutely not controversial, to whom we seek as an orderly and legal state, as I repeat Serbia today, and it is. When we talk about the rule of law and when we talk about the suggestions that we receive from the European Commission's report, of course they have the legitimate right to have their own position and opinion but allow them our legitimate right as representatives of citizens to have a position and opinion in Parliament to state it. So, when it comes to the Brussels process, Serbia has fulfilled everything that was expected of it. There is nothing Serbia has not met as a request, when it comes to the Brussels process, but Serbia has not entered the Brussels process to be underestimated and humiliated, but to come through dialogue to a compromise and fair solution that will be acceptable to both sides, which did not happen in the Pristina case. In addition, we suffer criticism about the rule of law in our country, while the same rule of law is being violated in this very process. And it's not a slap, as I would say to Serbia, because Serbia has proved to be a reliable, secure and stable partner in this process, and this once again confirms Serbia's international credibility. So, the obligations that Serbia accepts and implements. This is a slap on Brussels and the European Union, as the whole process is under the auspices of Brussels and the European Union. On the other hand, I do not dispute the right of Europarliamentaries to have their position, but we, too, have the legitimate right to have our position, to express serious concerns about the extent of the continued political influence, as they said, on the judiciary and to appeal to Serbia to resolve some of the affairs that I would not say today, except to say that the cases already being resolved by the state by arresting those responsible, and on the other hand very interestingly, do not mention any more serious affairs that are present in Serbia, which are visible, current, which are supported by facts and which I am convinced are to receive the epilogue of the competent authorities and the competent institutions. I'm not judging, but I'm convinced there will be an epilogue of competent authorities and competent institutions. Serbia, therefore, is leading a uncompromising, determined and not selective fight against organised crime and corruption, which is one of six basic principles and principles based on which the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed and established. Serbia has proved its courage and determination and all that has been done in the previous period of time is one serious blow to Serbia's precisely organised crime. When someone says there is no political will, yes, there is political will. It is shown by works, not words, and there is one synergy of the practical functioning of what makes the government, which makes it a resolute ministry, but also normative action, what makes it a concrete National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for example through adoption, for us a very important legislative proposal, which is the Law on the origin of property. I don't know why individuals get nervous about this law, but we think it's a law of exceptional importance and importance. So it is not for European parliamentarians to interfere in the work of judicial authorities, nor to comment, and especially not to weigh individual opposition political parties, that is our opinion and our position at a given time. Serbia is an independent state. The legitimacy of this government and this Parliament has been given by citizens in the elections, not by European Parliamentarians because it is not their job. Democracy in Serbia takes place in the elections and only elections can change Serbia's political course. Serbia has never given itself the luxury of commenting on the cases of other countries, because this is a direct violation of the first and basic standards in relations between countries. She never interfered with the internal affairs of other states. I reminded myself a few days ago, I'll remind you of that today. When they speak of political pressure on the judiciary, a concrete example of the President of the Republic. So, on the case of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who was sentenced in January of this year to pay 200,000 dinars once, call the opposition leader on account of an insult that allegedly caused the same call the leader suffered mental pain. Now I ask the question can we then talk about any political influence on the Serbian judiciary? When we talk about the views of European parliamentarians, we are talking about justice. We are in the Assembly, and the assembly is the highest body of the legislative authority, so where we legitimately elected representatives of citizens talk about alternatives to how to come up with the most qualitative legislative solutions that will be in the best interest of citizens, when, for example, European parliamentarians insist on dialogue with the opposition in order to find solutions in favour of improving the electoral process, paradoxically, the parties in power are the first to respond to the negotiations, because there is no alternative for us dialogue. We have also shown this by participating in talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences with representatives of individual opposition political parties, the NGO sector, we have also shown during the first phase of inter-party dialogue, so we have shown that we are interested in talking to all political actors to give their opinion, present their proposals if these proposals exist, in order to improve the electoral conditions leading to greater democraticity of the electoral system. This has proved that it is open to talks, I repeat, to listen to proposals, suggestions, regardless of the position in the political spectrum, unlike individual representatives of the opposition. So it's not a conversation if you come to one of the dialogues, call dialogues, start and say – these are 42 requests or boycotts. This is not the way to come up with a compromise solution and come up with any solution, to talk specifically, at least on these 42 proposals, it's an ultimatum, and that's not the way to conduct a dialogue. As Serbia implemented almost everything agreed during the inter-party dialogue, the only objection we could find was that the electoral laws had been amended in the election year. So during the first phase of inter-party dialogue, we had a specific agenda as a result of that first phase. The agenda meant changing electoral legislation, I mean four or five amendments to the law, and that, of course, in the election year. If they were referring to a change in electoral legislation, a reduction in censorship from 5% to 3%, so does anyone think that came in favor, let's say the largest political party, currently in Serbia's political scene. Of course not. But what was meant to be achieved by making a representative pattern of public opinion in parliament, to enable those who were absolutely far away from these famous 5%, to have their representatives in parliament, to have intensive dialogue in parliament and to lead politics in parliament, not on the street. The opposition's boycotting the elections, not entering parliament, is not the problem of this ruling coalition either, is neither the issue nor the electoral legislation, it is their political stance and their political assessment. When they appeal to the National Assembly to avoid, they say, a speech of offensive and incendiary nature and to oppose hate speech, representatives of the European Parliament should understand that there is determination and willingness in the ruling coalition to talk about everything, and I repeat it for who knows which time. Europarliamentaries' attitudes are sometimes vague, politically biased, but no matter what, every word is somehow respected. A little while ago, a colleague spoke and she's a young MP. I do not think and fully agree with the President's position that we and when it comes to European integration should comment on other countries and interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. When it comes to European integration, Serbia has also shown determination, both commitment and very clearly made it clear that Serbia's strategic and main foreign policy goal is precisely full membership in the EU. We have also confirmed this determination in parliament by considering for the first time in practice the European Commission report in the National Assembly. But you know how, will this process be successful and how successful it will depend, first of all, on one species... It involves a well-intentioned partnership. So, not double standards, not double arches, but a well-intentioned partnership. Our path to the EU, it is clear to all, depends not only on what Serbia is doing and doing and what the institutions in Serbia are doing, depends on Brussels, the other EU members and their relations with our vital and national and state interests. Why did I say not to interfere with the internal affairs of other states? Because Serbia has shown its intensity during the pandemic period, which is peace, stability, good neighbourly relations and co-operation. The pandemic period, which the colleague spoke of, showed the strength of Serbian politics. This period of the pandemic has shown that Alexander Vukic as president of the Republic is someone who united the region. This is not just about tens of thousands of vaccines sent to countries in the region. Donations aren't vaccines, that's the way to reconciliation. We shouldn't talk bad about each other. We are too small to be able to achieve anything, and therefore for who knows what time I repeat that we support the president's position when he says -- one vote together in front of the EU, in front of Brussels, in front of the world force, because this is a way to achieve the goals that are of interest to the whole region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5270	I thank the People's Messenger, Djordjo Milicevic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5271	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today, when we talk about strong, independent and modern Serbia, we certainly cannot talk about Serbia that has an independent and objective judiciary, the judiciary that is now in the area between the borders of the Constitution and the law, and which is as such aimed at preserving the legal order and protecting basic human, civil and minority rights. Of course, when we talk about an independent and objective judiciary, we cannot help but talk about judges and prosecutors who are independent of the executive and who make their decisions only after this law. Judges and prosecutors are, above all, independent of the executive authority and they are elected by the National Assembly, and later by the High Council of the judiciary, but what we must never forget is that the verdicts are made on behalf of the people, and logically the latter is that if the verdicts are made on behalf of the people, that we MPs, as legitimately elected representatives of the people, we are making decisions that we can contribute to strengthening the judicial apparatus, but not over that red line that many would be characterized as mixing into an independent third branch of government. We've been talking since two decisions today. One decision refers to the choice of future court office holders, and the other concerns the termination of the post of senior public prosecutor in Smederev. As in previous sessions when we talked about the choice of a future judge-holder, so today we are talking about the new 37 litigators who have been proposed by the High Council of the judiciary and after the law of the established procedure. As before when we talked about those litigators of justice, I hope that these 37 litigators of justice will contribute to a more up-to-date and efficient judiciary. First of all, I have to say that this is more objective and independent and more up-to-date justice, first of all, due to the citizens of Serbia. I can also say that these candidates have acquired the necessary knowledge and experience both at the judicial academy and by performing the duties of judicial associates. First of all, these are candidates who have met all the laws prescribed and I hope that they will use their judicial function exclusively in further strengthening the judicial apparatus. I didn't accidentally say "use," because lately we've been facing cases where high-ranking judges go public, sending political messages and being politicians as needed. First of all, what you learn at the first year of law school is that justice is independent, that judges are independent, that judges cannot and cannot be members of political parties and that it is not moral for judges to go public and comment on those topics that have political character. Judges can go public, they can't do that, but they can only do that in specific cases, with the approval of competent court cases and when there's a reasoned request from the judge why he wants to go public and comment on a particular topic. Even the Disciplinary Council of the High Council of the Judiciary said in one case that the judge in the media was injured by a member of the 58th Rules of Procedure, but it is obvious that Judge of the Court of Appeal Mr Majic is not concerned about the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the law he applies as judge of the Court of Appeal. So from this point on, I would like to tell Mr. Majic that he, acting as his judge, acting as a judge of the Court of Appeals, needs to be a role model for younger generations of law school students, and that he contributes to his integrity that the imperative of judicial functions is even stronger for younger students of the Faculty of Law, but it is obvious that this is not the case today. We all, of course, have the right to differing views and this right gives us the legal order and by the Constitution guaranteed the right to express and the right to freedom of opinion, but we MPs do not go to courts, we do not go to courts, we do not comment on court decisions and we do not ask that in a particular court procedure an individual or greater should decide. We work daily in this way to show citizens of Serbia, that our younger generations are doing the work of legitimately elected representatives of the people, and that we are doing the job exclusively in accordance with the Constitution and the law. What does not stand in the textbooks of the Faculty of Law, which Mr Majic has finished and which I have finished, is that we must not go to the media and comment on those topics that are not in our jurisdiction. We can't comment on the judiciary, they shouldn't comment on politics, but that's what Mr. Majic does almost daily in both print media and certain shows. I'd like to ask Mr. Majic this time how come he didn't comment on judicial reform in 2009 after which thousands of justice-makers remained on the street? In one act, he said that the judiciary is in a deep crisis. Well, Mr. Majic, the judiciary was in a deep crisis when the same judiciary reformed Malovic, Mesarevicka and other leaders of the justice ministry. That judiciary was in a deep crisis when lawyers couldn't do their jobs a year after the reform, and they had to pay taxes from which you and we are receiving salaries today. So this is why I want to ask you whether you're putting yourself aside from the reformer or putting yourself in the place of your thousands of unselected colleagues? It is obvious that the arches today and at that time are not the same because many of you at that time did not put aside a thousand unselected litigators of justice. None of you have raised your voice because these people have been characterized as unworthy, but it is obvious that times are not the same and that this topic was not popular for you at the time because you couldn't make political points on it. Perhaps, if we look a little deeper, you didn't want to resent those who reformed the judiciary because you had progressed from basic to appeals court. You have progressed two degrees, Mr. Majiæ, and the rule is that you can advance from degree to degree, or, which would be natural, that you, as a judge of the municipal court, are progressing in a higher court. What I must also say is that, Mr. Majiæ, that reform cost us 11 billion dinars, but what's worse is that this reform of the judge and the prosecutors cost us our lives, health and good family relations. Imagine that you have found yourself in a position that the environment must comment on you as an unworthy judge. In one of your performances, you said it was very dangerous if there was a connection between the judiciary and the politicians. I must tell you, Mr. Majic, it is very dangerous when there is a document from the Democratic Committee, or the municipal board of DS from Vlastoins, in which it is clearly seen how DS framed people for the general election. Obviously, again, that topic was not current to you at the time, because you couldn't earn political points. Also, I have to tell you, whether you want to accept it or not, the judiciary today is objectively independent and impartial. Today, judges are not afraid of being transferred to other courts or subject to a new reelection because of their judgments. In 2009, the judiciary was undermined by the political interests of the DS, those of the people who were sitting at the head of the DS, whose vanity caused it to fall apart several years later. Since the reformist DS, wonderful and brilliant, several smaller opposition parties were created in 2009 to lead by the officials, who broke that DS because of their vanity. You know what happened then? It happened, and today, that they are calling on the Constitution, the law, the international convention, to beg everyone to return to power, but the people do not want them. You know why he doesn't want them? Because he saw everything they did in the judiciary, in health care, in the economy. The people know that they recognize those who care about their interests, their families' interests and better conditions in the judiciary, health care and economy. We all have to agree that you, Mr. Majic, have political aspirations, and of course it is not prohibited, but in the same way that court proceedings are conducted in courts, political processes, political debate is being held here in parliament. To be a political factor in parliament, you must establish a political movement or political party and win the necessary number of votes to be here in parliament, because I cannot be a judge from parliament and you, Mr. Majic, cannot be a politician from the courtroom. That's what Serbian citizens expect. If you, as you say in media performances, are in favour of a legal and legal state, you should do everything that is not done by Malovicka, Mesarovićka and other members of the VSS when they have destroyed the judiciary. So I want to say again -- the judiciary is a space within the borders of the Constitution and the law, and if you want this state to remain legal, I would like to advise you not to use the media and the media space and to see political decisions and political opportunities from the corner of the judicial function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5272	Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour and continue our work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5273	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has a national emissary, Jelena Kocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5274	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the High Council of the judiciary, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which gives us the opportunity to touch the subjects of the judiciary as one of the three branches of the government that is independent and independent in its work. Reading the biographies of the proposed candidates, I noticed that it is mainly about younger people, that their qualifications meet the conditions for performing judicial work, and I hope that the judicial function will be performed with honor, dignity, fair, in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They will face a difficult task, which is to restore citizens' trust in our judicial system through their work, independence and impartiality. Justice remains a sensitive topic for us, the cancer of our society's wounds, because even after 12 years of judicial reform carried out by the DS our society has still not recovered, the consequences continue. The failure of judicial reform cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and 44m euros in 2009. That year, about 1,000 judges and prosecutors were out of work because they were not on the lists in a new network of courts and prosecutors, regardless of the Constitution and then guaranteed their continuity. And today, after all this time, the total and total damage that the Republic of Serbia's budget suffered due to compensation for payments to unselected judges, as well as losses and problems in stasis over the work of courts and prosecutors, has not yet been established. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that courts are independent and independent in their work and that judges judge on the basis of the Constitution, laws and other general acts, when provided for by law, the general rules of international law and approved international agreements, and that judges are independent in their work and subject to only the Constitution. This means that the politicisation of the judiciary in our country has no place and that is one of the priorities of the SNS - a strong, independent and independent judiciary. Today we choose candidates based on their expertise, based on their biographies, not on party books, as they did before us. In 2009, when this disastrous reform of the judiciary, I enrolled the Faculty of Law in Nis and, like all young people who had just stepped into life, who had chosen their own interests, my colleagues and I, young lawyers, until then, we thought we were living in a state where the legal system was governed, where the rule of law and where the highest act of a country is respected, and that is the Constitution. These were our first disappointments when we learned one thing in colleges, educated and passed exams, and something else was happening around us in practice. That's when it first became clear to us that, at the head of the DS in our country, we young people had no future. We only had two options -- the first is to get diplomas and leave the country where corruption and crime rule, and the second is to stay in our country and fight for the rule of law. We chose another solution, because in the policy led by SNS and our President Alexander Vukic, we saw a chance to change. Today, young people in Serbia are not at such a crossroads, because today we have a responsible government, today we have a responsible president who supports us young people and advocates that we stay and build the future in our own country. While I'm with young people, I can't help but look back on the support that local self-government provides for students and students. Unlike the period when I was a student, when this country was led by others, those who were only interested in their own interests, who worked only for their own pocket and who did not advocate the future of young people and the well-being of Serbian citizens, today the situation is slightly different, because today young people have the support not only of the state, but of the city they come from. Thanks to the mayor, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, who founded the Youth talent Fund in Leskovac from the establishment to the present day, about 4,000 students and students were rewarded for the results and achievements achieved. I am pleased to say that today we are considering the motion for a decision on the selection of judges for the basic court in Leskovec that individual candidates who were proposed and whose biography we had just been awarded through this fund. I will only briefly take the opportunity to look back at this year 2009 and remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about how the elected judges and prosecutors in the Jablanic district, where I come from, were specifically in the Municipality of Vlasotince, which all the media wrote about when the document was leaked in public due to the conflict of new and old DS electricity on how judges and prosecutors were elected. I have here this document where the names of judges and prosecutors are taxed and where they are all individually described. On the one hand, the seal and signature of the chairman of the municipal board of the DS, on the other hand, the signing of the President of the Municipality of Vlasotince and of these names, states that all those who were identified as tough enemies of the DS were not worthy, or that they were not similar to those described as similar to those whose members were members of the family or spouses, who provided DS legal assistance or paid membership fees to that party. This very document and this kind of election of judges is proof of the political corruption we all fight against. It's not the only case of political reckoning and injustice we've encountered by the DS authorities. That same year, a failed rationalisation was carried out in Leskovac, in which around 317 local self-government employees were out of work. They ran out of work without any criteria, without an evaluation of the work simply because they were politically inadequate, or unthinkable of the ruling party. We feel these consequences today because we paid 300 million dinars from the budget, and for that money we could build at least 150 playgrounds for children in our city. Since 2012 when the SNS took over the fight against crime began, the fight against corruption continues to take place, which is still difficult, but our President Aleksandar Vukic is persistent in this struggle because his goal is to restore our citizens' confidence in our institutions, to restore confidence in our country. The judiciary is an independent branch of power, but judges must not forget that they are not independent of the Constitution and of the law and that they make judgments on behalf of the people. The biggest regret that our citizens have, as far as the judiciary is concerned, is that the court proceedings are very slow, that they get old, that cases are often in drawers for a long time, so I would take the opportunity to appeal to all the judges, as well as the candidates we choose today, to make sure that justice is not slow and accessible, as our people say, but also to be much faster and much more efficient. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, will continue to advocate judicial reform and the creation of an independent, efficient and independent judicial system. All the judges, as well as the candidates we're going to appoint today, I would ask them to respect the principle of trial within a reasonable time, that all our citizens be equal before the law and that the simplest way comes to justice. Also, I wish all the candidates a lot of success in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5275	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5276	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to be brief and brief when we talk about this important subject. So here I will say a few things that are extremely important to me, and above all I think that today we have the opportunity to consider this point of the agenda and, of course, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, can also put on the proposal of course the High Council of the judiciary, to resolve and to first name judges, as we have the opportunity in this debate, to say as someone who, 18 years ago, has completed the State Law Faculty that for all of these, I will dare to say to young people today who are candidates for these functions, and then to explain to you why I believe that young people, although they are really in mature years, are the greatest honor that someone who can have completed the Law School, passed a judicial exam, worked in the judiciary and finally came to the situation that in this case, the High Council of Justice is proposing in the highest House, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a proposal for a vote. And this practice, and this stability that Serbia manifests and through this kind of election, for the first time in the election of judges is, in my humble opinion, the most important thing to preserve. When we look at the biography of these candidates and we read their age, then I think the the thesis that they are young people, even though they are mature, perhaps age-old, in terms of judicial function, which is again and how compatible to choose for the first time today, and how important and powerful message. Reading these suggestions, I pulled out their age, so it says 1988, 1981, 1981, 1981, 1984, 1982, 1989, 1986, 1984, 1982, 1985, 1980, 1982, 1988, 1980, 1984, 1981. All of them are in 1970 and 1973, 1975, 1976, 1972, 1978. I'm 1978, and I can be from someone who's in 1978, when I look at how many candidates are here in 1980 and more years, how important this is to these people, and how important it is to debate right here. I'm like someone who's done this college, if you were a candidate in this position, as I feel right now, I don't just feel responsible, I'd get a chill at least. The responsibility waiting tomorrow for all those who receive the support of the MPs is most important to judge both in the name of justice and in the name of the people. Given that there have been a lot of debates here on this issue and that in public too much to say, the negativity has come out in all of this, I would not look back at my discussion in this direction, but I can only say as someone who comes in front of the SNS, that we never, nor have allowed ourselves, nor will we allow what the representatives of the former regime have done, that, in one hand, the confusion not only of the judiciary and become political holders of judicial functions, but of doing so much damage, and I hope that all those who are concerned about this, who are in the judiciary, know that these consequences are present today. Because we're free of a manifestation of political will, of all that will be done by security and police agencies, even by the prosecution, if we don't have judges who are willing to judge and within an effective, quick deadline, within the time limit prescribed by law and who are willing to judge and bring justice in the name of the people, and that criminals and all those who have done the illegal things, are processing as quickly as possible. In all this, the greatest role is played by the people we choose and vote. There is no policy, I, responsible from this place, claim to the public of the Republic of Serbia that no one in this SNS and SNS has ever advocated any story concerning the impact on any judge, comment on any judge in terms of a story that implies what they should do, their cases and everything else. Never, never. As we do not have in any sense guidelines that mean that we need someone to politically force and choose in this position. For that reason, I am proud to be in such a party, such a parliamentary group that has never allowed itself and certainly never will, because we inherit a completely different value. And we respect the rule of law and do these things exactly in that direction that implies everything we just said. In the direction of the stories of the announced amendments to the Constitution, the amendments, the public debate that I need, it is my humble opinion, that and how it leads with caution. The directions and proposals coming from different addresses from the Venice Commission are certainly good and should be heard. But we are here to regulate relations that are best for the Republic of Serbia, for its citizens for its people to have justice in the right way. Examples that are suggested in any case to bear a great sign of questionnaires and dilemmas, which is that this practice we have today, and that on our own at the VSS or the prosecution tomorrow, judges and prosecutors choose for themselves, and that once a year they send us a report that, if we don't accept, will mean nothing to them. I come and spend most of my life in BiH. The example of the International Community, the Venice Commission, was just established there. The defeat of such a way of regulating the judiciary is visible at every possible step. Not for personal reasons, but also rational, I can't say that with a great deal of caution in terms of this story that means we're going in this direction, we should now point out this as some new value which is European, which is standard, which is normative, etc. A serious and strong important debate on this issue, given that constitutional amendments, amendments to the Constitution, need to be made on this issue, because this is also a sensitive issue. Once it goes that way, it's very difficult to get back what we have practice. For this reason, I want to say to the very end what is and how important for all of us, that we support all representatives of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia who are doing their job with honor and responsibility. We know that there are also dolls in every grain and that by this parliamentary group, by the SNS, its leadership, the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, they have full support that they are doing their job in accordance with the law. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5277	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Sanja Lakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5278	Honorable judges, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the Valjevska nahija hut in the village of Klicevic, believed in the words of prost Mateja Nenadovic, the first Serbian judges tried. In these courts so many years ago, at least as he wrote the Wolf in his writings – every man could also sue the Duke and he had to come answer. Since this callous hut, which we are so proud of as a people, through courts that have been crumbling for decades and in cities from which you dear MPs come, and in Kragujevac, Užica, Svilajnci, Jagodina, Valjev, Šapcu, Serbian society wanted independence, transparency, objectivity, efficiency. He wanted good laws, he cried out for justice and justice. Two centuries from the chalet today, Serbian society and the Serbian state want both independence and objectivity and efficiency, they want a professional judiciary that can respond to all the challenges of transition and globalisation. Through these two centuries of Serbian justice development, Serbia has gone through different periods. She came out also as a winner and defeated, but the last iron stake in the heart of the Serbian judiciary is for the 2009 judicial reform. After such a massacre, and after such crimes, any lawyer would use the wisdom of the Roman tribunal to ask "Cui bono" – what benefit? Indeed, to what benefit has 44.4m euros spent on a failed reform? What is the benefit of a set of rusty laws that preceded this reform and were adopted right at the House of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? What's the use of your badly-drawn network of courts? What's the use of cutting your frames? What's the use of paid salaries for 836 newly elected judges and 75 deputy prosecutors, people who haven't done their job? What good is it that you wanted to make of Serbia and lock up a simple hut in the Balkans? What good would it be for you to carry out both politics and reform in that Serbian cabin, according to your opinion, and then, for some manager, your chief cabin ringleader came out, the only thing he knew in the region to say was, "I'm sorry?" I ask you, who benefits from such reform and such policies? Man, all you have to do is "excuse" the Serbian peasant and the Serbian judiciary and all the citizens whose youth you've torn apart as angry dogs is a piece of crap. You owe the only "excuse" after such judicial reforms to Serbia, and the one who stayed behind. And after every illness, the path to healing isn't the size of a mile, it's only a few inches. See what Serbian healing means today. Instead of building cabins for which you were known, today we are building palaces in the Republic of Serbia, the palace of justice in Kragujevac, which will be completed in a month. Serbia today is building 22,000 square meters, 74 courts, 24 cabinets of the courtroom. There will be 800 people under one roof whose knowledge and skills we will invest every day, because this is finally a country that cares about man and every citizen, who finally cares about developing his own judiciary. This is nothing in the heart of Šumadija, this is nothing in Kragujevac, and only two years ago we completely renovated the symbol of both the Belgrade and Serbian judiciary, the Court of Justice in Belgrade, 26,000 square meters. It's a step towards improving the rule of law. From 2012 to 2019 it was adapted, renovated and completely built more than 200,000 square meters. The path of healing can't be long, but these steps that it makes today Serbia are certainly positive, despite having enough space to work even more and face all the problems that have remained in the past, which I will talk about in the weeks to come. Finally, I want to say that there is no more time for Serbia for bad, for average MPs, for bad, for average ministers, no more time for bad, for average judges. This country, in order to recover its judiciary, needs the best and you will surely be elected today. I want my fellow lawyers, honorary judges, Serbian intelligence to wish to work on the pride of this country and on the healing of the Serbian judiciary, and let them judge as we were taught at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade – neither by the grandmother nor by the uncles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5279	Thank you. The People's Messenger Branimir Spasic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5280	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Honored Judge Pantic, it is a pleasure to have you here with us today. Welcome back. Many say that the judiciary is the cancer of our society's wounds. Often here when the choice of judges or anything else related to the judiciary is on the agenda, there's always been a way of talking in a negative context. This is all because some judges who have forgotten that they are judges, so they do a little bit of politics, go around the foreign embassies a little bit, and we, we forget the good judges a little bit, and we ignore the good results our judiciary gave in the previous period. I want to talk about these good results because these good results are closely linked to the choice of judges, which is the subject today. Personally, I don't think our judiciary is the cancer of our society's wounds. Actually, I think it was. Why was it and why wasn't it anymore? Now I want to make a small comparison of what state the judiciary was in before 2012 and in what state the judiciary was in after 2012 when the government took over the SNS and when they passed many laws that were aimed at making our judiciary better and more efficient. Although it has been more than ten years since that famous and unpopular reform of the judiciary we can never forget how in one single day, call it what you will, whether or not they have passed the re-election, got fired, replaced, whatever, but the fact is that in one single day thousands of judges have lost their jobs. A thousand of your colleagues, Judge Pantic, were literally thrown out of court in a day. Dear citizens, I know you've heard many times from my colleagues how much it cost the state of Serbia to reform the judiciary, but we never talked about what the state could do then with that money. I'll just point to it through a few examples. At that time, the state could also secure over a thousand fully equipped sanitary vehicles. To provide every hospital or every home of health with a couple of sanity. Imagine a column of thousands of sanity and imagine some of these sanity going to your community, your city, your hospital, and how it saves lives. Or imagine how in your place you have the latest and most modern school built from foundation to roof. Such could have been over 30 in Serbia. Imagine that money was treated by sick children abroad, how many lives they could save, but they didn't. No, because they boasted the previous government was not interested in saving lives, it was not interested in working, building and helping citizens, but also how they were interested in cleaning the courts, cleaning the courts from those judges who were not like them. Dear citizens, do you believe that the amount of 44m euros is said to have cost the state judicial reform, whether you believe it is not the final amount and whether or not it is believed to be increasing from day to day. I'll show you how, and I believe a lot of people haven't paid attention to that. Every year, the state pays compensation for the damage to the trial within a reasonable period of time. For those who aren't lawyers, one small and shortest explanation of what that means now, so we know what we're talking about. The court is due, during a certain period of time, to end the proceedings. If the trial takes too long, the party shall have the right to request the court to establish a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Where a breach of the right to trial has been established within a reasonable period of time, the party shall obtain the basis for requesting compensation from the court or State. According to one case, the amount of damage ranges from 300m to 3,000 euros. What happens next? The reform of the judiciary has caused chaos in the courts and left lasting consequences on our judiciary. Chaos, because the judges went from court to court, the court cases walked in boxes from one court to another court, suspended the hearings and so suddenly, all with already existing millions of cases that existed back then in the courts. Then we arrive at a delay in cases, trials, hearings, and thus we come with enormous amounts of damage that the state pays and today. The damage the state pays today is a direct consequence of judicial reform, a direct consequence. I've prepared here amounts as many as it is per year, I won't read to you per year, but I'll read you the sum, so you see what these amounts are. So, for the period from 2016 to 2020, the state of Serbia paid for the damages because the trials are too long and they last because of the chaos, as I said, which was caused by judicial reform, 4.473,606,000 dinars. This is the total amount paid to the judges by both the forced route and the voluntary route by the court, all together. Now, respected citizens, to the 44 million you've heard, add these 4.5 billion dinars, and see what the state could do with that money. As far as we could have had the roads and factories, as much as we could have had the hospital and the sanity. These amounts of government pay and day-to-day. Pays, and all because of the boasting of the previous government, because of the boasting of individuals who would now return to be head of the government again. I'm talking, of course, about Boris Tadic and Dragan Gilas and the others next to them. How's the judiciary today, how's it going? Two thousand twelve years ago there were, beware of this amount, 3,200,000 pending court cases in 2012, and today by June 30, 2020, our judiciary successfully solved 1,700,000 cases. So now we have an amount of 1,700,000 objects. This is a very good amount, given that these cases are solved with the same number of judges. So there's no increase in the number of judges. Only the judges know what it's like to solve old, back-to-back cases, and do these new ones. By 2012, the average trial lasted over 600 days, and today the average trial lasts less than 300. Two thousand twelve years ago we had over 200,000 objects that lasted over 10 years, and today these items are gone, and that figure is significantly, significantly smaller. Isn't this a more effective judiciary and isn't this a success? This is a success given by the responsible government, headed by the responsible president of the Republic of Serbia, by passing laws after the 2012 target, as I initially said, that our judiciary and judiciary would be more effective and better. But one thing must be clear, without you Judge Pantic and many of your colleagues who are safe and honest doing their job these results could not be achieved. That is why you should be congratulated and thanked for our justice and the judiciary is no longer so black and because our judiciary is no longer the cancer of our society. For that reason, I trust you for every proposal you make, or I trust everyone in the High Council of the Judiciary, in the proposal you make for a judge's election, because I believe it's the best candidate, and what can be seen from their evaluations and the report you've given. I'm from the Lebanese municipality. In Leban, we have a basic court with three municipalities, the municipality of Lebana, Major and Medvedja. Just over a year ago, the Court of First Instance in Lebanon received four new young judges. I really have to congratulate you on this choice, because these new four young judges have done extremely well in the work of the judge, very effectively, objectively and impartially. But I also have to admit that they have the selfless help of other judges who also work at the primary court in Lebanon. You will surely remember the judge, but I will tell the public that in Leban 2016, the Court of Justice received recognition from the High Council for increasing the number of solved old cases. It says that on the state of the Leban Court, there are honest and honest people working there, and in other courts in Serbia, and this clearly shows that things are going better. As for the candidate for judges who are first elected to office, I wouldn't go into detail because of what I said I believed, and I believe that in the day of voting my colleagues will support your proposal. At the very end, I will take the opportunity to quote a judicial prayer and thus send a message to all judges who are first elected to the judicial office, and it reads this way: “Lord, I am the only being on earth to whom you have given your every opportunity, the power to condemn or free my neighbor. On my mark, the prison door closes behind the conviction's back or opens one day for freedom. My judgment can turn poverty into property or wealth into misery. My decision depends on the fate of many lives. They're all subject from birth to death to the law I represent, the justice I mean. When one day I will fall down, and then I will appear before your highness, your presence, for the last judgment, look at me with mercy, and say my judgment to Yahweh. He judges me as God; I have judged as a man.” So, my message to every judge who is first elected to the judge's office, so those who already are—judge with honor, judge fairly, judge objectively and impartially and judge as a man. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5281	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5282	Thank you. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Mr Pantic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk today about the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the Court of First Instance in the Kingdom, the Court of First Instance in Leskovec, the Court of First Instance in Alexinac, the Court of First Instance in Sombor, the Court of First Instance in Novi Pazar, the Court of First Instance in Užica and the Court of First Instance in Pozarevec. Namely, it's 37 candidates. I'd just say, I'm always saying that, so for the record, on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, we're just voting here for judges who are first elected to office. This is very important, because there are many insinuations from the various judges addressed to the state summit, of course, regarding the Prime Minister and our esteemed President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, because one of the judges is persistently speaking, and that is Judge Majic, that Vukic chooses his judges. Please, that's the most stupid thing I've ever heard in my life. Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia deals with extremely important things in life. It's state policy, it's not about judges, it's not about choices. So, the High Council of the Judiciary on the proposal gives us a proposal, and we're just voting on this, for the record. The same one that's full of insinuation, the ugly words about our country, the only one, the most beautiful in the world, and that's the Republic of Serbia, we've shown how much we're worth both as people and as empathys as far as our environment is concerned, when the vaccines and everything else are concerned, the word one didn't say against this blogger, about a man who shows up on TV all the time and makes statements. It's okay to show up, but when he's got something to say. He's mostly got nothing to say, but he's promoting himself. I heard he was going to apply, that he was going to run for president. That would be phenomenal, to see how much this Mr. Blogger, who skipped one instance, namely, he was the judge of the Court of Justice, so, since he had the DOS party book, he flew over at the speed of light and came to the Court of Appeal and, imagine, no less than he worked on business, and these are war crimes. Speaking of war crimes, it should be said that the same one freed 11 KLA criminals who in 1999, from June to December, tortured and killed 80 civilians in a building in Gjilan, in the basement, but also captured 280 people. So, torture, rape. Now, the 11th was cleared by Mr. Majic. They were supposed to get 116 years in prison, and he set them free, so you see what can happen in the judiciary. Justice is an independent branch of power and as such all judges should be fair, dignified, honorable. I'm sure, and I always say that 98% are. There's always the weeds. Speaking of dolls, not to say I have something personal against this gentleman, I am not interested in the man at all, but I will read to you what the Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia say. Namely, they sent an open letter to the Court of Appeal, Mr. Miodrag Majic, in whom they want this supreme judge, as he calls himself, under the sign of the questionnaire, as he represents himself in public, to draw attention to the fact that problems with his super-egg and self-reglame leave behind, and that in this daily emphasis on his impeccable work, it is nice that a man thinks of himself, the mass doesn't think so, after all, he let these criminals out of prison and there's nothing more to add, I'll continue on him something different, but let's see what the Association of Judges says now – he should leave the insults at the expense of his colleagues, other judges. You will allow, says the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, that among the several thousand holders of the judicial functions of this state, there are still thinking people who deal with their work day by day, solve the problems of citizens in fair and legal judicial proceedings and, unlike those you know or recognize, think of Mr Majic, wait no moment from the top, nor on the side, to tell them how to judge. Let's just remember, unfortunately, either -- it didn't happen again, that some tycoons had both their judge and their prosecutor. It was like that, we all know. They continue to address Mr. Majic and say: “Please keep your metaphors and characters from the bass about rabbits and prides to be more and more prone and consider that other judges and prosecutors take their work far more seriously than your illustrations. And while you write bass, others write judgments. Do not defamation and slander the entire profession for a style figure, because these people have no income from receiving from the judge's and the prosecutor's salary." Why is this so important? Because Mr. Majic lives at the expense of the state, but he also has an NGO through which projects go, so money is earned. That's what we've been talking about. Let's move on, but this is what his colleagues are saying now. They work for wages only from their own country: “With such continued insults by colleagues and all your professions, you are destroying the trust of citizens in the judiciary and in your own very own way you are calling for non-compliance with the law, institutions and rule of law. ” "We are talking to you," the Association of Judges and Prosecutors says, "with a request that you keep your problems with super ego frustrations and an indescribable need for self-promotion between the cover of your current and future books, on the theatre boards in the plays in which you act, in an endless space of the Internet world where your character virtually lives, whom you earnestly try to present as the last protector of the fallen judiciary." You might think he's talking about a failed judiciary, he, who fired a thousand judges and prosecutors and his fellow signatories in 2009, ran out of work. In 2012, we brought all these people back to work, these honorable, normal people. And you know why they got fired? Just because they weren't alike, they didn't have a DOS party book. Guys, there are no party books now. The judiciary is an independent branch of power, and as such it must remain. Fair, dignified, honorable should be judged in the name of the people. Over. There are no party books. People, colleagues of Majic, say, from the Association, people professionals, judges and prosecutors, have been crossed over with you well-known lists just because they were not alike. You're a disgrace. In the most flagrant way, the law has been violated, and the Constitution of this country itself. All of this was, or what in the legal sense equally points to guilt, it had to be known, but you kept quiet. You didn't write, Mr. Majiæu. You didn't get your picture taken. You didn't tweet. You didn't blog. You didn't do anything. And yet, you took off. You took off abruptly, you flew from the judge of the Court of First Instance to the appeal. We remind you of your words that every government is trying to make the most of its mandate and to place in the most responsible positions people who are of its taste and measure and thus provide themselves with a dam against the law, that's what you said, and in the period when their rule passed. Is that why you, dear colleague Majic, from the seat of the municipal judge, with your then 40 years of life and nine years of judicial standing, were elected Judge of the Court of Appeal? A lot of illogicality, abnormality, but, my God, either – it didn't happen again. It didn't take you long, Mr. Majiæ -- they say from the Association -- that with external debt and responsibilities, like-minded people, you can figure out a way to try to discredit anyone who could spoil your plans and rock the foundations of your small, powerful empire. You've started to slander. You started, or rather, to continue your country and colleagues who dared to think differently about slanders abroad. You're a disgrace. It's a reflection of weakness, unrest and panic. We expected more from you. It's all said by the gentlemen of the Association. I just have to point out that this same Majic, remember when we passed Tijana's law, was against that law, that is when we brought amendments and additions to the Penal Code that prescribed a life sentence without parole. The gentleman was very dissatisfied, he thinks the rapist should be socialized. I'm thinking the same thing, but not the way he thinks. Also, apart from this Gjilan group, he made the verdict, remember just, it was the verdict about the Roma girl, the girl was 13 years old, she was raped, unfortunately and got pregnant, the child has been traumatized for life, and his judgment was, in fact, that the explanation goes that it's part of folklore, or that it's a cultural and ethnological heritage. Shame on him. Shame on him. The judges you choose, please, to work with honor and honesty. No party books are allowed, you work on behalf of the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5283	Thank you. National MP Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5284	Thank you, Your Honor. We have been accustomed in our country's political life for years to one part of the opposition and their very powerful media creating a negative atmosphere in our country that should probably tell us that violence is something that is perfectly legitimate for solving political problems and disagreements and that violence is one of the ways that these problems should be solved. The campaign, as we have spoken many times in this Parliament, has been going on for years, it is being looked at in different ways, primarily through the constant Satanisation and dehumanisation of the president of Serbia and his entire family, to the creation of a very negative campaign towards the state of Serbia where opposition politicians appear, wherever they appear, in our country, anywhere in the world, all the worst talk about their country. Whatever embassy they go to, they do the same thing when they make a statement to some media in the region, they also say the worst about their country. They are trying to catch, a European Parliamentarian, whom Serbia is not very dear to, so that on their behalf, in different European institutions, it also speaks worst of the state of Serbia, and when, for example, some nice things happen, when we open up some highway, when our economy is best in Europe, or when we make the best progress with the vaccination process, across Europe. Then parallel to that, you can always see dozens of imaginary affairs and negative news, spinning on their televisions, all with the goal of doing anything positive, which happens in our country, to kind of undo it. We have seen recent threats to lustration, even to ordinary citizens of Serbia, who are voting for SNS, so they are being sent a message, what will they do when all this is over, or that after they arrive at power, you will only be able to get away with cleaning. That's all we're used to, but what we're not used to, or what we shouldn't get used to, which wasn't part of political life in Serbia in the past years, is when everything I've listed is done by someone who's a representative of Serbia's justice system, or part of Serbia's judicial system. The justice system is there to guarantee every citizen the personal rights, freedom, security, legal certainty, and when someone who is the judge of the Court of Appeal, of course I am talking about Mr. Majic, that a statement in which he says we have reached the edge behind the violence. When we came to a debate like this in the Assembly, we came to the edge behind the violence. So, a statement that he, in practice, announces, or sends a message that this is something that is perfectly normal, so let's say he doesn't like what I'm saying, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and he thinks it's perfectly legitimate that there is violence behind it. So when this is done by someone who is part of Serbia's judicial system, it's very devastating. This is such a shame, that it would be scandalous if a porter, a municipal court in Serbia, had said something like this, let alone the Court of Appeals. Well, then he even keeps going, like this wasn't enough for him, so he wants to further blacken his country, so he says, unfortunately in this country, it's not rare for people to disappear, just because someone's pointing a finger at them. Without any evidence, without any judgment, by trampling out all legal postulates, conjectures, innocence, and anything he should never do, completely flat-out, says it's normal in our country to point only at someone, and that someone's gone. So, without any arguments, only with the goal of presenting to the greatest extent the black state of Serbia in the most negative way possible, and again what I said at the beginning, to create an atmosphere in which absolutely everything is allowed in such a country, and that you are engaged in violence. I've never, ever talked about Mr. Majic's activities and work so far, but after these scandalous statements, in which he's the most grounded, most likely involved in politics, speaking notorious lies and ordinary nonsense, I had to comment on it, and I really think it would be quite right, that if a man for some reason got tired of doing his job, he got tired of being a judge, that it was perfectly legitimate for him to quit and deal with politics, if he wanted to. We've been here, for years, pointing to, say, the case of former citizens' protector, Sasa Jankovic, who did some similar things, i.e. He wasn't doing his job, he was using state functions and resources for some personal campaign. They kept accusing us of running a hack against him, of not loving him, of drawing his target, and then it was a while ago, and it turned out that everything we said, that we were absolutely right, so his whole work, his whole job was reduced to just building up some future political career. So that's something that I absolutely don't justify, and I think it's legitimate, if he wanted to deal with politics that all of what he said wouldn't matter at all, or any of us would have commented on it, that's what some common politician, an individual, said, but when such scandalous statements say someone who's in such a function, it's something that can't go without comment. And what people need to know, and what's very important is that that statement didn't come by accident, that someone doesn't think it was spontaneous that it came to his mind, what I said at the beginning, is part of a very well-organized campaign involving a large number of people, which has been going on for years, and in which politicians and the media participate, as we see many individuals, unfortunately, individuals who should be doing a whole other job, and all that said was said with a clear goal, clearly and very well-coordinated, so that when we say Dragan Gilas, he doesn't want to say something personal, because he thinks it's too dirty to say it, then he's in charge of someone who's going to say it instead, and I repeat, that it's irrelevant, but when someone who's part of the justice system, it's an absolute shame. There's one more thing, there's one very specific need, to draw attention to yourself at any cost, and when you want to do that, then you have two options or you have to say and do something very smart or say and do something that's very stupid and scandalous and unacceptable. I think in Mr. Majic's case, I don't have to point out which side he went over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5285	Thank you. A folk letter with a nice last name, Milica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5286	Dear Mr Dacic, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, dear Mr Pantic. You will allow me first to congratulate Mrs Jasmini Vasovic, the election for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and to wish her endurance and consistency and not bias in making legal and correct decisions for our judicial system. The Supreme Cassation Court decides on extraordinary legal means, ensuring the equality of parties in the process, as well as the uniform application of rights in all courts throughout our country. That is why Mrs. Vasovic, not as small a burden as the first among the equals, and certainly we have in mind and the contribution we expect from her in the fight against corruption and, of course, according to today's oath, it serves only truth and justice. When we talk about today's agenda, about the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office and them, just like my colleagues in the National Assembly, I don't think we should be reminded of that famous legal norm from Dušan's code – all judges to judge by the law, not by fear, by the empire we. In which, in a core and unequivocal way, the independence of the Serbian judiciary was defined in the 14th century, so in 1349. Sixty years later, in fact in 2009, a catastrophic reform that cost Serbian citizens 44m euros in the Serbian judiciary, which left 836 judges and 75 deputy prosecutors out of work overnight. Let's just remember that on 18 December 2009, they found out that they were not on the lists in the new network of courts, although the Constitution guaranteed them the continuity of the judge's office. Let us also remind ourselves that at that time, the DS was in power and that Serbian President Boris Tadic was. Today in Serbia, the verdicts are passed without interference and influence by the ruling majority, and therefore the recent verdict, which has been made to the detriment of President Aleksandar Vukic. So about the expertise and skills and dignity of colleagues whose biographies we could read from the material delivered, he kept an account of the VSS, and we are certainly not going to enter the content of the same ones here. Once again, it should be pointed out that judges make judgments on behalf of the people. To remind all those who have graduated from law school, that in the first year of college we are certainly learning about the spirit of Montesco, in which the principle of power was founded. I would add that the serious discussion that we are having in this House, the mechanisms of parliamentaryism that are being applied, such as the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs, recently applied and the Institute of authentic interpretation, are all indications that this Parliament's meeting is seriously and responsibly doing its job. Serious work is being done by all state authorities headed by the president, Alexander Vukic. It's especially visible in the field of crime and corruption fighting, but also in the battle with the coronary virus. While a real war is being waged in the world between the great powers to obtain vaccines, Serbia is inoculating and immunising its population. That is why we must especially thank our friends from the world, especially China, with which the friendship of the last years has been firmly built by Aleksandar Vukic. We were all witnesses that all three previous months were constantly on successful vaccination, re-occurring and reporting both European and world media, and that Serbia's success was praised and spoken of by individual world leaders. In time, Serbia realised that the issue of vaccination was a matter of economic survival and adapted its activities to such circumstances. 2.9 million people have been vaccinated in Serbia so far, 1,170,000 of whom have been re-vaccinated. My opinion is that acquiring collective immunity is the only correct answer to the pandemic. So I appeal to all citizens to be vaccinated, because that's how we save our lives and our future. On the other hand, investment in the health system has not only helped to save people’s lives faster. The ambulances used to come from Cačka, from which I come, to Belgrade to the tertiary health care facility in two, two and a half hours. Today, the “Milos the Great” highway reduced that time to a little less than an hour, which is another benefit, a blessed benefit of building and putting into service the highway, not only for my city, but for all cities and local self-government along the highway “Milos the Great”. So, to conclude, uniform application of rights and equal law for all concerned are one of the postulates of the Serbian Progressive Party's policy, and that postulate should be made by the judges we choose today. In voting day, I will certainly support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5287	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5288	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a motion on the agenda for a decision on the election of judges who are elected for the first time in office. I want to point out right away that the procedure has been conducted in accordance with the law and in a clear, visible, transparent way. It is the holders of the judicial functions that aim to protect and protect the rights and freedoms of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course in accordance with the Constitution and the law. When we talk about the proposal for a decision on the choice of judges, when we talk about the Serbian judiciary, it is necessary to look at this subject through the prism of everything that has happened in the Serbian judiciary between 2000 and 2012, because in this way we can successfully locate the root of the problem and in one effective way access to solving existing problems in the system and in the area of justice, which the Serbian Progressive Party is doing in all other areas of social life for the benefit, interest and for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The expectations and hopes slowed down in the changes that took place in 2000 were absolutely betrayed by all the promises promised by members of the former regime, and promised to work to strengthen the rule of law, to work to strengthen democracy, to strengthen Serbian institutions. They did everything exactly the opposite and different, because they managed to bring the country to the brink of economic and political disaster. We can see how it was done specifically through the judicial reform that took place after 2008, in Serbia. Because this and such reform of the Serbian citizens' judiciary cost 44m euros. One thing is clear, and that is that the holders of the judicial functions during that period chose on the municipal committees of the Democratic Party and that their personal interests were above each policy and above the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A day of such reforms, citizens of Serbia and the Serbian judiciary are paying both in financial and professional terms today. I think there are no lawyers in Serbia who have not defined and seen the tragedy of such a reform in the area of the judiciary as a tragedy of the whole profession. At that time, something that had not happened in the history of the judiciary anywhere, which was that judges had also appointed judges who unfortunately passed away, and then Nata Mesarovic stepped forward and claimed that they had similar checks on each judge, and probably the reference for a judicial function at that time was only to own a membership card of the Democratic Party. Even the European Union saw justice reform in Serbia as a catastrophic reform at the time. It is good that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not forget all their political misdemeanors of former regimes, these misdemeanors that they had from 2000 to 2012, because they know Serbia's citizens very well that when someone tries to destroy justice, when someone destroys an army, which they were doing, when someone destroys the police, that their efforts, as they have tried to destroy Serbia. They didn't learn anything from it, they didn't learn from it all. Today they have no plan, no programme, no policy whatsoever, but only pathological hatred remains for Alexander Vukic, according to the Serbian Progressive Party and the pathological desire to continue to do what they did until 2012, which is to open secret accounts around the world and steal and rob state resources and kidnap the money of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There is a fundamental difference between us from the Serbian Progressive Party and between members of the former regime, because we are the ones who have managed to work and do much to strengthen the rule of law, we have managed to strengthen our economy and we are the ones who are adequately and effectively fighting for the protection of the vital state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia. It is a policy conducted by the Serbian Progressive Party and it is a policy that we will continue to implement in the future. I see they've been pointing backwards for weeks to try to prove to the Serbian citizens that it's not true what it is, which is that they've brought out tens of millions of euros from Serbia and stored that money in secret accounts all over the world. Finally, the time has come for Serbian citizens to get to know the truth about how former regime members led this country at times when half a million people were out of work, to make sure that all political misdeeds of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and former regime leaders were satisfied, and to see how and how they used their political functions to gain incredible wealth and how that is possible. It turns out that what we were saying in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is true, which is that Dragan Gilas did not enter politics as a rich man, but that at one point he comes out of politics as an incredibly wealthy man. Now that we have settled the state, when we have managed to consolidate public finances in this country, now they want to return to power without a choice, even though they are aware that even citizens in the elections will not continue to do what they did, which is to rob state resources, property and money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is an incredible fear and panic that was produced in that part of the opposition boycott and members of the former regime of the most important law that we adopted and brought into this assembly in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Law on the Origin of Assets and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to invite all the competent institutions, all judges to work on finding out the full truth about the political, business and financial malversions of former regimes, that we simply continue as the MPs to Serbia's citizens, first of all, whether someone is financially or medialy powerful, we are telling the truth about all their political, business and financial malversions and that we will not allow the various Gilas, Jeremic, Tadic, to occupy this country's coat of arms and this people, because at that moment from Serbia, simply, there will be nothing left. Unlike them, we from the Serbian Progressive Party have results. Since 2012, we have opened more than 700,000 new jobs and that is what Serbian citizens see. They see these results. We will continue to fight for making it possible for citizens to do what they, above all, deserve, and that is an even better standard of living. To conclude, I would like to point out that it is important for Serbian citizens to continue to trust and give support to the policy conducted by the Serbian Progressive Party headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, because we promoters also have both energy, will, desire and desire to fight for Serbia to continue to move unsustainably forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5289	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5290	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Pantic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is a democratically decorated country. For the Serbian Progressive Party, for our President Alexander Vukic and for our Government, the rule of law is high on the scale that Serbia needs to seek and which must be achieved. Of course, in order to exercise the rule of law and how a significant function has a judiciary, i.e. a judge. Today, the proposal of the High Judicial Council for the election of judges is on the agenda for the first time in office. It is 37 candidates for basic courts in seven cities, i.e. municipalities. First of all, I have to say that the procedure has been fully respected, that the Constitution and the law is fully respected and that the High Council of the judiciary, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, has made a proposal to the National Assembly for the selection of 37 candidates, delivering extensive biographies for each candidate individually. What I want first to point out is that the judges who are first elected to this judicial office and who in the day of the vote are elected honorably, responsibly and honestly carry out the judicial duty and the judicial function, because it is responsible and a very serious function, to judge impartially and objectively, to be independent of any pressure or influence, but not to be independent of the law and the Constitution, because they make their judgments on behalf of the people. I hope that it will respect the basic principles, and the principles of efficiency, and the principles of economicity and the principles of the trial within a reasonable period, because it is certainly in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to restore trust in the judiciary and, of course, to satisfy justice within a reasonable period of time. What I must also point out is that in this way human resources are strengthened in judicial institutions, i.e. courts, and judges by best knowledge and skill, and in accordance with the law and the Constitution, they will act on each case and make their decisions. On this occasion, I can't help but mention what happened by 2009, or I can't even mention the destroyers of everything that existed in Serbia, and above all, the system's institutions, and among them, of course, there's the judiciary, as well as how they destroyed it. My colleagues have already stated that in just one day, thousands of judges and prosecutors have lost their jobs and that they have only met one, the only criterion, which is belonging to the Democratic Party. Of course, Serbia's destroyers are depicted in the image and in the Sundays of Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, all of what they did, did against the law and against the constitution. That is why the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has decided that the re-election procedure of judges has not been made in accordance with the law, has not been done in accordance with the Constitution. Judges were also returned to prosecutors, but this cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia 44m euros. The haughtiness of the destroyer of the yellow, tycoon business and yellow octopus is depicted in the image of Dragan Gilas, whose government served only for personal gain and not for the care of Serbian citizens and institutions that are very important for the functioning of a state, of course, did not bother. The judges left three and a half million unsolved cases at the time of the government of the yellow tycoon company. In addition, a yellow tycoon company, besides cutting judges and prosecutors, has made a catastrophic network of courts, many courts have moved out, made judicial units available to citizens so far away that, for example, from Priboj municipality, from which I come, I have moved the municipal court to Prepolje, so that some of them and four times cross the state border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, have had to cross to the nearest court in order to achieve their justice, that is, to appear before the court. Except they didn't think of citizens, participants in court proceedings, they didn't think about judges, prosecutors, administrative workers who had to go through a network of courts to other cities and, of course, to pay travel expenses to all of them. These travel expenses to some of them, which were administrative workers, were almost twice the salary they received per month. So the yellow tycoon company, through the network of courts, rationalized God's courts. Of course, all of this the Serbian Progressive Party corrected by coming to power in 2012. In 2013, when the minister of justice was Nikola Selakovic, a new network of courts was established and many courts were returned to where they actually existed until they came to power the destroyers, and they, for God's sake, lasted – for 12 years. These destroyers have reduced the courts from 138 basic courts to 34 basic courts. So much for their concern for the citizens. That the yellow tycoon, Dragan Gilas, was absolutely not interested in citizens, nor were they satisfied with their needs both before the court and other institutions, according to the fact that there were at least 30,000 legally invisible persons in their time in the Republic of Serbia. They were mostly Roma. What does that mean, legally invisible faces? This means that these persons were not enrolled in the birth certificates and that according to these persons, their basic human rights, such as birthrights, health care rights, social protection rights, labour rights, were destroyed in the most harsh way possible. So, the uncircumcised human rights in the most harshest possible way were violated, because Dragan Gilas absolutely didn't care about any citizen, and especially not about Roma. Sam admitted that he forced them to move, not because of them, and put them in tin containers, but because of the location. Of course, by coming to the SNS and this injustice, and ultimately, we have corrected the violation of the basic human rights of the Roma by passing the law on amendments and additions to the Law on non-partisan procedure, and the largest number of these citizens are now enrolled in the parent books of the born and are thus exercising all other rights and are equal to the law, as are all other citizens. Of course, Serbia's judicial destroyers, painted in character, work, actions by Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and others, were absolutely not paying attention to what conditions judges, prosecutors and even what state the infrastructure is in. I must say, since the arrival of the SNS, more has been done today than in the last 70 years when it comes to infrastructure. The largest judicial institution and the pride of Serbia's Court of Justice in Belgrade have been fully reconstructed and restored. The Belgrade war crimes court, which was located at 14 locations at the time of the yellow tycoon government, is now renovated, has 105 courts and is located in one place. A brand-new Criminal Court and the Commercial Court were built in the Zlatibor County. In Raška municipality, after 30 years, the first residential unit was built, and that housing unit is just the court building. Therefore, building infrastructure and how important it is also from the point of view of favourable conditions for the work of judges, but also from the point of view of citizens, because the judges will be more often able to order a trial, and citizens will come to justice in a faster and more efficient way. When it comes to the judicial system, like all other systems that have strengthened since the arrival of the SNS, in the coming period certainly, and by selecting these judges, who will be elected for the first time in the judicial office, we expect further huge steps in all possible segments of society, because this is SNS policy and this is the policy of our President Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5291	Thank you. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5292	Dear Chairman, the honourable representative of the VSS, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, at the very beginning of my presentation, I must point out the fact that the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children in voting day, will support these proposals as well as so far. I feel personal satisfaction and happiness that young people get a chance and get a chance to express everything they've been trained for and show that justice and justice in our country must apply to everyone and everyone. Speaking of which, today began solemnly. Mrs Jasmina Vasovic took an oath, president of the Supreme Cassation Court. As in previous days and today, in the moment when Mrs Vasovic endured, i.e. Here she discussed, presented her first impressions and talked about some topics on the way along the way, and at the same time she continued the campaign against her for the past few days and a certain part of the people of the former DS continued with the attacks and attacks on her. Mrs. Vasovic was also the topic of the attack last week, so even one broadcast on one media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas was a minor against her. You've had a chance to see and hear three people on that show discuss, give their grades, conclude, misrepresent her in every way possible and try every result, succeed in discrediting her. What is particularly worrying is the fact that some people mentioned here many times, as people who work directly against the Serbian government's policies and work directly against our country, participated in the show. I'm not talking about one judge who's been mentioned here many times. I think my fellow MPs well, thoroughly and in detail explained everything about his indemnity, but I can't help but look back at the fact that a Mrs. Marinika Tepic, who is on the payroll of Dragan Gilas, at his firm, also used this show to present a series of lies, lies and deceptions. She also took advantage of the opportunity to resent Mrs Vasovic, but I am also convinced that in the coming period, one of these judges, whose proposals today are in front of us, will pass through the warm rabbit under the command and command of Dragan Djilas. When we talk about a whole show dedicated to debauchery of anyone who doesn't think maybe like them or doesn't work the way they would like it, I think everyone in Serbia is aware of it. What concerns Serbia's citizens today is the fact that employees at Dragan Dilas's company, Marinika Tepic, justify their money by choosing from day to day a second target who will be attacked by some lies, also trying to discredit it. Her next victim of such an attack is Mr. Selakovic. So, for days we've had an organized chase against Mr. Selakovic in that manner that they've already practiced countless times so far. So the mantra is exactly the same. It moves in circles, whether from Jovanica, so when they get the verdict they got, like that Alexic, that they were telling the truth and that they falsely accused Alexander Vukic and Andrej Vukic, then they transferred to another topic. When that topic breaks with truth, there's no excuse, there's no confession that they're getting along, but they're going to go to a third and so on. Now it's their turn again, Savamala, and now only another man is the target, and all as an indirect attack on President Alexander Vukic. It's just amazing how much Marinika Tepic has been retangling everything that Dragan Djilas has given her, even when Mr Selaković invited Marinika Tepic to go to the polygraph together and determine who's telling the truth, and who's lying, behold, she took the steps of Dragan Djilas, so she agrees with everything, only the polygraph doesn't fit. Now you have a situation that Dragan Djilas or Marinika Tepic or anyone, Borko Stefanovic, anyone from theirs, call, the parties can tell absolutely any lie and any untrue and hide behind it – well, we know that it is, but we have no evidence and we will not have a polygraph to prove it. Let Serbian citizens themselves assess how hypocritical this is and how much this proves that when they have no result, no argument, and rich people have no programme, as a party, the only thing left for them is naked hatred, nebulosis, fiction and defilement of people who are in every respect and sense far more successful, much fairer and much more attached to our country, so they prove it by fighting daily for progress and for a better life for both Serbia and all its citizens wherever they live. When it comes from people who claimed to be a chicken farm in Morovic that the marijuana plantation comes from Marinika Tepic, who, imagine, even had to react to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, because one mounted video was used on its Twitter profile, when it comes from people who can't tell a single truth, Serbian citizens are rightly asking themselves -- as long as they're ready to go and what's next? It all comes down to the fact that if Alexander Vucic is not guilty, then the SNS officials are guilty, so all the haika on Nikola Selakovic is. It seems to me that Bratislav Gasic is going through a warm rabbit these days, so we'll see who's next and nowhere's the only one, even if it's any indication of any evidence. All lies, nebuloses, fictions and lies. I see that these days the SNS is absolutely guilty of everything, so now it's wrong for Dragan Gilas to have some kind of protest for better environmentalism, or how they're already defining it in his media or on social networks, he hasn't given any effect they wanted, so now it's SNS' fault that he wants such protests to spin and dissuade. Wait, guys, is there one thing in this country that you're not going to accuse the SNS of? Is it possible that you are literally to blame for all of Alexander Wolf? Here, today it's raining, I just expect one of these experts to tweet about how Alexander Vukic is guilty of a rainstorm in Belgrade. Every word and every sentence is measured here, and now all you care about is that someone was telling the truth, and that's that the representatives of the coalition or the alliance participated in the protest, I don't know what they're called anymore, the representatives of the Democratic Party. To avoid lying to Alexander Mirkovic or any of the Serbian government officials or SNS officials, here is Zoran Lutovac at the protest. DS or Marionette President Dragan Gilas participated in this protest. In addition, various political organisations that participated in last year's elections and who also participated in the protest in Serbia's political life and broadcast the protest on their social networks live. Also tenently, a direct-controlled TV show, Dragan Gilas, broadcast the protest live. And if you say that there is no politicisation, let the citizens evaluate and if you tell me that it was just about environmentalism, and where is the end of your hypocrisy when you've done nothing for that ecology, except that action "Let's Clean Serbia" that turned into a clean budget, where you've embezzled millions and put them in your pockets. Now it's our fault that we're telling the truth, so there's just a question being raised just as long as and for what else are you going to accuse us of? I will end with this, what has been happening in recent days, as well as increasingly frequent attacks on different officials, both the governments and SNS officials are nothing more than a naked chase and attempts to throw themselves into the shadows or somehow mask Dragan Gilas' affair and the fact that citizens have finally learned that in more than 17 countries there are over 68m euros in national money, the money of all Serbian citizens. As much as we try to hide these lies, the topic will not work, because on that barrier we, first of all, will stand the SNS MPs who will insist on behalf of the citizens to find out how and how he got that money, because the citizens deserve to know it, deserve to finally get an answer and confirm that it is impossible from the mayor's salary, the director of some office and the minister to get to the 25m-euro fortune in real estate alone. For candidates and those wonderful people on the agenda today, I just want to wish a lot of happiness and success, courage, because they will probably as well as Mrs Vasovic, as anyone in our country who is only responsible for their work will go through one kind of lynch. I want them to remain determined in their intention to endure, to judge by law and thus protect each citizen of Serbia and thus protect our country, because we do not have another country, and let them not be surprised that just as Mr. Zeljko Radovanovic, director of the Money Laundering Directorate, will be covered by a future criminal application by Dragan Gilas only because they acted by law and only because they listened to the letter of the law and worked under the law. Let them not be surprised, and let them remain consistent with the law and the letter of the law, which is the most important, for in this way they will keep what is most holy to all of us, which is our land. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5293	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5294	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that today, the working part of the National Assembly has begun with one solemn act, which was sworn in by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It certainly is something that is nice, especially if the continuation of the work applies to the debate and choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and to a lot of what we have to say and about what kind of temptations the judges are waiting for when they are elected, when they take their oath and that they must have a lot of perseverance and courage to resist all the pressures that one such call and job pulls away. Currently in Serbia, we have the greatest pressure not here in the National Assembly against the holders of judicial functions, not from the government of the Republic of Serbia, not from the president of the Republic of Serbia, it was in some times, perhaps earlier during the former regime. This is also the subject of the famous reform of the judiciary that was implemented in 2008 and 2009. Here we have one pressure on both the MPs and the bearers of the judicial and prosecutorial functions of the so-called so-called. the intellectual elites of the Republic of Serbia. It is the elite, which we are elected by the government of Serbia, and the president of Serbia, elected by the citizens, who are called a credentials of Serbia. I guess in so much of their self-lovingness, they forget that we do know something a little bit, that perhaps for some time we can read something different from them that are read, much smarter, much more capable, much better than we are, so with that little modest knowledge that we can collect by screaming a page maybe a day or two we have to ask something and a part of that intellectual elite. Once again, we had a very ugly comment on the work of the National Assembly and the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in a show where my colleagues and here have touched – it doesn't matter, we politicians have the right to write and speak about us, but it surprises me when a member, or a man who holds a judicial office, says the following – in the selection of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, indicates that the procedure in the election of President Jasmina Vasovic, who, as he says, is unrecorded so far, asks the question – whether it is normal that there is only one candidate, Majic asked, noting that it is not only a person's question, because we have no information about her, but that this question is the procedure of whoever is in that place, said Judge Majic. He became a judge in 2000 on JUL's proposal, I don't mind, that was the time. The Justice Committee has proposed judges, Majic entered the JUL quota, proposed, elected, but I just don't understand why he's hiding it. Is it because now it belongs to another intellectual elite and somehow it's embarrassing for him? He's disrupting his biography. So he's a relapse of a part of our constitutional order then, there's no need to be ashamed to hide it, but then he can't pretend to be anything smarter and better than us, but he's the same as us. Now watch out, we're talking procedure. One part of the procedure interests me very much. The second time I saw him in the National Assembly, since the application of this Constitution, is that the Commission, which proposed the candidate, then the candidate, now president of the Supreme Cassation Court, has looked at all the documents and obtained the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court on the candidate for election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Which Majic did not say that Nata Mesarevic did not have an opinion, and in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law of Judges says it is mandatory. Only we're illiterate, so they hoped we didn't know how to read it. There was no opinion of the general session of the Supreme Cassation Court, because he began his work on 1 January 2010, and Nata Mesarevic was elected in November 2009. And I didn't see here in the National Assembly, when we talk about the procedure of the proposal of the High Council of Justice, but Nata Mesarevic proposed that the Committee of Justice under the old Constitution, that the government as a judge under the new Constitution and then, of course, Judge Majic would say - this procedure that we conducted under the Constitution was violated, and that other one where no one, not even that person who, the only authority in the constitution, was responsible for proposing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, did not do so in front of the MPs, but suggested Nata Mesarevic, Bosko Ristic. And what's that paper hiding? They hid it, we can't find it today, so Judge Majic will talk about the procedure. Furthermore, it also surprises me, I am a people's messenger in this congregation and in this hall, and I am a people's messenger when I go home. I'm a national MP until I get to my apartment. Well, I guess the judge is also the holder of a judicial function wherever he is, in any public place, and here in the National Assembly and on the street, and on the television show, and he can't make two excuses, because it's a play, I guess, in the hope that we're the credentials of Serbia who's semi-literate. He cannot say under the pretext of judicial independence, independence and freedom of speech, expression of opinion. He says this is what I'm saying as Myodrag Majic, not as a judge of the Court of Appeal. If so, why was he announced on the show "The Impression of the Week" as judge of the Court of Appeal? It doesn't go either way, because Miodrag Majic, if it wasn't for the Court of Appeal, wouldn't be worth anything. And it's not worth much anyway, but she's still a judge and I respect his judicial function, and as he respects his judicial function, we'll talk about it a little bit. It's not just the laws that determine what anyone can or can't do. As MPs, we have the Rules of Procedure, we have the Code of Conduct, and judges also have some of their own ethical codes that the VSS has established, published in the 'Official Messenger' 96 of 2010, so it was not announced by the authority of Alexander Vukic and the regime of Alexander Vukic, but by the previous regime. Majic probably also wrote it, counting on the trust that Nata Mesarevic had in him, because he quickly reached the Court of Appeals, and the document, among other things in Article 2, says – the judge in performing his duties in court and out of court reflects stronger public trust and parties in the proceedings and impartiality of judges and courts. So in order to comply with their code, the judges inserted and developed Article 154 closer. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the political functioning of the judges is prohibited – the law regulates what other functions, jobs or private interests are associated with the judicial function, so it also states in Article 6(2). The Ethics Code – the judge must avoid participation in political activities that may threaten the impression of impartiality. So in the last position of Article 2, it is said – the judge is obliged to avoid situations that could justifiably raise doubts about his impartiality, and we are talking about the show where he was, said counterpart Mirkovic – Marinika Tepic. I would understand that it was one of the judges of the Court of Appeal, one judge of the VKS or perhaps more judges of the appeals courts because there are more, so that some of their legal arguments for some progress in the work of the judiciary exchanges, no, this is a pure political show where only political assessments of certain events and things are given in the Republic of Serbia. Nothing else. In order to show the senselessness of Judge Majic as judge of the Court of Appeal, I need another part of the Ethics Code to read. So this is a binding document for all judges. It was established by the VSS and published in "The Official Messenger". So every judge must know him. The judge must refrain from mistrials, as well as from proceedings which may violate public confidence in the court. Okay. What we will now do with Majic's statement – Serbia's judiciary is operating in the atmosphere of survival and fear that in such conditions it is impossible to achieve a function entrusted to the judiciary in a democratic society. We are being attacked that we MPs are violating the independence and independence of judges, and if you read what the holders of judicial functions are doing, they are trying to create a mistrust among citizens in the holders of judicial functions in our courts and therefore, and even selecting us as representatives of the people at all. The judge is required to maintain the reputation of the court and the judge's office through a written spoken word. Seems to me there's been some kind of judge and prosecutor's association. As a person, the judge is exposed to a permanent court of the public, freely and voluntarily accepts the personal limitations imposed on him by the judge's office. Well, I'm sorry, Miodrag Majic gave up some civil rights by taking a judge's oath and laid down restrictions that he does not respect now, which is that he gives political views and political assessments. As an example, Serbia has become a country of absurdity, here comedies make rules, and from geniuses they make criminals and fools. That's what one Court of Appeal judge said. I just don't know who the comedian was, who he was thinking of, better name him. Did he mean a colleague of Martinovic's, of me, of someone here, of the Prime Minister, of the President of the Republic, of the Ministers, perhaps of counterpart Marijan Risticevic? But I also don't know if he thought of the genius as Dragan Gilas? Here, on that same show, Marinika Tepic defended Gilas by saying that we are dragging Gilas through the mud and making him a fascist. That's what no one here has said. No one here has accused him of fascism, I have accused Majic of a verdict that is the prelude to fascist ideology, but Gilas has not accused anyone of fascism. And the fact that it's a ball, that's the worst kind. You know, when someone has that kind of money, they can't justify where they got that money, they sure as hell haven't earned it in accordance with the law. So, they've been doing everything from the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court to what the National Assembly is doing. So also for the judgments we've read, it's not a problem for someone to read a verdict even though they don't know who they are, so now I'm going back to the beginning of the Serbian credentials that are now in power, that we don't know whose verdicts are. "They spoke exclusively of me during the election of the first judge in the country, in the presence of a representative of the VSS who should protect all judges, not just me." Maybe he'd be right, but first of all, he has to respect that VSS, every fellow judge, every verdict that's been written, every position of the Supreme Cassation Court, so he can get that full protection he's got. One more thing, it is very difficult to defend Judge Majic, because here we are talking, not about some discretionary rights of judges in the trial, but about material evidence and facts that no one can dispute. There was also a professor at the Faculty of Law, where she tried to bring down the National Assembly to the end, so on the question - is it normal to comment on and read court rulings in the assembly, Bajovic said it was difficult to make a distinction where freedom of speech ceases, and hate speech begins, of course not to be similar to one parliament, and perhaps it was the intention to disenfranchise the institution, she said, noting that there were other problems. Now I have to ask the question, are the trials public? They did. I think only trials when it comes to trusting children have a certain degree of public opinion, not complete, and all others from litigation, to criminal proceedings are public trials. Someone's trying to convince me that some verdict that's justifiable, ended, can't be the subject of debate in the National Assembly because it's not normal for someone. I say the one who says that is not normal. There are several reasons why this is so, but one of the most important is that the National Assembly adopts laws according to which judges and judges judge. That we are the ones who determine the legal framework for the work of the courts, not entering what judgments they will make. One of the more important reasons is that if we notice that our laws that we make in some part are not fully understood or correct, they should be changed. But in every way possible, they will try to make out of the National Assembly something that does not represent citizens, or if it represents citizens, that it is Serbia's credentials and that they are the cultural elite and intellectual elite that is now in power by mistake of the people. Most important, they do not hesitate to humiliate the National Assembly and the People’s Messengers. "We have created a society of mutual hatred, polarised to the extreme limits, and when we reach this debate in the Assembly, we have reached the edge behind which violence is going," judge Miodrag Majic estimates in the "Sunsight of the Week" of the Court of Appeal. Now, so those of us who didn't threaten anyone, we didn't attack anyone, just because of the debate we're having as a result, we'll have violence. It's like a colleague Martinovic hit himself at a board session, and Bosko Obradovic didn't do it. It's like he hit himself here in front of the chair table, and Bosko Obradovic didn't do it. It was as if Marijan Risticevic had hit himself in front of the Assembly, and it was not a click gathered around Boško Obradovic. It's like Maya attacked herself in her own cabinet, and Bosko Obradovic didn't do it. It is as if we were trying to set the National Assembly on fire for Ivandan, and it is not a click supported by Judge Majic and led by Dragan Djilas. What kind of violence are they talking about? Is it about that violence of a tabloid that drew a sniper rifle pointed at the president's chest? Are they talking about that violence? Or are they talking about that violence, that intellectual elite, when Brkic calls on Alexander Vukic's youngest son to be tried even though he is now just over three years old? Where were those intellectual elites when the MPs of the former regime wore gallows around Belgrade? When were they waiting for their new fellow paintball rifles? Did Majic think about that violence? I don't know who else he might think about. Probably about that. Or is he trying a tragic case of a former colleague who hasn't been involved in politics for three years, I won't mention his name for respect of his family, that such a tragic case has been misused for political purposes. My people, that's morbid. It's without any dignity, it's the bottom of human dignity. There's nothing worse, nothing lower in politics. It's not even for politics. But that's what Majic is going to write, to cause suspicion, to scare people. Just one question I asked him here, he didn't answer on that show, just one. I said that in one part he might have been right, when he said – there are dangerous links between politicians and judges, but he did not answer me how dangerous the connection between the judges and the ambassadors who are here is. That when he answers me and gives me an answer as to why he thinks so and whether his NGO is funded by one of these embassies, then I might start to change my mind about him, and like this, I'm sorry, I'm going to keep a very bad opinion about him as long as he stops hiding first that he was elected to the JUL's proposal for the first judicial term and to answer this question about how dangerous the connection between the judges and the ambassadors of other countries is.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5295	Thank you. I am informing the MPs that we are no longer in direct transmission. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is about 60 minutes. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5296	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Mr Pantic, as representative of the High Council of the Judiciary, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, of course I will support in the day of voting all these decisions concerning the election of new judges, because I think it is very important that in the next period in the basic courts and in the King, and in Leskovec, and in Aleksinac, and in Somboro, and in Novi Pazar, Užica, and Pozarevec we have elected judges who will congratulately, in accordance with the Constitution and the law to do their job, who will do their job as we expect from Mrs Jasmina Vasovic, whom I congratulate on this occasion. She took an oath here today as president of the Supreme Cassation Court. Indeed here in the afternoon we had a beautiful picture, a beautiful oath and representatives of both the judges and the Supreme Cassation Court and the appeals courts in Belgrade and other courts in Serbia, where we had a truly one presentation of the honest judges headed by Mrs. Jasmina Vasovic, of whom we expect in the coming period, as well as of these judges we are discussing today, to do what they do, to judge on behalf of the people, on behalf of the Serbian state. On the other hand, I have to look back on both the topical and the information I received from the MUP, from Mr. Alexander Vulin. As you know, on behalf of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children" on 16 March, I requested a notice and an explanation from the competent institutions regarding the conduct of the competent state authorities regarding allegations of the existence of an account by Dragan Gilas in Mauritius, Switzerland and other countries. Today I received an answer that I would like to share on behalf of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children" with the citizens of Serbia. "The interior ministry is acting on a request to collect the necessary information from the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade regarding Dragan Gilas and legal entities that can be associated with him. After the checks have been carried out, the senior public prosecutor in Belgrade will make an appropriate public prosecutorial decision regarding the further proceedings in question. “ This is just proof that the Ministry of Interior, led by Minister Alexander Vulin, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is responsible and courageously leading both their fight against the mafia and together with judicial institutions are conducting numerous investigations. A number of investigations have been carried out, including this investigation involving Dragan Gilas, who succeeded over 68m euros that he took from Serbian citizens to deploy to 53 of his accounts in 17 states. To remind me, the 68m euros is only part of that 619m-euro money he took from Serbian citizens as a minister, as Belgrade Mayor. On the other hand, it's very interesting that at all these times when we have serious results of the fight against the mafia, when investigations are being conducted against Dragan Gilas, a justified investigation, that we have organized attacks by acts of politicians led by Gilas from opposition ranks, works of the tycoon media and actions of other factors in our country, we have attacks on all those who are just leading the fight against the mafia and who are conducting these investigations. So almost every day we have attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, then these days we have attacks on Mrs Jasmina Vasovic, who has just taken an oath as president of the Supreme Cassation Court. Then we are witnesses, which were spoken of by my dear colleagues, attacks on the director of Bratislava Gasic's Security and Information Agency, because BIA is doing its job in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and BIA is one of the key links in this fight against the mafia. Then our Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic, who is a member of the Serbian government, is implementing a policy to preserve our state and national interests. Then whenever you do something decent and brave from the High Council of the Judiciary, from the courts, prosecutors, in the fight against the Mafia, you are immediately targeted at the attack of Dragan Gilas, his media and his associates. Then the object of the attack is the Money Laundering Authority, then the object of the attack is the Tax Administration, and then the criminal police of the MUP. Well, my fellow citizens, whoever says something against Dragan Gilas, whoever says something against the mob, whenever a member of the Security-Informative Agency, the Ministry, the Prosecutor's Office, does his job, is exposed to the worst possible attacks in both printed and electronic media and social networks. But on the one hand, I have, if I may say, one joy, the joy is that the citizens of Serbia now know clearly who is a thief and a criminal and who leads the mafia into Serbia, which are institutions that do their job with honor and courage. Now the citizens of Serbia know once again that all those who have been attacked, who lead the state institutions, very important, listed just now, who are attacking Dragan Gilas with his associates are actually those people who are doing their job with honor and courage and who are fighting the mafia. I know that neither Mrs. Vasovic nor President Vukic nor Director of Gasic, nor Minister Vulin, nor Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and all others in the government of Serbia who have their task in the fight against the mafia, and Justice Minister Maja Popovic and the Republic Prosecutor, and you from the High Council of the judiciary will stop neither Dragan Djilas nor Dragan Šolak nor Vuk Jeremic, nor Boris Tadic, nor Vela Belivuk, nor any of their associates in this honest and courageous fight against the mafia. Because I know that the state institutions today are responsible and honestly, courageously and honestly doing their job and responding to both the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia and giving us accurate, accurate data, timely, as we have today the case with this information which is to the MPs, i.e. To the citizens of Serbia, because we are representatives of the people here, directed by Minister Alexander Vulin, as the first man of the Ministry of the Interior. So, finally, I want this opportunity, and this is no phrase, none of these are unfounded thesis, full support to be given to this opportunity and the Ministry of the Interior, and to the Security and Information Agency, and to you from the High Council of the judiciary, prosecutors, all courts in Serbia, regardless of whether it is Leskovec, King, Belgrade, Novi Sad or Subotics, in this fight against the mafia, in this fight against crime and corruption. Because all we see today, all of these results, all of which we see the successes of world scales as regards the fight against the crown of the virus, as far as vaccination is concerned, as far as the growth of our economy is concerned, which is why we are the first in Europe and among the best in the world, all of this would not be without the government of Serbia and President Alexander Vukic. But in order for this to continue, we must end up cutting down corruption in our country and root out the mafia as far as the mafia can root out. What you, representatives of state institutions, who are tasked with fighting the mafia, what you must and can, or what we Members of the SNS ask you to be brave, to be honest, to be unbreakable, not to succumb to any influences on the outside or on the inside, and to overcome these judges, the wicked judges, which my colleagues have spoken of, such as Judge Majic and others. You're most of them. As Serbian citizens voted in the elections, and we know what the political will of Serbian citizens is both here and across Serbia, so I know that the bell that exists in the judiciary, in the prosecutor's office and in the police has almost been eradicated. Give that little thing that's left of the doll, you insiders who run these institutions, don't let that weed grow, but master it, clean it, process it. So don't let it win with honor, because Serbia can go on only if there are strong judicial institutions, so all this is important what we discussed today. Serbia can only move on if it is strong and protected. Serbia can only be strong and protected if it has strong police, military and security services. That is why today, all these days, we have organized criminal attacks on both BIA and Director Gasic, both at the Ministry of Interior and Minister Vulin, and on the MPs here and on our parliamentary group led by Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. That is why we have these attacks on both the listed state institutions and security services, both the Serbian government and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and above all we have, by criminals, mobsters and their media, daily attacks on President Aleksandar Vukic. Finally, I support all of you, the congratulated representatives of the state institutions that work in the interest of the Serbian state, the citizens of Serbia, on behalf of all the peoples who live in the Republic of Serbia, because only everyone together respecting the Constitution, and led by Alexander Vukic, our president, can eradicate corruption, defeat the mafia in Serbia. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5297	Thank you. National MP Ivan Ribaq. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5298	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Pantic, dear colleagues and fellow citizens of Serbia, I would first and foremost like to congratulate all of our fellow Islamic faith citizens, the great holiday of Ramadan, and to spend it in health, harmony and love. I'm going to say something about the motion for a decision on the election of judges who were first elected to the judge's office, which was submitted by the High Council of the Judiciary. The proposal attached clearly shows that all candidates meet, moral and professional qualities to carry out such an important job, and that the candidates have successfully passed exams for judges who are first elected. Given the candidate's résumés, I have found that successful professionals who have completed an adequate formal education, passed judicial exams, completed traineeships necessary to carry out such a high duty. It should be pointed out that most of them participated in not seminars, training, design, strategies, projects, which clearly confirms that it is about people who are willing to expand their views, their knowledge and experience, and that they are perfecting themselves in their profession. The rule of law and rule of law are the civilization's achievements that Serbia cultivates and is constantly improving by the strict principle of dividing the authorities into executive, legislative and judicial, which was long since defined by Charles Montescia, in the book of the Spirit of Law. Our citizens find with their support this government has long passed the time when politics had a primate over the law, and some judges were elected on the basis of party books, cousins, godfathers, or any other links. Today, any elected judge can freely and professionally do his job without fear of pressure, blackmail and threats, which were exposed by political and mafia circles between 2000 and 2012. One example that confirms my earlier claim is the verdict of the former president of the Municipality of Grock and a member of our party, which says no one is privileged or spared from the hand of justice in Serbia. With future judges I can only wish for long and successful work along with a quote from the epic song Uroš and Mrnjavčevići to judge neither by the grandmother, nor by the uncles, but by the justice of the god of truth. The future judges are expected to do their best, respecting the Constitution and the laws of our country and to support the other two branches of government and the general public, at least while the ruling nomenclature is behind the state helm. It is not often that someone will decide that from the position they will take, it is the position of the judge, decided to deal with politics, as it once was indirect, and now it is directly done by the distinguished judge, Mr Majic, which is again for us as the ruling party legitimately and freely, because this state and this government are primarily democratic and maximumly free and in it everyone can express their opinion. For God's sake, if it were as authoritarian as it is spoken and autocratic, would Mr Majic, along with his political equalist, Mrs Tepic, on one show, not to advertise now, be able to present her and her political programme, which is based solely on the demeaning, humiliating, demeaning of her own country, our people and government. However, respected future judges, if you choose to take that political path, through fighting in the political arena, but not as a politician, but as a civil servant, you must know that those positions have a specific weight. For this reason, I ask the D.A.'s Attorney General's Office to call for an informative interview, to be held accountable, or as it is already called by the legal speaker, the Honorable Judge Majic to examine the circumstances he wrote in his tweet, to quote – that he is not a fan of swimming in a river where he clearly alluded to the death of a late colleague, which indirectly insinuated a new authority on some individuals from it and that they may be somehow involved in this tragic act. If that were said by someone who has nothing to do with politics, someone who has nothing to do with state institutions, or authority, and that would even be suspicious, but when the Honorable Court of Appeals declares it, it's very indicative, it brings significant unrest into our people, please listen, for these circumstances, for two reasons. First, let's see if anyone really has anything to do with this case in power, which is completely absurd for a healthy man, and secondly, that they get naked and see who's using everything as a weapon to fight this government. What a disgusting invention, slander, lies like drugs in a henhouse, Morovic, such as the brother of the President of the Republic trading narcotics, which is already a clear verdict that this is a lie and that they stop using such disgusting lies to fight political opponents. In that show, we also heard that the Honorable Judge Majic, said that he was not concerned with politics but that he was commenting on the visa of the judicial system, and then after a few minutes, respected Mrs Tepic, the same one I read today in the newspaper said that all women's sexes who got a job in Jagodina and work in the public sector had a job over the bed, which is a big shame. It also says after a few minutes that very often the Honorable judge is heard, that they are exchanging information, that they are making certain conclusions and that they are working together to bring down this power. We also heard that respected judges and their semi-political organizations, where a member often visits foreign embassies, where they receive money for certain projects, and he says it's no big deal, that other civil servants do so, which doesn't exactly correspond to the truth. State officials go there, go on a mission, for some meeting, legitimately, but if he goes as a physical person to get money from the embassy, it's not very desirable. Besides, I'd ask him what would happen if someone from the U.S. judiciary, from the U.S. justice system, went, for example, to the Russian embassy to get some money for a particular project? Would the political and security establishment of the United States then look kindly upon the situation? In this show, we could also clearly note that the distinguished judge is disgusted and dissuasive of how parliamentarians express themselves, with the keen support and climate-headed Mrs Tepic, and that neither she nor she has mentioned the opposition action of the united forces of the political, our unsuspecting people, stressing the unsanitary and not the political enemies, as Marinika Tepic called us, because we do not view them as enemies, who, apart from being indirectly and the people who chose us in the most harsh, worship us with all the worst possible insults. That's what they do to the president of the state, we see what Dragan Gilas called him, I don't even want to say it. It's the only thing we don't blame them for, because we find that it's their general mode of conduct and the way in which they fight politically. Because often they talk to each other like that, alone with themselves. We see Vuk Jeremic speaking to his political colleagues, calling them "a pack of spikes". But let's put all this aside, attribute it to the impotence, attribute it to their ignorance, the lack of programs, the lack of a plan, the lack of a clear political platform with which they would stand before the people and gain their trust. How can it happen that every word, every point, is being followed in parliament and condemned for it, and no moment has they condemned the beating of a respected colleague Marijan Risticevic, the attack on Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, the shooting of the keyboard by a respected colleague Martinovic by that partial mobster, a partial spiritual apron and a partial struggle for the rights of the citizens of Bosko Obradovic's homosexual orientation? How come you haven't condemned at any time, gentlemen and gentlemen, when you bring a motor saw into RTS and threaten to now have to organize the program as they wish? How come they don't condemn the invitation to urinate on graves by our famous actor of this government or the call for a Stalinist cleanup after a hypothetical approach to power, the call for an unconstitutional takeover of government by street riots in the middle of the pandemic, the call for beating our security forces in front of the Assembly? Or how is it that you are subject to a selective justice that you are permanently accusing this authority of violating the presuppension of innocence, and only in that show have you brought up 20 affairs, and none of them have been prosecuted, and by being guided by that saying – cadiya sues you, cadiya sues you, accuses you, conducts the case, and makes the conclusion that these people are guilty? From the beginning to the end of the show, you, gentlemen and Madam, have been making accusations that these institutions have been destroyed, that the judiciary is not independent and that it is under the influence of the authorities. Your Honor, Judge Majic, how do the elementary moral and ethical codes allow you to state this for your colleagues who do their job with honor and integrity, in accordance with the Constitution and the law of this country, keeping the spine of this country? I'll finish the next one. Dear Mr. Majic, Mrs. Tepic, Mr. Gilas and all of you who belong to that conglomerate called the opposition – you as an opposition and we as a government are similar in some segments, almost the same. And you and we want to come to power and stay in power for as long as possible. Our strategy and tactics are different. You choose destroying protests, you choose a boycott, you choose an attack on the institutions of this country, and we choose the only legal and legitimate way to come to power – elections. What you and I are diametrically different is motives for coming to power. The motives of this ruling coalition are to build hospitals, build roads, fight for a better life for our citizens in every sense, better sport, better culture, improve the standard of living, strengthen our army. And in order not to take time away from my colleagues, I could talk about our results for another two days. Your motive, the motive of all of you in opposition, I said well, motive, because you have no more motive than just one, is the exclusive coming to power for personal gain. You've had opportunities not for a small number of years to show what you know, you've shown what you know, and the people have put you right where you deserve to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5299	Thank you. The remaining time is 40 minutes. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but the court is a court. The main question these days, months, these years is why hasn't Dragan Gilas been arrested? It's a question that probably all MPs get. It says, when it's already been published and already you know what he's done and how much money he's brought out, the main question is why is Dragan Gilas and the team that's doing it not arrested? Our people think that power is power, and that in a certain way we can force judges and prosecutors to do their job. Unfortunately, that's not true. I wish we could, but my answer to those citizens is that the judiciary is independent of this authority. It wasn't from the last one. And it's probably an answer to the citizens' question why Dragan Gilas isn't arrested, because the prosecution is on its own, but a little more prone to them, and the court is independent of this authority, the former is not and is filled with their relatives, ideological relatives, blood relatives, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Plato said about the state that the best state in which everyone does their job is. In a country where you have unregistered political parties, you have unregistered unregistered gatherings, you have a situation that most people don't do their job. You have unregistered media, and you have unregistered media, which invite unregistered political parties, to go out for protests, and then these unregistered media outlets, report unregistered gatherings of unregistered parties, etc. Is that the state where everyone does their job? The court is a court. And let me put it this way, there's a political organization in my name called Cepris. She's registered as an NGO and I'll dare call an anti-government organization, possibly an anti-government organization. It is an NGO for the study, research and training of the judiciary. It's just this organization that's made up of judges, prosecutors and lawyers that's a little suspicious to me. But let's see what they train future judges in the judiciary. Let's see what their website says where they put what they are doing and what they are doing, so the topics are: "Serbia as a society of media links", well, the theme "Freedom of the media and protection of citizens", all from the judicial work. Well, says Majic - Fighting against the planned blitz. It's such a difficult qualification. Then - Vučić's vaccine, some Mrs. Mandic or Mr. Mandic, then again Majic - we came to the edge behind the violence. Is that a covert threat? I'd say so. We've reached the edge behind the violence. After all the violence and things that happened in both the National Assembly and the RTS, an attempt to attack the presidency, etc. When, that judge said, we came to the edge behind the violence. We should ask ourselves if he may be calling for that violence himself. It looks like the government is attacking me. To discourage others. It goes on – the legislative authority looks like a theatre director. Further – Is there a National Assembly in Serbia? That's the CEPRIS. There are no conditions for democratic elections. Is it a controversial regulation of choice? Who's the sovereign here? It's the same theme. The Code of Members of the People. Why the code was passed, the obligations of MPs, politicians shouldn't convince us, when you saw a representative of the current government in front of the prosecution and the courts. We've seen it many times and my smallness. I don't get it. It says: a new demonstration of haughtiness in the congregation. With one blow, shut down "N1", "New S" and discipline everyone in the Council in REM. "Marian Risticevic proposed amendments to the Law on Electronic Media which could lead to the shutting down of TV "N1". I wrote in the bill that REM must pay special attention not to abuse cross-border channels that re-emission programmes in the Republic of Serbia. It means to prevent abuse. Judge Majic and his team are opposed to preventing abuses, i.e. because the law does not say "N1" or "New S" and so on, but it is globally about cross-border channels, which was also defined by the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Confirming the Convention on Cross-border Channels of the Council of Europe, the Law on Advertising. It's all defined, I was just trying to prevent abuse from being reported as a pro-co-border channel without it. As he found "New S" and "N1" there, it is God himself who knows, but apparently that he knows that they are abusers, allegedly re-emissioning, and that they are in fact broadcasting programmes in the Republic of Serbia and that they are not paying anyone anything, thus questioning the business of domestic regular media. Instead of standing up to regularity, to respect regularity, they asked for irregularity to be respected, and regularity was not respected. Is that the meaning of the bill? I don't know what it is, if the People's MP, and one of his powers is to propose a law, or amend and supplement the law. So, they have to deal with us, and sometimes they only deal with us. The judge sits next to the lady, they advocate the rule of law, for the freedom of the media, as you can see, and sits next to company workers. Look, you can't do politics in a company like that. Now, I don't know where the border is. We have problems with Solak's business and Gilas's company, and there the workers of his company jump out, and at work time when companies work, they deal with politics. For me, it is another offense, and in the evening, the judge sits next to the politician who has proposed to Mr Filipovic, otherwise a drug dealer from Panchev, suggested that he move Miroslav Mic Milankov, as a journalist from Panchev. Imagine a television house or television that allegedly resumes the program and so on, which is only fictitiously registered in Luxenburg, which is full of media freedom, Majic is also full of media freedom, that they are sitting in the guests calling the lady who advocated freedom of the media by moving the journalist Milankov out of Pancheva because she does not like the current worker of Gilas' company. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, not to take up much of your time, I think our courts of the judiciary are acting the next way, as sports fishermen, which the police catch, they kiss and let go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5301	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. The word has been made by the MP professor, Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5302	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Kovac. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all my predecessors have spoken clearly about is what represents an unconquered fortress for the so-called opposition, especially for this opposition that has definitely been losing its compass for the past few weeks and calling for violence in our country, I will remind my fellow MPs that if they fail to negotiate to follow the street and hear from the mouth of the people who are part of the opposition daily, but who are represented as independent, so-called. intellectuals, they are talking about this particular violence, as counterpart Marijan Risticevic said, that this was Judge Majic on his organisation's website saying that we touched that line in Serbia and that after that line we are now following this violence. I know that it is an invincible fortress of two, two and a half million people, so the votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which the Serbian Progressive Party has won in previous parliamentary elections, I know that it is a thorn in some 179 MPs that the Serbian Progressive Party has and which it won in the held parliamentary elections, on 21 June 2020, and that this fortress cannot be won by any means other than that they hope to do so through a revolution, a Ukrainian scenario, a Macedonian scenario, which they have been talking about for more than a few years. In order to be able to shake us and shake our path established by President Aleksandar Vukic and Serbia's path towards modernising to new jobs, towards a better economy, towards independence, towards sovereignty, they are willing to do everything, and also to attack our younger colleagues, these young people who, from day to day, show them how well they are educated, how valuable they are, how politically they are, in any other way, vispres and how capable they are to lead this country and to be part of state institutions and to perform the most responsible possible state functions. After all, they show them this every week on the RTS on the "Sword by Word" show, where their arguments show by their knowledge, in fact how high the Serbian Progressive Party is and how much it deserves to win in all the local and parliamentary elections in the previous eight years. Also, I would like to say that the Serbian Progressive Party is undoubtedly a party that is aimed at the rule of law and that is why we care very much that the judges' functions, whatever court it is, come to the best people, people with the highest possible professional and ethical principles. Slowly from year to year, I believe that we are affecting such an ambience here in Parliament and colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Serbia that we have a judicial system that will be so targeted that it will be fair to everyone who lives in this country, who works, who works in this country, who will be directed to create a quality environment for life in Serbia, but for the functioning of the economy, attracting investors, investment wherever they come from, and I think we are on a good track to do so and to fulfill the ideal of a country in which there is a rule of law and in which the role of the mafia and criminals will be reduced to the least possible extent. What I must point out is that all those who are calling for violence, my colleagues have talked about it, and that Marinika Tepic, who I remember here, as someone who has been vice president for almost six years, because it is very often, that no session has passed, and that has not cursed my colleague Arsic and me while we have been running the National Assembly sessions, that is, I remember, she is now trying to do what is not possible, what is the people of our country, what are citizens, in fact, seeing what it is, trying to completely get off the subject of what is a fundamental issue in our country these days and in the next period and which Marijan Rističević started at the beginning of his speech - how is it possible that someone who was a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, someone who was mayor of the city of Belgrade, someone who has been the highest state office in just a few years of office for 53 years and that 53 million euros on that account found 67 million euros on the continent? How is that possible? What kind of work did he do? What did he produce? What added value did he create that he earned so much money, which we absolutely do not suspect in the Serbian Progressive Party was created on the account and on the coat of arms of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the expense of our state-owned enterprises, at the expense of recalibrating what and those assets and those of those companies and all those who should have put that money into our country's budget and that money was used to build the infrastructure, to build hospitals, to raise the level of health and social services in our country? Unfortunately, in those years it was not done and it is not necessary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to be surprised that no hospital was built, that a mile of highway was not built, that the job lost 300,000 people by the mah, so 95% in the private sector. So, those people who were supposed to do their work, by their pawning, by paying taxes, by paying their contributions to create conditions for this country to advance, to grow a gross domestic product and to come to this level that we came to today in 2021, when we successfully fight thanks to President Vukic and his vision of this crisis caused by the coronary virus, when we fight for every job, when we attract almost daily new investors in our country who create added value and who create conditions for our young people to be employed in our country. Of course, as MPs, we will not be left without a vote and I support absolutely my colleagues, because we own ourselves, since we have been elected by the votes of the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to raise our voice against every crime, against every violence and against all those who strive and who call for any order, anything in the Republic of Serbia to change in some violent way just for reasons to hide their crime, only for reasons to hide what they did during that period, so that there is no clear difference between what Alexander Vukic and this government and our parliamentary majority here represent what represents the most human traits, which is dedication, it is work for their country, it is patriotism, it is the protection of national interests that we are definitely fighting for and those who, as my colleague Mirkovic said well, cleaned up the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We had a chance now for the weekend to see and hear about this, about some ecological uprising, about the god-awful care of environmental and environmental protection of people who sent political messages. I have one question for them – where were they in 2009, during the implementation, when the "Let's Clean Serbia" campaign was implemented? I'll just give you two examples. One example is that two weeks of renting a pano at a tennis tournament in the SC "Gale Muskatirović" was paid 500,000 euros and that the pan was paid at Brank Bridge, or on Branko Street, on a business building for only seven days of publication of 500 000 euros. Did any of these people mention it and mention what was done during those 12 years of government on environmental protection? We see that this is a political agenda and we see that it has nothing to do with protecting the environment, but we also want to say that we will raise our voice and we will work committedly to protecting everything that represents the liquid of what Alexander Vukic has done for our country in the past few years, reforming our economy, empowering our health system, our social system, strengthening our army, our defence system, and strengthening our geopolitical position. What represents our legitimacy and what represents the strength from which we draw all our activities, everything we do in the context of our political action, represents mathematics. What all public opinion research says is that currently Aleksandra Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party supports over 60% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia are not what those of the boycotting violent opposition think, that they are ignorant, that they are illiterate, that they are uneducated. And neither will they, of course, as they have shown on many occasions in the previous eight years, allow those who have rode this country, who have done nothing in the field of protecting its sovereignty and territorial integrity, not to mention economics and jobs. They didn't do anything about it, they sold out everything they could sell out, everything we had and brought us to bankruptcy in 2012. Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party are the personification of all the opposite of those people who are today calling for violence and who are trying to... Look at how perfiduous this is, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. The president of the country is being attacked, BIA Director Bratislava Gasic is being attacked, Nikola Selakovic, foreign minister, the parliament is being attacked, which is a legitimate expression of the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They're trying to hit the groundwork of this country and those people I think I am, and we're all here at SNS that they're the foundation, that pillars of honesty, honor and defence of the country's national interests, and we're not going to allow them in this House as a majority. We will not be silent about such insinuations and no one will stop us from pointing to every crime they have, to point to any incompetence for the sake of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the interests of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5303	Thank you, Professor. Marinkovic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. The remaining time is 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5304	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly Dr Orlic, Honored Pantic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say that the previous regime of Dragan Gilas has left the country economically, infrastructureally, industrialally totally devastated, and today we are standing in these activities at an envious level. The same Gilasov and Jeremic regime left us with no international reputation. Today, Serbia has an envious international reputation. Gilasov and Jeremic's regime leave us a country with a collapsed Serbian Army. Today, the Serbian Army is at an envious level. Gilasov and Jeremic's regime left Serbia in the health system that was last in Europe, and today it is among the first 13 countries in Europe. Finally, he left us the judiciary that was last in Europe, and today, given the time, yet at an envious level and precisely the choice of these judges who are first elected to the judge's office is modernisation and justice, along with the material basis where much has been achieved and achieved in the area of judge's training. All these judges who are here today, as candidates, meet the basic criteria, whether it's a matter of expertise, training or dignity. I am particularly undermining this question of the dignity of the judge. That is, not to say, one of the three main characteristics of every judge. Now, when we compare the party of the former regime of Tadic, Jeremic and Gilas, did they adhere to these criteria during the election? Of course, they are neither professional nor trained, nor worthy. The only criterion was belonging to the DS, even the DS municipal boards made proposals to elect judges. Dear People's MPs, that's why our judiciary during Gilas' reign was in desperate condition. The frame was very low. As colleagues have said, 837 judges remain out of the machine, let's say, and 200 deputy prosecutors. Some judges died of injustice, and some committed suicide. According to the union's assessment in the judiciary, 20 judges have passed away due to re-election. It was a judiciary during the former government. I must say, and I often point out that when I talk about justice, that the Gilas judiciary in the election of judges has made one of the biggest scandals in the history of the world's judiciary, which is that they have elected a dead judge, although VSS President Nata Mesarovic, otherwise cousin Boris Tadic, has, on that basis, come to the head of the VSS, said that she has held talks with all the candidates and spent 200 hours talking. That means a whole month. It is also very interesting that Judge Sonja Brkic was elected to judge during the rule of Gilas, although she violated the Law on Judges, as she also served as Judge of the Supreme Court and President of the RIK. The Law on Judges then explicitly forbidded it. However, she did not stick to it. Sonja Brkic took 2,673,000 dinars in RIK, then against the law. She refused to pay back that money. As she dealt with the issue of the judiciary then and the European Commission, she gave a very negative assessment of judicial reform from 2008 to 2012. At the 96th apartment in the book "Court Reforms in Serbia 2008-2012", I quote -- the government's reforms were as the worst possible thing in Serbia, a complete quote. Here, it's the justice system it was. Today, when compared with the arrival of Justice Minister Mr Selakovic, and later Nele Kuburovic, and with the current ministers, the situation has changed dramatically. Is that the level at which the EU would demand, for example? Certainly not, but it is at that level that it is better than in some EU member states. And that's what we have to say. It is also the reforms that this assembly of the Assembly and the Government will now implement that judges will be elected, in fact, that judges will only be elected by the judicial authorities. As far as the case is concerned, I must say that at the beginning of Gilas' reforms, 780,000 cases were pending. So in 2008, and in 2012, instead of shrinking, it increased to three million. So by 2,180,000 it increased. In 2019, it was halved, so instead of three and a half, we have a million and a half unsolved items. That was what Gilas, Jeremic and Tadic's judiciary looked like. They worked harder against the judiciary than for the judiciary. Speaking of Jeremic, perhaps the judiciary and the prosecution should deal with him, with what this man is doing, what he's doing and what he's doing today. He founded the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development. That's his fund-laundering center. Just to point out that Jeremic got $200,000 from Mongolia. To this day, he did not explain the name of the money he received. Only between 2013 and 2017 did he receive as much as $7.9m from various suspicious sources. To this day, he did not explain to the citizens of Serbia on the basis of which he received the money. Furthermore, Vuk Jeremic was paid $4.5m from suspected, phantom energy companies operating in Shanghai and Hong Kong. Look at the wonders, in Hong Kong, he met with Dragan Gilas, right? This is where his friends operated, Jeremy's associates who were later arrested, as you know, in the United States for corruption and money laundering – Patrick Ho and Sheikh Tidian Gadio. The four, therefore, Jeremic, Gilas, Patrick Ho and Sheikh Tidian Gadio are an international group of thieves and frauds. The wolf also received $120,000 from Qatar and the embassy in Berlin, $200,000. I urge Vuk Jeremic to explain to Serbian citizens what he has received from abroad. Finally, respected MPs, while our President Aleksandar Vukic daily returns Serbia's international reputation by implementing peace policy, security policy, not only Serbian citizens, but also regionals, a policy of accelerated economic modernisation, a policy of health for all our citizens in the country, and the environment, until then Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic muds our country and citizens of Serbia, suing various so-called international organisations, and in the sense that Gilas is hiding his money in Mauritius, Hong Kong, Croatia, the Netherlands, in 17 countries and 53 accounts. There will probably still be those accounts and those countries. In the end, I think the court and the D.A. should really deal with it a little longer, and I believe they're dealing with Mr. Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5305	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. You've got eight minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5306	That's enough, Mr. President, a time in which you can say enough. Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, National Assembly presidents, prosecutors, judges, prosecutors, prosecutors, that's what should essentially associate us always with justice and justice, at least that's how it should be. However, when it comes to me, and I don't know what it's like with you, distinguished colleagues, and what it's like with you, Mr. Pantic, and with you, Mr. President of the Assembly, but I just feel like these moments when I'm talking about a choice of such high judicial functions remind me of the election of judges and prosecutors of the early two-thousands, i.e. At the beginning, in the first decade of the two thousand years, and as much as I want, I can't get away from that association and that memory in that and that way the election of judges and prosecutors in this same place. Mr Pantic, you have today brought to the National Assembly proposals which are seriously supported by the proposals and seriously supported by the opinion of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the High Council of the judiciary before that has obtained proposals and opinions, which concern the assessment of the ability, dignity and expertise of these proposals with which you came before us today. Am I right? I did, of course. Also, in this material when it comes to these proposals are serious biographies of each candidate and that's something that follows the VSS's proposals. When you look at each candidate's envious biographies, impressive. All in all, a good and pedantic job both as a job and as a procedure. As a result, the National Assembly will be determined, or we MPs in this respected home. However, Mr Pantic, do you remember the choices of these same people, or these same positions at the beginning of the two thousand years? Were these procedures and jobs done the same way today? I see you're spinning your head, this is a rhetorical question, and you don't have to answer it. I even understand you won't or can't answer. It's a difficult question, because I'm sure that you as a professional and as a man of the profession are a little bit perhaps a shame to all of what has been done by a judge's practice, or a judge's profession of that time, despite the fact that these jobs have little to do with you. I understand that this is a very difficult issue for you and for all people and in the field of justice and that you may not even answer what I ask. However, we MPs are certainly obliged to talk about it, it is our job and to remember and to remind Serbia and to keep talking about what it looked like, what it looks like today and what it should look like. Here's what it looked like - in this material that you delivered today, in a similar material from that time on, it wasn't even important to the opinion of the VSS, it wasn't even important that the biography accompanying these proposals was not even important to the votes of the MPs in this distinguished parliament, at least not to the extent that it was necessary, you will agree with me. There was only one thing that mattered. It was an important opinion of the city, or municipal board of DS, of the municipality from which the candidate is from. If, for example, the candidate came from Subotica, it was an important opinion of the DS City Committee in Subotica. If this was the case in the King, as it was today, it was an important opinion of the City Committee of DS in the King and nothing else mattered. It's very important that people know this. What a defeat of the judge's profession, Mr Pantic. Do you agree with me? A great defeat. But thank God those times are behind us, but the efforts to get those times back aren't behind us. Efforts to return to those times are both alive and seen in the functioning of today's opposition in Serbia, led today by the same people who gave orders on how to vote for judges and prosecutors at the beginning of the two thousand years. This insistence today is seen through political action both Gilas and Tadic and Jeremic. If you return to Serbia for power, the practice of electing judges and prosecutors will also return. That's what you need to know, and then your shame will come back, I don't mean your personal, of course, but professionally. However, of course, as much as they want to do today, Serbia recognises the real values, and the people certainly recognize it, above all, the people will not allow it. We will definitely decide on these proposals in the voting day, and we hope that this practice that has already become positive will remain for the future in Serbia and that it will never return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5307	Since there's only a minute and a half left, Mr. Linta isn't here, do they want the word Sandra or Martinovic? No, I don't. I thank you. I'd like to ask in the end if the Proposer's representative wants a word. Thank you. Does the Committee's rapporteur want a word? No, I don't. Is there anyone else who hasn't taken advantage of the law? The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5308	I thank the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Presidency, Mr Pantic, I would first of all like to thank you for attending today's debate and having the patience to listen to all our suggestions and suggestions. I want to use a few minutes in this final word. It's primarily about candidates. A colleague has recently concluded that practice in Serbia never repeats itself, when it comes to the Serbian judiciary and that we all strive to have an effective judiciary, a decent judiciary that will be primarily accessible to citizens. In this context, I would like to say that the SPS is part of the ruling coalition, that we share values and responsibilities when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but that we share values and responsibilities and when it comes to the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I saying this? When we talk about such important issues and such important issues, of course it is perfectly logical that as part of the ruling coalition we have the exact same attitude with our strategic and long-term coalition partners from the SNS. So I just want to make one correction. During today's presentation, our authorised representative said that the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day would support all candidates of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I did not deal with my presentation to the candidates individually, I was more focused on something that I think is important for the Serbian judiciary, and also on the EU's report, regarding what the European Parliamentarians were talking about, fully well-intentioned, because we believe that this is a guideline, a guideline that Serbia, when it comes to justice, should go in the next period of time. I want to say that after the consultations we have carried out within the parliamentary group and after the presentation of an authorised representative of the SNS, it is very important, again, that we have a unique position on these issues, because we are talking about an extremely important and sensitive subject, so I am not saying that it is a mistake of the High Council of the judiciary - who is doing this and making mistakes, but the most important thing is to see mistakes in time and if we can remove them and correct them. So, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposal of the mandated representative of the SNS, thinking above all that in this way we are acting responsibly, acting as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but this is our responsible relationship with the coalition partners with whom we are building a better future first of all, and when we speak specifically today, it is about the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5309	Jelena Žarić Kovacevic you have three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-0.u5310	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Dear Mr Pantic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of today's debate, we can conclude what the MPs are really up for, and what we have highlighted in our discussions today, that we want to be on a joint mission with the Serbian government in all the activities that will mean the promotion of our judiciary. Judges are based on the Constitution and the law. We need a strong, independent and independent judiciary in which our citizens will first of all trust and be sure that they will be able to exercise their rights and that above all, the law will stand behind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One of the priorities of the government's work is certainly a comprehensive reform in our judicial system, the concern of the judiciary is the concern of professional staff, of people who will be worthy of judicial functions, of infrastructure care, of the conditions in which they, and not only is it important, but not only the creation of an appropriate legislative framework that will enable us to live in a country where the rule of law is first. We are aware of the need to have a strong judiciary so that we can endure another goal that is the priority of government's work, which is the fight against crime and corruption. We're ready from this place to give full support to state authorities so they can do their job at full capacity. Only through the legal and institutional functioning of the competent state authorities will we receive information, but also decisions that are correct and timely in terms of repressive, but also preventive action in the fight against crime. The decision that Serbia should be not only a financially and politically stable country, but also an example of the rule of law is on all of us, as well as the responsibility to implement such a decision. I want the candidates elected as judges to justify the trust they have received from us as a representative of citizens and to keep our judicial system from impacting independence or professionalism in their work. Thank you. Mr President, thank you. Since there are no more members of parliament to be called for debate, I would like to thank the proposing representative, Aleksandr Pantic, and I would like to conclude a joint single search. We continue tomorrow with a joint search related to the other three points of the agenda. After that, there'll be a vote. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 6:25 p.m.]]
