ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7730	Dear People's MPs, I am opening a session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 109 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. To determine the exact number of Members, please insert your cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 162 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and Josip Broz. You were delivered the minutes of the 4th and 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in 2021. As most of those MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, held on 9 and 10 June 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 166, for - 163, did not vote - three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session by majority vote. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, held on 16 June 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 167 for - 165, not two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the Fifth Extraordinary Session by majority vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 236 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in this request. For the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session, the following Dn e n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law on student organisation, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural market, submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law on metrology, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation in relation to income taxes and the prevention of tax ejaculation and avoidance, which the government has filed. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, pursuant to Article 92(2), Articles 157, 1st and 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to carry out: Joint Principle Search on : Proposal for a Law on Student Organization; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education; Joint Principle Search and Single Search on : - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Family Financial Support with Children - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the Elimination of Double Taxation in relation to income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance; Joint principled search on : Proposal for a Law on Organisation of the Market of Agricultural Products; - Proposal for a Law on Metrology; Is Mr Martinovic reporting for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 167 for - 165, not two. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. In line with the decisions adopted today regarding the merger of the debate, I would just like to inform you that today we will be working on the first two points of the agenda – the Law on Student Organization and the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, that tomorrow we will be working on the Second Joint Principle and Single Search, on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with the Children and on the International Agreement with Singapore, and tomorrow, in the afternoon part of the debate, will be as foreseen by our Rules of Procedure, as last Thursday in the month, Serbian Government is headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Then we will continue our work next week, on Tuesday, June 29th, according to the next agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the meetings were invited to attend Branko Ružić, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Prof. Dr. Marijana Dukić Mijatovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and Prof. Dr. Bojan Tubic, Deputy Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Student Organization and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Proposer Branko Ružić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7731	Thank you, National Assembly President. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have two before you today, I would say, very important legislative proposals. I would only remind in the introduction that from the beginning of November on here, my team and I, therefore, first of all, State Secretary Marijana Dukić Mijatović, resolutely in charge of assistants, but of course, other state secretaries, have done much as the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development just on, and legislative activity, but of course, on strategic documents that were kind of prolonged and on hold for objective reasons, so the Science Strategy was adopted, under the motto "Knowledge Power" from 2022 to 2025. As early as February, the Education and Education Strategy until 2030, which was voted at the government about 20 days ago, practically. Also the Smart Specialisation Strategy. As far as legislative activity is concerned, even though we have done everything in those last months of the previous year and the beginning of this, everything has happened in some way, I would say to the extraordinary circumstances, but we have managed to organise public debates and, in fact, in one inclusive way, all those who are actors in that chain include, in our constructive proposals, of course, and critics, simply make proposals of a law that will meet, first of all, the challenges of this time and needs. As far as the Proposal for a Law on Student Organization is concerned, I think it is very important to see how important it is to have a student organisation in terms of the fact that it is an important segment of higher education and is practically existing both from the beginning or the beginning of higher education in our country. What it is, we can already say the historical fact, is that so far, not once, this domain has not been regulated by one special legal act, but has been exclusively regulated by certain provisions of the Law on Higher Education. Unfortunately, due to the lack of comprehensive regulation of this issue, there has been an establishment of different practices at individual higher education institutions and even at different higher education institutions within an independent higher education institution. That is why it is necessary for these illogicalities to be removed, to allow students to participate uninterruptedly in academic life. I will remind you that this text of the bill was current in 2019. One public debate was held, so at the beginning of this year another fine nuance was held, and I think that after so long, students, as a significant part of the mosaics of higher education, or, most importantly, deserve to have one such text of the law found before you as holders of delegated sovereignty by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The entire proposal of the Law on Student Organization rests on a clearly expressed dichotomy of forms of student organisation. It is about student representative bodies and student organisations, as part of student representative bodies, that provides for two of their visions. So these are student conferences and student parliaments. There are two student conferences, a student conference of the University and a student conference of the Academy of Professional Studies or High Schools, and they are in fact the highest form of student representative bodies and operate at national level. Special attention is paid to the way students conferences are financed, as well as very detailed their competences, which are practically followed logically by the properties of roof student representative bodies that have student conferences. They will certainly discuss issues of common importance for students, choose and resolve student representatives at the National Council for Higher Education, represent, represent students' interests at international level and so on. As regards the student parliament, it is prescribed that each must have two legal acts, the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure on Elections, and we have also prescribed the jurisdiction of the choice of its members. We are also introducing the possibility for students who perform one of the functions in the Student Parliament, an independent higher education institution, as well as representatives of the student conference, to be granted the rest of their student duties as they perform those functions at a personal request. The intensity of such a solution was that students who in the future will perform the most functions in student representative bodies, who on the other hand are extremely important for all students, were allowed to devote most of their time to this. The essence of this proposal is that the representatives of students participate in the work including the right to decide the professional bodies of higher education institutions on a broad range of issues of which the most important issue is to propose candidates for the bodies of employment. The proposal provides that their representatives will now have the right to take part in the decision-making process and in the expert body of the higher education institution. The second large continent of this bill refers to student organisations. It is about associations established in accordance with the law governing associations of citizens, i.e. the functioning of an association of citizens registered as a student organisation in accordance with the procedure which is also detailed in the draft law that is in front of you. Detailed conditions are to be met by one association in order to obtain student organisation status. The status of a student organisation is achieved for three years and can be renewed, and may stop early if one of the conditions for obtaining that status falls. Each higher education institution is obliged to run a register of student organisations that have the status on it, the possibility is also prescribed with certain criteria and conditions and to join student organisations in associations of student organisations, and the establishment of a national association of student organisations is prescribed. This law will give students a uniform, one-brave, timely rule that will regulate their organisation at higher education institutions in a long time. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, Honorable President and Honorable People's MPs, the draft law is practically very important and corresponds with the necessity of raising the quality of higher education in Serbia and, when it comes to amendments and additions to this law, from 2017, it is important to stress that we will therefore settle relevant issues regarding the work of the national accreditation body. This is also important for our alignment with the recommendations made by the European Association for High Education Quality Security of ENKVA, to restore full membership in the European Association to the national accreditation body. Although the status of this association in no way affects the validity and quality of diplomas acquired in our higher education institutions, it is certainly of great reputation for the positioning of the Republic of Serbia in the European and international higher education area. So let me explain, these amendments of the law will fully meet European standards and guidelines on quality assurance in higher education in terms of behavioural independence and in making final decisions to verify quality in higher education. That is why the proposal, which you are facing, provides for changes and additions relating to the more precise demarcation of competences between the National High Education Council and the National Accreditation Body in the field of external quality checks and accreditation of higher education institutions and study programmes, as well as the establishment of operational independence of the National Accreditation Body. Its composition forms an appeal authority whose jurisdiction passes the application of higher education institutions to refute the requests for accreditation of higher education institutions and study programmes, so that the appeal procedure will no longer take place within the framework of the National Council for Higher Education and such a solution exists in other European countries, including our neighbour Croatia. I find it necessary to add that we wanted to specify both the working status and the competence of the Director of the National Accreditation Body. The director is elected and resolved in accordance with the law based on a public competition from the university professors who have experience in managing and providing quality in higher education. The paper compared to the previous solution is that the director would also establish a working relationship in the National Accreditation Body. Amendments have also been proposed for members of the Management Board of the National Accreditation Body to be elected by the National Assembly and now appointed by the Government, and an increase in the number of members of the Management Board from seven to nine, the number of members of the Accreditation Commission from 17 to 19 of them being 17 members from the order of teachers of higher education institutions, one from the ranks of students and one from the ranks of businessmen. Members of the Accreditation Commission are no longer elected on the proposal of the National High Education Council but on the basis of a public call. Members of the National Council for Higher Education are elected by the National Assembly, and are now also appointed by the Government. The change in the body selecting these institutions shows the intention to remove any possible doubts about the influence of the executive authority on them. Also, in the process of applying the Law on Higher Education, the need has been seen to further define the framework for theological education in the Republic of Serbia in line with its specificities. The amendments and additions are foreseen for higher education institutions that implement academic study programmes in the field of theology, one of the traditional churches and religious communities. Personalities stemming from the objectives and nature of theological education point to the need to prescribe additional conditions relating to obtaining consent from the authorities of the church, that is to say, the religious community in relation to persons who perform the teaching service in a higher education institution, as well as consent to enrolment in the academic study programme in the field of theology, and to preserve the identity of spiritual values that are the basis of the identity of the church, i.e. a religious community whose theology is, in fact, the subject of study. Also, the current law already contains provisions whose content reflects the specificities of higher education institutions that implement study programmes for the purposes of, for example, police, military and education for national security purposes, so in this context we consider it important to regulate specificity in the field of theological education, not by putting them in the same plane, but by respecting practically specificities that are the rightful category of all these levels of education. In addition to these important newspapers that I have presented, I would like to introduce you to another couple that have emerged as solutions to some of the challenges we have faced in practice. The draft amending law also provides for a teacher to call a regular professor who has met the conditions for termination of employment and retirement, and there is a need to continue work and extend his working relationship by contract with a higher education institution for up to two years, cannot be selected in the organs of the higher education institution and its organisational units. I will also remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in its current meeting on 11 February this year brought an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 64(1). The law on higher education, that the law should be understood so that the body of conduct of a suitable higher education institution, so the rector, dean, president, or director cannot choose from the order of teachers whose working relationship ended at the end of the school year in which they were 65 years old, who were again extended to this provision by a contract with a higher education institution for a period of up to two years, with the possibility of further extensions, and the longest until the end of the school year in which they are 70 years old. When it comes to the extension of the working relationship, the accent is certainly on the knowledge and experience of regular professors with regard to teaching and raising teaching and scientific rejuvenation, and certainly not on the management of institutions when those persons are limited to the duration of the mandate. This is in line with the above-mentioned authentic interpretation and with the established practice that followed in the academic community, that the authorities of the business cannot be chosen from the order of persons with a limited mandate, so the adoption of the diametrically opposite solutions in a very short period of time would lead, I would say, not only to legal uncertainty, which is not in line with the tendency of the Republic of Serbia to raise the quality of higher education, but also to some way the questionable credibility of this home which dealt with a very complementary issue in February this year. In particular, of course, not the moment we change the law, in order to obtain full membership in the European Association for the Security of Quality in Higher Education and Action in Equal Status within the European Educational Area. Here, in this draft law amending and supplementing the law, we have also established our intentions when it comes to the introduction of the state's graduation in 2024 and that higher education institutions will enroll in studies according to the law with the evaluation of general, professional and artistic graduations, and they will establish by their general act the exams of graduation valued in enrolment. They will do so by 31 August 2022, two years before the introduction of a state degree in order for students to know in advance what is needed to enroll a certain higher education institution. It is important to know that national prom is a major reform step on which this government and previous governments have been working practically for 15 or 16 years. We have an exceptional assistance on this project, not only in the material, but also in the EU's expert sense, and we have seen a real picture and diagnosis as far as the project has gone. I think that the measure we defined as starting in 2024 is exactly the measure that corresponds to raising the quality of the entire education system both secondary education and higher education, but it is important to realize that the state graduate has the same certification criteria as well, but of course also qualifications and certification regarding the confirmation of the acquired knowledge during high school education whether it is about high schools, secondary professional schools, artistic or some music. Also, this qualification that practically represents passing or passing to a higher education facility. It is precisely in this field that we held a series of meetings with representatives of all universities in Serbia and pointed out the need for them to engage more actively as higher education institutions to limit the structure and complexity of tasks that would be defined by certain segments as a criterion for passing to their higher education institutions. At the end of the problem we are also solving these changes, unfortunately not for the first time, is the extension of the study period for students who started studies according to regulations that were valid until 10 September 2005 for another school year, especially considering that the transition to new student programmes would mean significantly increased levels of academic obligations, the amount of study costs, and yet they are located just before the end of the study. This is one question that lasts in continuity, and I think it requires more, I would say qualified observation, consideration, analysis, some parallel figures, so in some future period, hopefully we will find a model that will, indeed, in a pedagogical way, affect this very structure of students to bring an end to some realistic time of their studies, if they want to, but that they certainly do not dispute the right to conduct their studies in the way they consider it appropriate. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, I thank you for the opportunity to present in the shortest lines these two bill proposals, also to point out in short lines some of the things that have been done over the past six or seven months. I believe that we have made clear enough what is the practical intensity of these legislative proposals and I hope that we will get your support for these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7732	Thank you. We're going to report to the board of directors. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7733	Thank you to the National Assembly of Presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, on which the minister and his associates were present, we have discussed these proposals that are now in front of us and have assessed that they are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It is therefore a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. As we could hear in this opening presentation by Minister Ruzic, in the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2017, it is necessary to amend certain provisions concerning, above all, the quality assurance system in higher education in order to establish an appropriate legal framework. But in order for the national accreditation body to fully meet European standards and quality assurance guidelines in higher education. This will, of course, be of great importance to the positioning of Serbia, not only among the EU countries, but in a single international area concerning education. Another bill is the proposal for a new law, or the Law on Student Organization. The student organisation is also known in previous years, not to say for dozens of years, as an important factor in higher education. It has existed in different forms since the very beginning of higher education in our country. We have a 2005 law that provides for a certain framework for the participation of students in higher education and the existence of so-called "students". student parliament. The provisions relating to student organisation have also been introduced in the 2017 Law, however, practice has shown that the application of these laws was such that they were actually different in different universities, or universities in our country, and this could have threatened or threatened the functioning of this segment of higher education in a certain degree. That's exactly why it's important to pass the Law on Student Organization. First of all, this law will work to improve and comply with European standards in this area, to edit structures within the framework of student organisation, and will actually create the kind of institutional framework, i.e. the legislative framework that we need at this point. For all these reasons I have cited, and for all the reasons presented today by Minister Ruzic, I would like to invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support these proposals in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7734	Thank you. Muamer Zukorlic on behalf of the Committee, and then you will in continuity for minutes or twice. All right, here you go. I now give you my word as rapporteur to the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7735	The Honorable Attending, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development very thoroughly considered the proposed laws. The law on November organisation as well as the amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education and had very useful discussions at the session. So we also heard serious discussions about the Law on Student Organization. We agreed that this was a very important step towards the arrangement, the legal arrangement of this field, especially since it comes after a very long break and a lack, the absence of this law. Of course, we have heard certain remarks and, of course, that just because the law is passed as a new one, after such a long period of time, we will probably get some experience and the need to further supplement the law very quickly. As far as the law, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, is, as you know, a very important law, a law that represents one of the most vital substances in our entire legislation. Here, at least while I'm in the National Assembly, and this is my fifth year, no year has been without a change to the Law of Higher Education. In fact, this points to the fact that what we started in 2005 in the field of the reform of surplus education is a very big bite, it requires a lot and we are facing a number of issues, challenges and therefore the permanent need for this law to be completed. What is noticeable is that the Working Group led by the Ministry, or representatives of the Ministry, has made a very serious effort, and this is definitely another important step. We talked to the Committee, there were questions about this restriction, age-limiting participation, so professors over 70 years of age in administrative authorities, and there was a clear view of the position of the promoters, but also with the position of the majority on this committee, that it should remain consistent with what we had as an attitude in February, in authentic interpretation. The credibility of the National Assembly and the credibility of the Education Committee is also being built on this consistency. So we can't change that attitude in such a short period of time without certain objective reasons, simply because the meaning of participation in academic life in the educational and scientific process, so MPs over the 1970s, is actually the meaning of further using their knowledge and their experience in knowledge. So, in academic life, not in governance. So that's actually what's left of the Committee's position and it's probably going to be that way. What is among other papers is the focus on quality assurance in addition to quality checks, which was one of the shortcomings in the current course of the accreditation process, where the accreditation commission was most often acting as inspectors. In fact, the role and idea of the accreditation commission and in its real sense of existence, but also from the position of suggestion that we get from it, is actually that the accreditation commission is a factor that will help universities achieve standards, and not really just be some threads or some red line that will cut those who are and those who aren't. What may be one of the key reasons for changing the law is the suggestions we have received, the remarks we have received from the European Agency for Accreditation of ENKUE, but they are not the only reasons. To be very clear, so these suggestions exist, these remarks exist, but what our obligation here should be is real quality. All the remarks we get are fine, but we can't, we shouldn't accept the role of being some bad students who just get in line with what we get out of Brussels, or what we make ourselves. Yes, those remarks are in place, but certainly we go deeper, so we go to, in fact, standards and accreditation and high education arrangements to edit with our real needs, with quality. So that's what was the key and the basis and for supporting the Committee that was given to the laws in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7736	Thank you. We are now moving on to authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. As I announced earlier, the first one is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7737	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have deliberately asked that the talks be separated, because from a different position and in a different role I speak and I want what I am saying on behalf of the Committee to be, therefore, the role of the rapporteur of what was on the committee where personal party views or views of the parliamentary group are not put first. So, in fact, I will now speak in the capacity of the authorised representative as it was announced on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants' Party. In fact, there are two very important laws before us – the Law on Student Organization, which represents, in fact, a framework of student organisation, that is, a framework in which the legal framework in which students as one of the most important social categories in our country in each country can actually exercise not only their student rights, but, in fact, to get the possibility, the legal opportunity to achieve both personally and collectively in the spirit of what is the role of students. In every society, students are always a very important category. True, now in our time when we are in some way and under the benefits of technology, digitisation, which represents both necessity and need and a certain advantage, but on the other hand we are also under the influence of technology and digitisation, which is inevitably reflected in certain, therefore, and psychological, mental and character aspects of the formation of a young man. We can, in fact, go naked without entering a certain depth to actually realize that these young generations that are now zero have much less energy, less dynamics than those earlier young generations 20 or 30 years ago. It may not be fair to charge only with digitisation and technology, but it is definitely one of the key factors, and that should be dealt with both psychologists and sociologists and social psychologists who should be taken into account, and of course we as legislators on the overall and mentality and character and the health of the nation, that is, the whole society. So that's why the Law on Student Organization is, in fact, very important, not only to enable a certain dynamic of a young man, an elite young man, a member of the academic community, who bears the name of a student. So this law not only regulates this space, but we are actually building this pedestal on which the student will be able to feel an important factor, not only does it deal with achieving some basic needs and rights at the university, or at the university, which in the first place is in some way the role of student organisations, but also that, in fact, students feel that they are an important factor. True, students only get distracted when students rebel when they stage some protests. We know throughout history that students have often changed, if I can say so, the course of history, that they have actually affected the change of the entire state, social, economic systems. It used to be on a global scale, sometimes on the agenda of individual states and peoples. So, we would have to deal with more significantly, the truth, our reach here is legislation, and from this position as we adopt this law, we should actually suggest other social factors and the academic community, thinking about people who deal with these topics, but also with the media and all those factors, schools, of course, education and at other levels so that, in fact, under an aggressive impact of a different way of life, under this technology, where actually a young man is now, in a way, statizing himself with a computer, connecting to a phone, he's away from nature, he's away from dynamics in nature, he's away from dynamics in sport, except for a small number of people, and all of these are very important phenomena that if we detect in time, which we can probably at least try to find answers to all these challenges and all these problems. In that sense, I say, this law represents a very important step and it will be a good framework that actually student organisations and student representations, in addition to what will be their achievement of elementary and individual and collective rights, are also the basis for their organising the dynamics of their student life, youth life, enthusiasm, energy, ideas that young people always have more to a significant extent than the elderly. So this law certainly needs to be supported, as I said earlier, expecting that after a certain time of implementation we will face certain needs of change and harmonisation itself. I would like to place a special focus on the Law on Higher Education, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. So, as I said at the beginning, the very fact that we resort to changing this law on changes and additions almost every year, for the last five or six years, actually indicates how important this is matter, living matter, and how much more it takes to catch the right course, the right direction, and to actually respond to the modern challenges of higher education. When I say, the challenges, I mean those fundamental challenges in implementing the implementation and implementation of our educational strategies, but above all, the challenges that respond to what the individual needs are, the real needs of the family, the real needs of the economy and the real needs of society in general. You know, since 2005, it has started, but in 2005, the Law on Higher Education, which represented a kind of radical shift in the concept and perception of higher education, we have received major changes by introducing Bologna, by introducing the Bologna Declaration, which has brought us some newspapers, perhaps certain advantages, but also great problems and serious shortcomings. And here you see, after 16 years, I'm not sure that we've done our best and that we've actually established harmony, so that the Bologna process itself in higher education can be used exclusively in segments of the benefits of this process. So, we have that newspaper then, and then we have since 2005 and we have a newspaper to introduce the accreditation process. Of course, that step was very important and it was inevitable. We can't say we were wrong about that. The fact that we had to introduce the accreditation process ourselves, when such large newspapers are being created, then the risks are always great, and especially because we have a common problem in transition societies where reforms in education or any reform are being carried out with holders of these reforms that have not been reformed. You have people who have spent thirty years and are fully formed in the old system of higher education and then they are captains of the ship reform education and then up to three hours speak, or represent the needs of reforms, and after three hours, when they drink a little, then they talk, but there's no way in us, there's no way, it won't live in 30 years. We have, in fact, entered into a cloudy time in terms of reform of higher education and especially accreditation. This cloudy weather lasted especially between 2005 and 2017. In a cloudy time, you know who's doing the best he can. So, those who see at night and when it's cloudy. They caught the helm of higher education through the accreditation commission and were certainly key profits because they introduced themselves as know-it-alls, they only knew Bologna, they interpreted Bologna, they interpreted accreditation, they replaced themselves at the head of the accreditation commission, one mandate of the duke, the second term of serdar, so again, you, me, I to you. When you follow that team that led the accreditation from 2005 to 2017, it's all about godmother, it's all about you, I'm your son's mentor, you're my son's mentor, I'm your daughter, you're my daughter, and they're holding on, and there's really a nervousness in that group that I've been calling on various occasions a kind of oligarchy in high education, there's a nervousness of changes and additions to the law in 2017, when we sort of manage to save the accreditation body, or we're introducing an official accreditation body. But what exactly are we going to do about it? Let's sort of lift the monopoly. Whose monopoly? A group monopoly. What group? An interesting group that presents itself how? She presents herself to the representatives of the academic community. They're an academic community, they interpret the attitudes of the academic community, they're hiding behind the formulation of the academic community, they're hiding behind the autonomy of the university and their relationship and the reason with the state is just to take money, because the government is the founder of state universities and colleges. After that, when you ask them where you spent that money, they say you don't respect university autonomy. When you ask them for certain standards, they say you're jeopardizing university autonomy, that they're sovereign. No, gentlemen. So it's sovereignly high education, it's sovereign. It is a sovereign academic quality, and individuals, at the same time, are professors and scientists and people and members of the class and members of the academic community. Please, somebody explain to me where there is a line between the individual's personal interest, between the interest of a class of academic community who has ambition through a particular group to hold a monopoly in higher education. Where is this border and the bounds of the academic community, or academic freedom? They have abolished these borders and simply with their vise of manipulations that are mostly followed by corruption, and believe it is not a little difficult to prove. We tried from the position of the Education Committee a few years ago to look for some documentation from the accreditation committee. There's no paperwork. The answer is, they can't find it. So, you have general chaos in the accreditation commission between 2005 and 2017. Lost entire packages of documentation, actually not lost, dumped, disposed of, because there was a kind of crime and corruption, and in addition to hiding that file, the moment the state wants special law enforcement authorities, believe me, they can catch those culprits, and that's something they shouldn't give up at all. So, after 2017 we made a certain step. Then what happened? And these ENKVA remarks, I want you to know what their background is. Part of the background of ENKVA remarks is objective, so we failed to remove everything in 2017. I will remind you how many times I have personally, as well as the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in this House have indicated that we are late with some answers to ENKVA's request, but that is not understood then, let's see, we'll sort it out. So part of ENKVA's remarks is objective, part of ENKVA's remarks was sent from Serbia. I'm telling you here to know, you check it out. We had at one point members of the former regime and the work of this oligarchy that I am talking about, a certain Sofia Pekic who was a member of the ENKVA board in Brussels and who worked from that position to the maximum to get Serbia out of ENKVA, so that its mandate was not renewed. Why? To prove that you new people who came in 2016 are unable to manage accreditation. So these are your truths, check them out, and then there's a negative promotion of Serbia, or its higher education, and that's why we had a very rigid relationship with ENKVA on these remarks. Of course, let the remarks come, the ones that were founded we're going to correct, we're actually doing it right now, but again, keeping what's real quality. That's why they tried through objections that were the government's excessive participation in the accreditation process, it was one of the objections. She was founded in that, come on, we'll have a second-degree decision by the Board of Appeal to be independent. It's okay, but that commission should be chosen by competition, not by name again, or by implicit choice by representatives of the so-called. academic communities, read academic oligarchies, or stocks, or groups. So these are the details we didn't allow the monopoly to return. It's okay, the academic community as an expert community only through the profession should have an impact on the accreditation process, but not as an interesting vertical. Monopoly must not be allowed. What is now being developed and resolved by this law is the balance between the academic community, between the state, through government and parliament, between the student community and between the economic community, or a wider society. Accreditation, universities, decision on their existence and sovereignty is a national state resource and it cannot be owned by a group of people hiding behind the academic community. Monopoly is evil in every sense and that is why it is very important that this balance where no one can have a complete primate. Let the academic community invest in expertise. The state is the founder of most universities and of course it is responsible for its institutions, because it is funding them and it should be held accountable through all of this. So now we're making a big step. It is good that the focus on quality, on quality assurance, is good that theological sciences are introduced officially to the doors of the law and that they... True, we have not completed this process, this is another step, because we had this issue of higher education theology, so far unofficially represented through the Faculty of Education of the University of Belgrade, which was the only link of theology with the law, i.e. with higher education in the official sense. Now we have some kind of transparent legalization of all this. The truth is we haven't been able to complete this process, and it's waiting for us in some new change of law. We have in principle established high school institutions of traditional churches and religious communities, which we have admitted, legalized. But what is missing is that we also provide a practical and organisational same right guaranteed by the Constitution and guaranteed by this law to other churches and religious communities, because we now have a situation in which the Faculty of Education through the University of Belgrade is financed 100% from the budget, while other theological colleges are legal and legitimate from traditional churches and religious communities are not funded in the budget of the state. The excuse is that they are not a member of some university whose founder is state. That can't be an excuse for the right guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws. We must find a moderity in which other theological universities of traditional churches and religious communities will have the same opportunity to be financed by the state because all citizens are equal. The equality of churches and religious communities is guaranteed by both the Constitution and the laws, and it is waiting for us and we have to prepare ourselves for that, because there was not enough time to actually solve this through all aspects and this moment through this law. With all this in mind, we are taking a serious step forward and should support this law on the Law on Student Organization because we have received certain reasoned objections to the Committee. So there's a possibility that we'll have some committee amendment, which we don't rule out if that's necessary. But in any case, because of all these qualities and these moments I have spoken of, the MPs of our group, or MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, will give support to these laws in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7738	I thank Vice President Zukorlic. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda as soon as possible. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7739	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, distinguished ministers with associates, respected citizens of our country, under higher education means academic training at one of our country's higher education institutions in college, high school or academy. A system of higher education in our country, as we know, has been governed by the 2017 Higher Education Act, which today should perfect some decisions and some changes, and that is a good thing. This law is in line, and it is very important to say, with the Bologna Education System, or the Bologna Declaration, which was adopted in 1999 and signed by 27 ministers of the EU Educational Countries, and the main objective of the Declaration is to create a single European system of university education and research through the Bologna Process. That's what's most important, that we be part of a single European system in the university teaching, in scientific research, because that, you'll agree with me, is probably the most advanced system that exists on this planet. Some of the goals of higher education in Serbia have been defined by the Law and higher education, which are primarily the number of increases in academic citizens in Serbia, transfer of knowledge and skills, increase in numbers, allow individuals to be educated on equal terms and throughout life. The main task of what we are doing today, which is to amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education, is to enable us to become a full member of "European Association for Quality Adversities in Higer Education" or ENQA, which is the EU body that promotes European co-operation and provides quality to higher education institutions, participates in the dissemination of information, knowledge and experience among members and other actors. Well said the minister, for us it is extremely important, since I think we have a very good education system and it is a matter of prestige to be a member of this very important body again. In 2020, the national body for the accreditation of our state for the quality of higher education has lost full membership in the European Association and will be able to re-commence in 2022 for this status and therefore it is very important that all the suggestions they have given us, and I think they are absolutely reasonable and all in favour of our education system, we implement in our legislative framework. We currently, as I said, have the status of associate member of this European organisation. Of course it does not make our diplomas not valid, however, the process of checking our diplomas goes through a long-term path and now it is necessary that our students deliver programmes and plans to which they are educated, etc., which will not be the case with the re-becoming of this organization. The amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which today are ahead of us, have been made too much for Serbia to return to full membership of this association. These changes will eliminate all existing shortcomings, which are that members of the National Council are appointed by the National Assembly. That, in my opinion, is very good. The National Assembly as the most representative representative of the views and opinions of our citizens is someone who should worry about it, and it is not the government of the Republic of Serbia and it will not be the government of the Republic of Serbia, as it has been so far. The appeal procedure for accreditation will be moved from the National Council for Higher Education to the National Accreditation Body. In doing so, the Management Board for the National Accreditation Body, which numbers nine members, will appoint the National Assembly, taking into account the representation of members of both sexes. And that's very important. You see, government and Assembly are being replaced, or institutions and mutual control among institutions, which is one of the criteria and the best mechanisms in general for the control that exists in the political system. The most important aspect of this proposal is certainly to fully regulate the status of the national accreditation body as an independent institution. This is something that we must insist on ourselves and something that has shown the best result in the European system. So, once again, we would ensure that our diplomas, or diplomas issued by our universities, are fully in line with European standards and that in no way can we question the quality of diplomas issued by accredited universities in Serbia. This law also opens up new opportunities for study. It opens up the possibility that basic vocational or basic academic studies can go to master vocational studies and it is added that this mainly refers to MBA studies that are very popular today. So MBA studies are "Master of Business Administration" studies and internationally recognised studies, aimed at developing the practical business skills needed in the field of business management. In other words, the purpose of MBA judges would be to improve their own work and to combine science and best practice. MBA studies are mostly enrolled by people who have their own companies and want to improve their business, as well as those who want to advance their careers to management positions and improve their management skills. MBA studies are currently the most popular academic programme in the world and on a global scale there are over two and a half thousand different MBA programs. They were first introduced at American universities, but in time their programme adapted to new labour market needs. It usually takes two years, but lately there's been one-year colleges. The best way to MBA studies would be basic studies, master studies, work experience, and then MBA studies. For us from the Social Democratic Party, this is very important because we believe that the education system should, above all, be focused on the acquisition of new knowledge that meets the needs of the market. Co-operation between higher education and economy is necessary. I am pleased that two members are elected within the National Council on a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce, as well as two members of the Management Board of the State Accreditation Body. This close co-operation between the economy and higher education is a momentum that needs to and must run our industry and our society forward. Of course it is provided for by this law, and this must not be forgotten and stressed, an extension of the deadline for another year for students who studied according to the rules applicable until 2005. Of course, these are not students who have enrolled only basic studies, but also those who have enrolled master's studies and students who have applied for doctoral dissertation. Once again, one more time we're going out to meet these people to be able to complete their educational path that started under other conditions in the next year. That's very correct and good information for them. The law on student organisation is also very important for us and for the first time before the MEPs of the Republic of Serbia. We in particular underline the desire to unify ourselves with the European space of higher education through the development of education in Serbia by 2020. Currently in the field of student organisation, the Law on Higher Education is applied, which regulates student organisation through student conferences and student parliaments, however, does not settle the issue of a number of student organisations closer. Student organisations are not just student parliaments and student conferences. I know that in 2005, the Bologna Programme practically established student parliaments, but while I was studying, there were much more important and important organisations. I'm glad that today with one roof law, which I must say, they have all the countries in the region, and that's another one of, let me say, affirmative things that should encourage us to praise what we need to adopt today. While I was studying there were, and there are probably still today, and we are doing this law to organize them, many other student organisations, above all, those who deal with journalism and which are very important. They were important and highly developed in SFRY, so I will remind you that in one student magazine “Vitica”, whose editor-in-chief was Danilo Kiš, published, for example, our Pekic, that these are very fruitful organizations that travel the path of these young people. Besides, there are sports organizations, sports teams. We've had sports leagues. There are also organizations of cultural-academic societies, etc. I think that the current situation that has created a number of problems in the field, which have been seen, first of all, in unequal practice, which is a rule of direct distinction between students in Serbia, or at the university who are studying, will no longer be the case, that is again, to say, a kind of discrimination against students, one of these laws will unify all students and give them the same opportunities to organise in organisations in the way that this law determines and which is the most appropriate to students. Also, there has been a lack of compliance of the student organisation system with European standards in this area. As the main cause of this discrepancy is the lack of a law that would define the system of student organisation. That's what we're doing with this law today. In European practice, the tendency to independence of student representative bodies is expressed in relation to higher education institutions, but also in relation to the state. This proposal for a law on student organisation would solve decades of problems in this area and would give the framework and the possibility of full participation of students in the organisation defined by this law. According to European standards, one of the main conditions of membership in the European Student Union is the legitimacy and representativeness of representative bodies. Until now, there has always been a danger of questioning membership in Serbia in this European Student Union for these very reasons. This bill introduces order in the work of student conferences and national student organisations and provides the representativeness needed to represent Serbia in this European Student Union. It should be noted that about 250,000 students in Serbia have an unequal system of organisation. He says, some students are privileged in relation to other students towards the university and the university where they study and it creates a huge difference and can have elements of discrimination. That, of course, by adopting one of these laws, we will eliminate. It should be noted, and I have already said that almost all countries in the region have this law. Another positive thing about this proposal is that this law does not have a measure of ban and restrictions, but rather a law that in itself promotes the promotion of nature, because it defines the basic concepts, institutes and directions of the movement of student organisation, establishing the principles of freedom and independence of student representatives. I would like to say that the ministry has also organised quality preparations for the adoption of this law and that during 2019 and 2020, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has repeatedly consulted with student representatives who have worked together and prepared this draft on student organisation. He stemmed from agreements reached at these consultations. Before the public hearing, the text of the draft law was also sent to the Conference of the University and the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies and Higher Schools, which had no objections to the text delivered. I must also say to refer to this, given that I am president of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, that the Commissioner for Equality has participated in the creation of this document and that almost all opinions of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality have been taken into account and most of them have been implemented in this bill. For example, it is very important that one of the proposals was adopted to bring the termology into practice, and the Commissioner suggested that the termology change students with disabilities, to use, to say, the syntagma of students with disabilities, and this was adopted by following the way in which we used terminology in the latest laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the laws that we did in this assembly. Also, the Trustee for the Protection of Equality has also had suggestions in the way in which funds are provided. It was proposed that these student organisations have mandatory fees as compulsory membership fees, which the Trustee indicated was against the constitution and that this was not in accordance with our laws and there was a solution that, in addition to the funds for the work of student conferences, which are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia according to the law of the student conference, they were funded also on the basis of domestic and international projects, implemented activities, income of their own property, gifts, sponsorship, donations, etc., of course, in accordance with the law. I want to say that this law, which today is very affirmative, very modern today, provides great opportunities for our students and is ultimately brought into co-operation with a large number and with the opinion of a large number and student organisations, as well as other institutions that have been concerned that this law is of great quality in its content. Of course he is practically a sublime experience that European countries have with the best practices around us. In the end, I'd like to say that we in the SDPS pay extraordinary attention to students and education. For us education is practically the main basis and the main tool for our country's development. In Novi Pazar a few years back, the city grants scholarships to the best students who live and who have a place in the territory of the town of Novi Pazar. Students and their mentors who won prestigious competitions are also rewarded, i.e. one of the first three places in competitions in the country, students of generations, primary and secondary schools, but also teachers and teachers working in difficult country conditions are assisted. This is one practice that the mayor and the city of Novi Pazar have several years back and that gives good effects, although the city budget is strong, I say, small in terms of overall needs, there are opportunities and means to give these people and the best among them a signal that quality education is something to invest in and something that we insist on in the SDP. Once again, the laws are excellent, I commend you, Minister, and your associates, and it will be our pleasure to support both laws in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7740	Thanks, buddy. The word is made by MP Dragan D. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7741	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, JS will support these two bill proposals, and we also want to suggest to you something that has been present in life for the past 20 years. Before the registration year starts to give information, the statistical data is taken out, to tell future students which direction will have a secure job, or that there is an opportunity to get a job, because one thing is what you like as a young man and the other is whether your future can be realized in the profession and college that you end up with, because every day I encounter such problems where a number of students end up some directions that are professional and just want to work in the profession. Furthermore, the education of students when they graduate, propose or introduce some obligation with private companies so that these students who have nothing out of practice and no one will receive any student who has graduated from college and said – here, on the basis of professional training, you have 90 thousand dinars of salary, but to see what they know. When he goes to practice after college, there he will learn what he may not have known and that this employer, of 10 or 20 as many candidates as there are in each company, says – you five are good, I will keep you, and the rest of you need something else to do, etc. This is missing at the moment, given that a lot of factories and businesses are opening up in Serbia and that this possibility exists. There's dual education, but not for all directions in high school, so dual education... I'm sure we'll have professional young people in the future when they finish high school. What else is important? There is autonomy for students when it comes to these two laws, i.e. the first draft laws. Students can decide to make a student parliament, and before that, there was, but these students must be committed to collective decision, not to be personally entrusted to someone like Gilas. You remember when they were those student demonstrations where he promised all the students that it would be much better just for him to be their representative and where Dragan Gilas is today, how many million euros there are, and how many students there are then and today... I don't know where these people are doing and what they're doing, but I'm sure they had good intentions and trusted that one cellocolonist who showed that he worked for himself. Students, young people for Unique Serbia are the law and we have to respect them. And I'm not just saying that for 14 years, or for 15 years, students who finish fourth grade, eighth grade from Jagodina go to the sea in Montenegro for free, and those who finish high school go to the sea for free. Because of the relations and decisions of Montenegrin politicians, not ordinary people in Montenegro, I think of Montenegrins who are good and those who plead as Serbs, we have now rerouted students who finish the fourth and eighth grade to go to Greece to sea with one of the parents, since they are underage children. Also, we fight that young people and Serbian minds don't go to the white world. I fought to take the students on a trip to a European state, and I did so until a year and a half ago until the crown entered Serbia. Every year, 700 people went to Vienna, and we provided donors, like the city of Jagodina. Why Vienna? Because it's geographically close to us. A large number of Serbs, or Serbian citizens, are working in Vienna, and this is the largest student town outside Serbia. The city of Vienna in Europe is the largest Serbian student town. Most students, you know, from Serbia, from the former republics are right in Vienna and there is no division there – you are, I don't know, Bosniak, I'm a Serb, you're a Montenegrin. They're all the same, which is especially nice to me, because when I go to Vienna, those students come to me to take pictures with me and I want to talk to them, because the best information from the first hand is always direct. That conditions are much better for schooling students today, they are also higher salaries for their parents, higher pensions for their grandparents, because both grandparents and grandparents have to finance sometimes, to help students, students, etc. And it's not the same as it was 10 years ago. We in Serbia have many directions. There were words here about accreditation. I know three or four high schools, which are private, and they don't have credentials. There's one college in Jagodina that doesn't have accreditation, and if those colleges and high schools have been working for years and they're taking some kids on the road, why shouldn't they be given credentials? If it's already allowed to work, then they should get credentials, because who's the worst? Those parents, kids, etc. We, for example, had, I don't want to mention what college it was, but over 100 students graduated from college and got a degree, and he has no accreditation, which is not good, because four years are long, and that's what parents and those kids didn't know when they got into college, but they're good directions in that college. A large number of them are now working in Serbia, but if they went somewhere to represent a company now, it would be viewed differently when it comes to accreditation. If I were to ask myself, JS, we would allow high school students to have the same rights as students, to have a school parliament, their own organization, etc. You have to know one fact, 90% of young people, let's say 13 years old and over, they don't watch a single television program and they don't read the news, because for them it's politics. It's not politics today what happened in your country, I don't know, it opens up a factory, and it's life. It is not politics if the president of the United States has received the president of Serbia to discuss very important issues. It's not politics. It is the life of every man in Serbia and to see how we, not to commit them, simply reroute them, how much time it takes, when it is already on social networks, to go to an app called the "media house" and find out what it is yesterday, today and yesterday it was in his country. Next, Mr. Minister, there's nothing to do on foot anymore, it's said in an accounting pen, and we're going to have a problem in the future, you know, because I don't want to tell you how kids do today and everything goes over the computer, from the multiplication table, and so on. Here, let me give you an example, we've been taking seasonal three-month workers when the tourist season is in Jagodina and I haven't had a chance to ask them a multiplication table, since they sell ice cream, one waiter, a young guy, works in a restaurant, three months between the second and third year of high school and I go and say, since this ice cream, the one on the tree "Snowman", says - 70 dinars, give me eight ice creams. And that girl takes a cell phone to figure out how much she costs. I say no, you have to do this. I'm saying, what if someone comes to buy you eight ice creams, so who says they can buy eight ice creams, but only you? Of course, I smile there, ask her to learn the multiplication table. In three days, she called my office and learned. This guy who was a waiter, and through a fiscal account, everything's ticking, so he doesn't even have to know the multiplication table, I'm asking him -- how many times is eight, he answered me right away -- probably over 60. It's true, you know, it's true, and these young people want to learn, and they're smart kids, but they're allowed a computer, a cell phone, and it's going to, how much digitalization is needed in Serbia, and we're getting an artificial mind, and we're losing our natural brains, because if you're in your time, it's like if someone's supposed to start doing sports in 35 years, and you're starting to do sports since you're seven, eight years old, etc... So that's the biggest problem right now. Furthermore, children do not correct themselves, especially in Pomorava County, when they correspond to geography, history, but I do not know from which other cases, only when doing a written task from Serbian. Then we have some problems when there's a public appearance, etc. Because at home you talk like that, at school you talk like that. So each of the teachers, from teachers, from teachers, regardless of the subject of his Serbian language, has to correct the children and say, it's not said that your dad works at the factory, but your dad works at the factory. It's a liquid problem. We used to have an inspection. She came to school, unannounced, and there's no inspection where the director tells him, which department, but where they want and don't ask the great students, but they ask the others. So at this point, it's a problem in our school, in our colleges. What else is the biggest problem? No sports activities, no. There's no sports activity. We're a country of talent for all sports, and these students first have conditions to deal with sports, a lot of sports halls, sports courts there are, wherever they enroll in college, there's not a single object that would tie it up, there used to be skating and swimming. Physically, there must be 250,000 of us students, as many as we have, so how are we going to choose... I don't know what Mr. Zukorlic is laughing about, whether it's physical or what. I didn't hear you, turn on the microphone to hear what you said... (President: Because of music, not physical. Because of the music? He's got music. He's in elementary school. Look, if we want to be a healthy nation, look, go where the parks are, where they run, find me someone to run who's less than 50. There isn't. You go to a doctor and if you are sick, 70% of the diseases you have a doctor advises you to walk and that you can be a little physically active. I didn't know that Mufti was so unserious when he spoke to an MP and talked about accreditation, where his problem was to laugh when the MP was talking, which is wrong, and I didn't blame you. So, Mr. Minister, we need to see how to help every university and every university that what is the future of this country and how to stop young people and the Serbian mind and that of all citizens, all Serbian students to stay here in Serbia and thank God there are jobs, many factories are open and many factories are on hold, foreign investors, who own these factories, to come and open factories in Serbia. What else is the problem? There must be some tolerances for students who have a family problem so he didn't have time to give all the classes of the second year in order to be able to enroll the third, I think 48 points were, that there was a commission if there was a higher power, and the higher power was, far away, a family problem or something else, to assess the commission and say 100 demands 30, 30 students meet the conditions so they could pass those two exams more than they were allowed, because if we, you know, don't let those families, and these are families that are in an economically difficult situation, he'll leave the university and spend his father for two years, and go back to the city where he came from, and that he doesn't work with high school, etc. So that there is one mild tolerance not in the evaluation and criteria when it comes to grades, but in giving the opportunity to say – we will help this, etc. What else is important? That these student parliaments have autonomy and that student parliaments never abuse any party, take them to the streets, which is usually done by the opposition. The institutions are these and addresses where the student parliament or universities should say what they have and think that some injustice has been done, some individual has done or some institution, not that we have student demonstrations over something. Maybe the students are right, but if they're right, the moment they get granted what they're looking for, if they're not to be explained that they're not. Students must be respected, children, students and those who are both in high school and elementary school. Of course, they don't think like students who are 18. I don't know either, we have students, I say – which class you are, which year, says – seventh year and third grade. We've got one of those. That means he likes to study a man a little more. George didn't understand what that meant. So all in all these two draft laws are good. Unique Serbia will support them, because young people who finish colleges, be sure that each of these students can contribute something to their country. To reduce the attendance of students, or those who graduate from colleges in other countries. And here's an example of us, when we were in Vienna, at 11 o'clock in the evening, you don't have one man on Ketern Street, it's the main street in Vienna, and come to Prince Michael's or go into another street somewhere to see. So it's not the same way of life. She gets out on the weekends. I don't mind if someone has that power to come out at 11:00 at 4:00, 5:00 a.m., and get up at 8:00, okay? I've lived like that all my life. I loved him as a young man, but my father woke me up at six o'clock in the morning. We made bricks, we had tractors, construction machines, and you're going to work. You come in at 6:00, and you have to work all day tomorrow, and that's how we create a working habit. Our students, young people want to work, but you have to reroute him, tell him. They don't have to do what we did, the hard life was ours, and there were no cell phones, no social networks, nothing, and today they have everything. Online teaching, that's when the higher power was, this crown. Who the hell learns what online? Learn what? I've got five students in the house, online from home. Who's going to control him if he's going to give them a notebook, if he's going to prescribe it, etc. At school, they're called rifles. And he doesn't need guns at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7742	National MP Markovic, since you are a serious MP who spoke competently about accreditation, distinguish smiles from laughter. A smile is a wonderful thing that people point to one another, and you stole a smile that was directed to your colleague Milicevic, so keep it in mind and hold on to qualifications, serious, unserious in this home, that it is simply not appropriate. And now Minister Branko Ruzic has the need to speak. Here you go. (Dear D. Markovic: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7743	I didn't expect you to look at me. I'm not a handsome man, he's visually handsome George, he's our beauty, and that's why I'm always taking someone nice to sit next to me, to distract you from the vitals, and I didn't blame you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7744	Beauty is in the eye of the observer and it's a matter of taste, and taste is not discussed. In fact, you can find a much nicer way to draw attention to yourself than this way. Thanks anyway. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7745	Thank you. First of all, simply offered by these discussions, not only Mr Dragan Markovic, but also Mr Zukorlic and Mr Bačevac, I would like to conclude that, in all these discussions, the importance of these two legislative proposals that really treat very important topics, and from the point of view of what is really valuable in Mr Markovic's discussion, I would simply like to point out that, on the basis of what has been presented in his speech, that the state has been developing dual education for many years, that we have a high dual and in this regard, I would say very significant steps in this direction. As far as secondary education is concerned, we have 54 dual educational profiles and this very dual education is a tool that can come to the ideal that Mr. Markovic was just talking about, which is to bring the labour market and the education system into line in a way that we know what the needs of the labour market are, what are the needs of companies that you have rightly said come here in Serbia thanks to one of the really serious policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think we have positive examples all over Serbia, whether we are talking about Nis, above all about Novi Sad, where we have excellent examples of precisely dual education in practice. In that sense, there is no fear that it will be satisfied. As for online teaching or digital tools used in education, we live in the 21st century and it is natural not to use abacus for example for a multiplication table or for addition. There's that funny joke -- I like to add it up, especially to multiply it, but I like to share it much less, but it's jokes. As for the really educational educational work, the acquisition of working habits, socialization, that's where I agree with Mr. Markovic, it's most important during that period from preschools and in the first cycle from first to fourth grade primary school. I think that, in this sense, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has shown in these extraordinary circumstances a high degree of responsibility, given that children in kindergartens and children in the first cycle attended classes in a traditional way, although in schools they were divided into two groups. This is what the Ministry's relationship with all the teaching and other tools we use to avoid, I would say a failure in the education work itself and the process and the process of gaining knowledge. Of course, we look at online teaching and at all these digital tools as a tool that will be used in some future time. I think it can only be one kind of support. Of course, that direct contact between students and students and professors and students and teachers is something that is the most important ambience and environment to gain knowledge and to see some educational content, but in any case this is a valuable and useful tool in the 21st century where things go much faster than in some earlier times. It is also a fact that students of younger age have long been digitally described from that aspect, this industrial revolution that is under way should not lead to dehumanisation of society, but should certainly serve as a tool. If we don't follow that trend, then we're gonna lose a lot. Again on the other side, I agree that we must preserve our identity. So in this situation in the educational education system, I wouldn't say that there are any concerns in that sense. As for the course of physical or physical education, I would say that we have been fighting this battle for a long period of time and that we have a lot of potential obesity, various other malformations in children, but it is important to point out that indeed according to the program, in an adequate way we have defined the number of lessons and that in these years we have now had this problem because of the coronal virus, but that the system itself is set up so that there is no kind of deficiency. Also, inspection supervision or educational advisors who work in a way that practically assists in the implementation of educational training work, of course performs inspection or evaluation of externals in the system are indeed a valuable part of our system. I think he knows it very well, come on now I'm going to say our colleague from the system, Mr. Life Starcevic, who's been in a very good way for many years in this job in the Pomorava County, so I think there's always room to improve certain things, but in these circumstances it's very important to look at the real situation, a real picture. When you say that, thank God, there are five children who are of school age and God forbid in Serbia that in many houses, online teaching should be truly perceived as a tool that helped not a single day in the education of these previous one and a half school years be threatened, so that this process of learning is not compromised. We have reduced certain content, given instructions, expert opinions, rules on what needs to be reduced, what is the essence, what knowledge needs to be shared with children, and I think it was one big fight and above all, teachers, but also outside of teaching staff, but certainly children and it is important to understand parents, including grandparents, who were all actors of that process and were all in that chain. I will conclude by starting today a final test from the Serbian language, i.e. the native language and literature in all 247 schools with over 12,000 controllers, 12,700 browsers, 1,700 supervisors, along with assistance and the MUP and of course, "The Post of Serbia". All these tests were sent to all the checkpoints during yesterday at 31 points, then distributed by schools. Police officers will be present these three days from zero to 24. So that's one big, I'd say, systematic venture that every year, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, we're promoting and I think it's very important, because this time it's about 68,000 of our children, our little eighth-graders, who are the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7746	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Dragan Markovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7747	It's all good what you said, and this isn't starting with you, it's starting with the last few years. You said 700 and some supervisors, inspectors, police are controlling the children. Wait, if those kids have finished primary school and now they don't know anything, the police need to control them so they don't put in any paper, etc., like they're, I don't know, locked up some money or some kind of product that's of suspicious origin. So, I don't like that principle at all, and I don't know where it came from now, like, uh, here came the police, came and the supervisors from Belgrade, from Nis, I don't know where, and how much does that day cost Serbia? When we add up all that money, then we can say, let's cut the tuition to be 1,000 euros, in some colleges it's 800 or I don't know what. What are they going to control that day? What? What that kid and that girl haven't learned in eight years, and now they're going to rewrite that test they're going to take and get a number of points to get into some college they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7748	Thank you. The next one's the minister. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7749	I don't think we understand each other, today's final test in elementary schools, so, little eighth grade graduates, the police aren't in the classrooms, the police are in charge of escorting these tests that are distributed to 31 points. During yesterday, it was done. Supervisors are not externally funded, they're teachers, they're also reviewers, so there's no cost in that sense. I can't agree that any child or any child in eight years of learning has learned nothing during primary school education, shows their knowledge of how well it's acquired in a way that's regulated by law. Today Serbian language or native language and literature, tomorrow is mathematics, the day after tomorrow is a combined test of biology, physics, chemistry, history and geography. I wish these children a lot of success, parents a little more understanding, less stress, tension, and there's no such thing, if it was an intensity to conclude, there are no restrictive or rigid measures other than those that try to devalue the work of an entire army of people in education who have been preparing these tests from institutions through teachers who do so. So, in that sense, there's really no problem at all. I thank you, of course, and everyone has the right to not like or like any process or operating system, it's natural.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7750	I thank Mr. Secretary. Next is MP Nandor Kish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7751	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as an authorised representative, I would like to stress that the SVM parliamentary group will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education and the Proposal for a Law on Student Organization. As we have heard in the introduction of the Honorable Minister, the greatest focus in the amendment and addition of the Higher Education Act is on accreditation and how the National Council is chosen. This election is becoming a new function of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the SVM parliamentary group welcomes this decision, as it is important that the appointment be taken from the executive authority and return to the highest representative body of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly. So student organisations play an important role in presenting students' interests, aimed at being a bridge or a communication channel between students and university administration. We can say that they are precisely aimed at following and serving the daily needs of students in a classical sense, but we must not forget the officials of an organization that represents the interests of students. During my studies, of course, I regularly had contact with the student parliament of the Faculty of Economics in Subotica. In the last 15, 20 years, one of the biggest challenges for our community has been to stop the outflow of our students from the Republic of Serbia abroad. As one way to alleviate it, it was to look for reasons why young duchy Hungarians decided to leave the country after completion of secondary education. What we learned was the fact that young people were enrolled in universities in the EU, mostly in Hungary and after studying there. So we began to invest more and more energy and effort in the fact that our students have better conditions to study here in the Republic of Serbia where they graduated from high school. In the last few decades, we have done everything in our power to motivate the young duchy Hungarians to stay and study in their own country. In 2011, the National Council of Hungarian National Minorities began a system of scholarship students of between 100,000 and 150 euros in dinar versus the value of the month, and it is constantly going on. In addition to the general conditions for competition, the condition is that the applicants have completed primary or secondary education in the Hungarian language and continue their studies in the Republic of Serbia. Over the years, scholarships have expanded into a complex scholarship system that now provides great help to students and provides the possibility that regardless of potential language difficulties will be ready for their academic studies. They have organized preparations for the admission exams from all cases, they can enroll in almost any college they would like to attend in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The next big step is for the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority to organise an intensive language course on which the application is free and voluntary, which is also very useful for some students from the north of Vojvodina or from the Potiska region. The latest part of the scholarship system is that since this year, the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority has provided a scholarship for lawyers of around 30,000 dinars per month, which wants to distract the duchy Hungarians from choosing the path of a lawyer and helping their community with their knowledge. In addition to money donations and organised preparation programmes for studies since 2015, the student home of Europe in Novi Sad has been opened, which receives students from Vojvodina who attended classes during primary or secondary education in the Hungarian language. The home has a capacity of 400 places that has been fully exploited. The rooms provide the best conditions for students. Inside the home are workshops from several items that serve the needs of students. They have the opportunity to advance and expand their knowledge and participate in international competitions from their profession. The highest level of presentation of students in the home is the student organisation Presentation of the interests of students at home “Europe”. The organization works exclusively inside the home and works to adapt the work of students and employees and deals with organising events for students at home. The current situation allows members of the Hungarian national minority to join the higher and higher education system of the Republic of Serbia under favourable conditions and to complete their studies with all possible conditions with good success and to join the labour market. Finally, I would like to stress once again that the SVM parliamentary group will support the draft legislation on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7752	I thank Mr. Kisha. The next MP is Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7753	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Minister Ruzic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, are discussing two laws in the field of education today, and this proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted by the government and a new one in the whole of the law, the draft law on student organisation, which was also submitted by the government. At the very beginning, as an authorised representative of the PUPS-Tri P parliamentary group, I would point out that the PUPS-Tri P parliamentary group in the voting day will give its support to these legal solutions and vote for these draft laws. When we talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted by the Government, I would refer to some proposed changes in this proposal which certainly contribute to improving some previous text and improving the working conditions to which it relates. I think it is a good thing that the specificity of the Orthodox Faculty of Godoslovakia is recognised and that it is now explained by law that studying and teaching at this university requires the blessing of the Serbian Orthodox Church, in order to avoid certain misunderstandings that occurred in the previous period. It is certainly a newspaper and a good clarification, that is, defining specific things. This change in any case does not affect the already existing autonomy of universities and scientific work, but only the existing practice that has existed for centuries at this specific university is being subdued under legal provisions. The law specifically provides that the Orthodox Faculty of God will have to precisely regulate the procedure for possible withdrawal of consent, so that the reason for the withdrawal of the blessing for work is clearly prescribed, the participation of this very university in the process and the right to declare the teachers or students to whom it is decided. On the other hand, we already know which way we are facing the question of old prebolone students and deadlines to finish their studies. Neither I nor our PUPS-Tri P parliamentary group have any objection to these deadlines being extended and now, but we have already made our point more than once that we must finally take a concrete position, so either these deadlines in the law and formally abolish, or that if it is not decided then finally clearly and said that they will no longer be extended, as was the case with the old doctors, because I don't think these permanent extensions at the last minute give any concrete effects in practice, or effectively stimulate someone to actively work on the completion of their studies and therefore we have those students who are long in their studies. As the third important thing in the innovative legal text, it is in addition to Article 93, which regulates the rights of teachers when they leave for retirement, and among other things, the existing legal uncertainty is dealt with precisely, i.e. teachers, regular teachers who have turned 65 and extended employment relationships cannot be elected to college and high school management bodies. However, the very fact, given that an amendment has been submitted to this article, which is also proposed that these teachers may be elected to the authorities after 65 years, I believe it is important to adopt a final position, and it is up to us Members to accept these changes or not. At this point, I don't want to prejudge and suggest what was better, but it certainly needs to be defined once for some longer period to do so and treat these professors who have the opportunity to extend their working life for another two years. Finally, several important changes concern the National Accreditation Body, i.e. its composition, choice and jurisdiction, i.e. enabling and appeal procedures within this very important body dealing with the accreditation of higher education institutions and their programmes. In this regard, we, as MPs, will have a new responsibility to perform certain electoral functions in the management of this body. Certainly the role of the congregation in this regard is now defined. The second law we are discussing today is brand new, and it refers to the field of student organisation. This area is small in its work arranged in the existing Law on Higher Education, but with only a few views within one single member of the law. The new law regulates the area in a much more detailed way in Article 2 provides that forms of student organisation, in addition to existing student parliaments and student conferences and student organisations, are the highest forms of organization of the Student Conference of the University. As a field of activity of the conference, consideration of issues of importance for students, harmonisation of views and coordination of activities of student parliaments, selection and resolution of student representatives at the National Council for Higher Education has been defined. The student parliament will retain its responsibilities in relation to the colleges so far, and for the first time it is in art. 10th to 17. A lot of attention is also given to student organisations in a narrow sense, where many of their forms are recognised: student associations, students’ standard associations, students’ associations in their homes as one of the most important, and student organisations with disabilities, which is particularly important in terms of child care, or students with disabilities. What is very important is that the process of setting up these organizations, their registration and their work will now be precisely regulated, and that is in line with the provisions of the Association Law. I think it's a good thing this bill now creates conditions for their far more transparent work and control of this work by the university and university. So much can be expected to make them more committed to their establishment and purpose, which is to improve the position of students. Since we believe it is a good legal proposal from the PUPS Group - "Tri P" will give its full support for their adoption in the voting day. Also, the PUPS Parliamentary Group - "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session and vote for. With a greeting, once again, the minister and gratitude for editing these legal solutions, respected friends, respected citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7754	Thank you, Mr. Stosic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7755	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Education, Technological Development, Mrs Dukic Mijatovic, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, do not mind me, but I purposely point out that we respect gender equality, because I know what your contribution to the work of the Minister has been to make these two extremely important legislative proposals, and I would like to point out this especially today. So today's discussion shows that I would agree at the very beginning with the Minister's conclusion that the importance of these two legislative proposals is recognised. On the other hand, Mr Zukorlic said in his statement that both legislative proposals had passed a serious debate within the relevant Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, and this is indeed a good credibility that is a matter of consistency and that is a good basis for the Committee's support for further improvement of the system when we talk about these legislative proposals. Dear Minister Ruzic, in just eight months' time since the elections and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, the constitution and formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to which you belong, we have the honour in parliament of having legislative proposals on the agenda, regulations in the field of education. This refers to the dynamics of the area of education, and thus the need to constantly inspect the legislative framework in this particular area. We're doing it today, this time it's a matter of, therefore, higher education and the organisation of students. Before I talk about the legal proposals myself, I would like to point out the importance of education for the development of society and to list some of the results that your Ministry has achieved on this plan. Strategicly observed, education policy is one of Serbia's priorities, because without young and educational people, creative, innovative cannot be any progress of society in general, especially today when modern information societies need new knowledge. Education is as well as employment, a very dynamic area, and therefore it is necessary to keep up-to-date and legislation, but also work in practice. I would remind you that twenty days ago, the government adopted a new education development strategy for the period until 2030, which was prepared by the Ministry of Education at the head of you and your team that you chose. I would remind you that the previous strategy for the period until 2020 was brought at a time when the minister of education was Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Unfortunately for me, he is justifiably absent today, he would certainly be more qualified, more professional and better than I have talked about these legal proposals, but since he is absent during a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I'll try, as much as I can to replace it and make certain suggestions, suggestions when it comes to these legal proposals. Therefore, further development of education in Serbia has been defined through four key strategic objectives, primarily quality, efficiency, relevance and coverage. With a new strategy, our education system at all levels and our education policy is in line with scientific, technical and technological developments and modern movements in society as well as in the economy. I must say that the educational strategy is a valuable integration document that observes education multidisciplinaryly and from all social aspects using other sectoral documents such as, say, the Strategy for the Prevention of Child Violence, the Digital Skills Development Strategy and many other strategic documents. A vision designed by a new strategy is a quality education to achieve the full potential of the population, and especially every child, young person, but also adults. In order to achieve this vision, it is necessary to develop a culture of lifelong learning, transformation of learning, greater media and information literacy, education consistent with the achievements of science, technology and technology. The vision of development involves further work to build a society and economies based above all on the knowledge of a society that cultivates values such as solidarity, respect, respect, respect and strengthen inclusive access to education, which enables quality education for all regardless of diversity, above all. So, no discrimination. In this sense, the strategic focus is the student, i.e. student and development of his abilities through the educational process, the activation of his potential and creative resources. The assumption of this is the modernisation of educational methods and an even better approach to multilateral knowledge. Also, our educational strategy is permanently in line with international documents, which has already been said in this area. These are UN documents, the EU, the Council of Europe, because it is very important for our education to be competitive in the world's knowledge market, which is essentially what it is. This is confirmed by our talents that win awards at all world Olympics, for them we must always find the right place in society, because they are our main moto development, not only when I talk about education, but when we talk about society in general. I would like to commend, I will be too subjective, but I would like to commend your ministry's work, Mr. Ruzic, because despite the pandemic and in this school year, you have provided conditions for the smooth conduct of the educational process, as well as for the passing of the graduation that begins today, as you said, in all schools in Serbia. I'm not talking about numbers, because that's what you're talking about. You've managed to build with a team of experts the strategy I've been talking about and here you are again here with us in Parliament to discuss, I repeat, two important laws from your portfolio. The amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2017, relate to several important segments of university education and are now an improvement of existing legal solutions. As very important, I would like to welcome the change relating to the National Accreditation Body whose responsibility is the accreditation and quality checks of higher school institutions, as well as the evaluation of higher education study programmes. What will certainly improve the competence and responsibility of the accreditation body is the fact that under this bill, the Management Board of the Accreditation Body will now be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will also contribute to the public and transparency of the work of this body. Another newspaper is an increase in the number of members of the accreditation commission, but also that members of this commission will be elected on the basis of a public call, not on the proposal of the National Council for Higher Education. What makes me particularly happy is that the National Assembly will re-elected the National Council for Higher Education. Under the 2017 Higher Education Act, the selection of this important body has been transferred from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that an earlier legal solution should be returned, which gives this authority greater importance and legitimacy, but thus gives greater responsibility. The second amendment I would like to apostrophe refers to the extension of the deadlines for completing the study of students who started these studies according to the old programme, which we call "prebolons" coloquiumally. For many years, these students have been extended deadlines for completing their studies, and all from understanding their problems and from the fact that these students have remained for several exams which would make it a shame to refer them to the start of study in the Bologna process. We believe this time these students, whose deadline has been extended for another school year, will take the opportunity to complete their studies. It is not easy because in the meantime many student modules and profiles have disappeared, there are no more items, and neither are professors of certain items that are no longer present or re-formed or modified. These students extend the deadline for completion, as we understand it, until the end of 2021, or 2022. One of the newspapers in this law is also respecting the specificity of academic theological education, as is the applicable law, the specificity of education of security forces. According to these changes, higher education institutions implementing academic study programmes in the field of theology, one of the traditional churches and religious communities, as a necessary condition for selecting teachers and associates will prescribe the consent of the competent authority of the religious community to choose to call teachers. This legal solution is important because it guarantees the independence of churches in selecting those who will be lecturers in the field of theology because the teaching work in this area is important and other personal features that best, however, recognise church authorities of whatever traditional church or religious community it is and that we are talking about. I'd like to mention two more significant amendments to this law. The first concerns a change that allows a person with completed primary academic studies to continue a higher education at master's professional studies, and the second change concerns the precision of the name regarding the completion of doctoral studies in the field of art, and that name is the doctor of art. Thus, there are doubts about the calling of a person who ends a doctorate in the field of art. To try to recap, when it comes to the first legal proposal. Therefore, the SPS parliamentary group believes that the presence of all academic process participants in the envisaged bodies is important, then the law is gender-equal, transparency in selecting members of the working bodies. It is good that reviewers for projects, as well as our suggestions, that the reviewers for projects and works can also be from abroad because this raises competence, competence and quality of scientific and research work. It is important that the Accreditation Commission can work with quality and openness because it is a guarantee for quality higher education. As for the second legislative proposal that's on the agenda, it's a whole new law. This is the proposal for a law on student organisation, which for the first time legally regulates the issue of organising students at the university, which we consider to be of paramount importance and importance. This law, Mr. Minister, confirms that this issue is being brought seriously and respectfully, primarily by students, our future academics, who should in the future carry Serbia's development and manage our country. It is important today that in an even better way than was the Law on Higher Education, we regulate student organisation, as a student's right to participate in the creation of a higher education policy at their universities and universities. Also, student organisation, as an important factor in higher education, has existed in different forms since the very beginning of higher education in our country, but it is true that it is for the first time more precisely defined by the Law on Higher Education, which introduced the Bologna system of higher education. At that time, an institution of the student parliament was established, which forms a form of student organisation and decision-making on important issues of study and student policy itself. Over time, however, it has been shown that university practice is different in terms of the functioning of student parliaments, in terms of jurisdiction, and in terms of conditions that colleges need to provide to this student organisation. This, first of all, seems to be due to too many general provisions, so it is a good thing that the new law elaborates everything on the ways and conditions of the student organisation. What is good is the arrangement of student organisation and at national level through the work of student conferences and national student organisations as a roof organisation of student organisation. I believe that the new law will positively reflect the democracy of the university and the positioning of what is fundamentally important, and these are students and the achievement of their rights as active participants in creating higher education and achieving student rights, which is one of the fundamental objectives of this law. So, when it comes to this legislative proposal, to try and recapture this in a few sentences, it's important to hear the voice of students, it's important that new generations can influence the teaching process, because they have a better picture of modern society, and it's important that young people are given space to improve their status and in this way they're being made, we're fully convinced, future leaders and this is how academic institutions improve. At the very end, of course, the SPS parliamentary group will support legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7756	The next MP is Vladica Maricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7757	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. Today we have two important laws in the field of higher education. The first is an amendment to the Law on Higher Education, a system law, and the second is a whole new law, a draft law on student organisation. When we say, the law on student organisation, all those who have studied in previous years, and especially those who have been in the system of student organisation, know that the story of the adoption of a law on student organisation is 20 years old. I think that the first working group to draft one of these laws was formed in 2001, and then after that first working group, both the second and third working groups and all those working groups produced some drafts and legal text, but never the legal text entered into the further procedure, it entered the public debate, especially in the procedure before the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This was so until 2018, when your predecessor, Mr. Sarcevic, asked the student representatives from KONUS and KAVS, what is it they needed, and they said the law on student organisation needed to be passed. A very fast working group was formed to draw up a draft of this legal text, which was drafted, and already in early 2019, the Serbian government concluded the draft and established a public debate on the draft law on student organisation, and a public debate was held in Belgrade, the ministry and all major academic centres, in Nis and Novi Sad. There were some useful remarks and proposals to supplement and amend the draft, and after 2019 there was a year of crown, in 2020, when it stopped working on this legislative proposal and at the beginning of this year, the public debate was repeated, and as we could hear it was in the hybrid part, by having representatives of students in the ministry building, and all those who wanted to take part in this public debate for epidemiological reasons could have done so through "zum" applications. Of course, it's a public interest and it's about students, who everybody knows are using new technologies. After the public debate, the draft law went before the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government has established a proposal for legal text, and here today we can discuss one of these laws in the National Assembly. Why is this law important to students? Because it clearly defines what a November organisation is in Serbia. So far, anyone could have defined what student representative bodies are and what student organizations are. In the current Law on Higher Education, we had only two members in one definition of the student parliament and the obligation to conduct elections for the student parliament, and in another member of the law, what are student conferences, without specific reference to their responsibilities, especially what is the rule of the problem for students on the ground, that the law did not provide material and financial resources for the work of student conferences and student parliaments. On the other hand, as far as student organisations are concerned, absolutely no member of any law, nor the Law on Higher Education, nor the Law on Student Standard, it was not defined what student organisations were, which in practice could have caused major problems in application, but also manipulation from those who wanted to use students for some of their goals. So we had frequent media headlines -- students from the organization of this, students from the movement of this, looking for these or those wave political demands that had nothing to do with the higher education system. The fact that we define today the law on student organisation is what student organisations are and directly bind them to higher education institutions on which they operate shows the clear readiness of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give student organisations to students and student organisations to work in the best interests of students. The Law on Student Organization defines two types of student organisation, two types of student organisation. The first are student representative bodies, which are students' parliaments at higher education institutions, and at the level of Serbia's higher education system, they are student conferences. Other types of student organisation are student organisations, which are registered under the Association Act, but which meet specific conditions and the Law on Student Organization and pass a certain registration procedure at a higher school institution, meeting additional criteria. As I said earlier, student representative bodies are student parliaments and student conferences. Students' parliaments act both in higher education institutions' units, such as colleges, and in independent higher education institutions, are universities and academia of vocational studies, while student conferences operate at national level and are a roof upgrade of the student parliament system in Serbia. This law defines clear competences of student conferences, these are two student conferences -- a student conference of the University of Serbia and a student conference of the Academy of Professional Studies and Higher Schools. These are primarily intrinsic to the National Council for Higher Education, which has two members from the ranks of students who choose exactly these student conferences. These are in the process of evaluating academic achievements and student programmes, which is an opportunity to submit initiatives to amend certain general acts that regulate a system of higher education, but also a new option, which is an examination of the performances and remarks that student parliaments of independent higher education institutions and their units refer to SKONUS and SKAS. Student parliaments operate both in higher education institutions and in their units that have legal personality status. So, they work at universities, they work at colleges, and they work at the Academy of Professional Studies. As I said earlier, until now the student parliaments have been regulated only by one single member of the Law on Higher Education, and now the Law on Student Organization is defined in detail, from the authority of student parliaments, to the organisation, how to conduct elections for student parliaments and what is most important to student parliaments, which is funding the work of the student parliament and funding student activities in the higher education institution. As far as the student parliament is concerned, they may be attended by all the registered student organisations in that higher education institution, as well as by informal groups of students whose signatures provide support to at least 10% of the students of the higher education institution and such type of candidateing, which is also a legal obligation, to take into account the equal representation of students and students, as well as the involvement of students with disabilities and students enrolled according to affirmative measures in the work and composition of the student parliament. As for funding and providing material business for the student parliament, it is defined by the obligation of the higher education institution to provide space and necessary technical resources for the student parliament's work, as well as that the student parliament's financial plan adopts exactly the student parliament and becomes an integral part of the financial plan and higher education institution after the adoption of the board of the higher education institution. This financial plan of the student parliament defines not only the costs of the student parliament's work, but also all those costs of carrying out student activities at a higher school institution, which are: publishing student magazines, functioning of sports teams, organising training, seminars, study trips, visits to employers and the like. As for the second part of the student organization, they're student organizations. They operate on three levels -- at the level of a higher school institution unit, which are colleges and sections of the Academy of Professional Studies, act at the level of independent higher education institutions and operate at the level of the higher education system in the Republic of Serbia. The student organisation must be registered under the Association Act, but a student organisation, in order to distinguish it from all other associations, and also those associations intended for students, must already define in its statute the objectives of action towards protecting the rights and interests and health of students, improving teaching, improving student standards and involving students in decision-making and affirming their inclusion in society. In order for students' organisations to gain that status, the law provides for a procedure that includes a commission that will examine both the acts and the work of the student organisation and a solution for enrolment in the student organisation register. The student organisation can only have members from the ranks of students, and the student organisation functions, so the bodies of the student organisation must also be elected from the order of students and the higher education institution. In order to ensure this, the student organisation must keep an active book of its members. Also, a student organisation must not have its activities directed against the equality of all students on a racial, religious, national basis, based on gender, material status or any other origin. So student organisations must promote the idea of tolerance and unity among students. Student organisations, a unit of independent higher education institutions, can join the alliances of student organisations. They will operate at the level of the university and at the level of the Academy of Professional Studies and in order to be representative in their membership, students' organisations acting on at least 50% of the units in the composition of that independent higher school institution must be located. Above the student organisations' alliance comes the National Federation of Student Organizations, and this is a newspaper in our higher education and newspapers in our student organisation, although there were students' organisations in their name who had the word "Serbian" or "Serbian". The National Association of Student Organizations will be one and its membership will include all associations of student organisations registered at independent higher education institutions to ensure the equality of those independent associations of student organisations operating at universities with those operating at the Academy of Professional Studies. Opinion on the establishment and operation of the National Association of Student Organizations will give both student conferences. What makes me particularly happy, and what is in this law are provisions relating to supervision, supervision, of course, the Ministry, and the AP competent authority in the territory, as well as criminal provisions. And so far we have had in the Law on Higher Education a member who referred to the work of the Student Parliament and a member who referred to the participation of students in the work of other bodies of a higher school institution, but we did not have criminal provisions unless the higher school institution fulfilled it. Now both a higher education institution and a responsible person in it will be able to be punished unless they provide adequate material resources for the work of the Student Parliament, as well as provide adequate participation of students in the bodies of a higher education institution. We know that the participation of students in the governing body is 15%, while the participation of students in the professional body of a higher education institution is 20%. This law also extends the powers of student representatives in the professional body, as they will, in addition to their current powers, also have the right to vote and to discuss and to propose the bodies of the business, so in the process of selecting the dean, or rector. He will have the right to vote in the process of amending the statutes of the higher education institution and voting in the process of adopting the financial plan of the higher education institution. As for the second legislative proposal, which is on the agenda today, these are amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, I see that the trend that your ministry started in 2017 has continued. We know that the first Higher Education Act was passed in 2005, which characterized frequent changes. In 2017, a new, complete and comprehensive Law on Higher Education was adopted, which we now adapt to these changes and additions to meet the needs of our academic community. First of all, I would like to welcome the election of members of the Higher Education Council to the National Assembly. We know that in 2017 the selection of members of the National Council was prescribed by the Government. The explanation was that both the selection of missing members and the resolution of individual members was faster and more adequate at the government meetings. However, I personally believe that the procedure carried out by the National Assembly, which includes both the Government's proposal and the debate before the committee responsible and the debate in the tide and the constant presence of citizens who follow this through small screens, is more appropriate to the choice of such an important independent body as the National Council for Higher Education. One important segment of these today's changes concerns the rounding of the accreditation process with the national accreditation body, which requires us to have the European Association for the Security of Quality in Higher Education, whose National Accreditation Body of Serbia wants to become a full member, which is important for our higher school institutions and their study programmes, because they will then be confirmed by a national body which is a full member of the European National Body. We see that within the National Accreditation Body a new body is established, the Board of Appeal, so that complaints in the accreditation process would no longer be dealt with by the National Council for Higher Education. What I can see is that students' representatives have entered into the Board of Directors and the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Security, which has not been the case so far. Since the establishment of the National Council for Higher Education there have been representatives of students, but never before in the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Security and the Management Board of the National Accreditation Body there have been no students, so I, as regards the discussion of the previous law, would welcome this amendment. Of course it's important for students to be in that segment of higher education. Another amendment amending the Law on Higher Education foresees, and as far as students are concerned, is the extension of the deadline for so-called. Old students. We call them old students because they're enrolled in old study programs, student programs adopted before 5 September 2005. We know that the last who could have been enrolled under these programmes were students who were enrolled on October 1st 2008, so they don't have to be age by age. In short, they are being extended the opportunity to complete studies both basic, both master and doctoral for another year, and what I would welcome is the fact that we are adopting these changes now in June of the month, and not as often as it was, in September, which will further relax the situation and allow them to learn and complete what was started. I, as well as my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, in the day of voting I will support these two legislative proposals in an all-out way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7758	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. First is MP Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7759	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, we are facing today's very important laws and the Justice and Reconciliation Party as the strongest Bosniak party will support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. I especially want to highlight the importance of the Law on Student Organization. Why? Because because of students who are the future of every country, every nation, and our country, and there is a university and there is a Ministry of Education and there are all other institutions. I think very often in practice it loses its sense of reality and loses who it is and why it exists, and then very often we have a situation where individual employees of certain universities, bearers of certain cathedrals, who have been there for decades, think they're really the essence of all of it, not students. It is very important that we adopt this law today, because it is our future elite, future leaders, people who will lead this country in the coming period. As we sow, so shall we reap. It is very important that not only through their organization they participate and manage processes when it comes to education and the plan and the work programme and primarily the university, but that they influence the legal solutions that we are going to adopt here. It is very important, among other things, that they prepare through this work for responsible positions in society that must follow them after the study is completed and that it is very important that this law is on the agenda today and that this is framed in our country's legal system. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education, several times today has been mentioned by the Accreditation Commission and I want to point out that it is really unacceptable for me that members of the Accreditation Commission were ever people who were active officials, officials, regular teachers, deans of some other colleges. And now in public life politics, in discourse, we have something called conflict of interest, and now as a university worker, I have to participate in deciding whether another university, in this case, my direct competition, meets certain conditions, some conditions or not. It is absolutely something that is unacceptable and I am glad that slowly but surely we are putting an end to this nepotism and these abuses. As far as relations with theology colleges are concerned, the leader of our party Academyman Muamer Zukorlic spoke about it in detail, and I want to point out, it is important that the Faculty of Education is part of Belgrade University, and I want to highlight the Faculty of Islamic Sciences in Novi Pazar. It is a truly renowned college with which we all Muslims in the Republic of Serbia are proud, where not only citizens and citizens from the Republic of Serbia are studying, but from 45 countries and it is a real team of both our country and our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7760	Thank you, Mr. Tandir. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7761	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Ruzic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the law on student organisation and the law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, means, on a completely new law and on amendments to an important system law that treats an important part of Serbia's education system. Right at the beginning, I would like to say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support both of these legislative proposals in the voting day. When we talk about the law on student organisation, we can say that the history of student organisation has as much a tradition as the oldest universities and universities in the world, such as Bolognaski, which was founded in 1088 or Sorbonne, which was founded in 1150, but somewhere the most serious origins of the student organization are related, of course, to those universities, but somewhere in the XIII century. As for Serbia, the start of the institutional organisation of students is linked to 1852 and the establishment of a Fund to help poor students. However, all these forms of student organisation were not institutionally and legally arranged until 2005, when the Higher Education Act was adopted, which recognised forms of student organisation such as student parliament and student conferences. In time, however, it has proved that there is a lot of uncertainty left and simply, there is a need to make a whole new law that we now have as a legal proposal here in the National Assembly and which we support. I said, it was necessary to regulate the form of the organization of people, or the organization of students. The history of the student organisation is somewhere parallel to historical and student activity, which is very often related to the political activation of these student organisations, such as, say, the revolutionary student movement that was founded at the University of Belgrade in the 20th century, which was particularly active in the 1930s and which was under the influence of the then Communist Party of Yugoslavia or, say, like the student protests in 1968, which were part of a wider mass, civilizational, world movement, but there were also student movements of the 1990s, "Resist", up until the last "One of five million". A common majority of the aforementioned student political activities were that they were very abused by political parties and groups, and they are free to say, abused by individuals as well. A little while, Dragan Markovic Palma mentioned one such case, which is the case of Dragan Gilas, who, as head of the 1992 student movement, abused the student movement for his personal interests. Since I was a fourth-year college student back then, I was, let me put it this way, familiar with these events, a witness of that time, and I can say responsibly that Dragan Gilas abused that political protest for his personal gain. In 1992, he and his best man, Mladjan Djordjevic, who lived in the home of "Mika Mitrović" on Vozdovec, and I ask where he lives now, who were both in worn-out jeans, and where they are now, they used the protest and students for personal gain and perhaps this is the most brutal example of economic and political rise. Namely, right after the end of those protests, which, to remind you, have ended to begin so-called The opposition psychic assembly in front of the National Assembly has been called for the president, which also included candidate Milan Panic, who Dragan Djilas supported and urged student activists from the then protest to support his campaign by campaigning in his local environments. Now, these student activists broke news at the end of 1992 that Dragan Gilas is throwing a party for the first made million. So I'm talking about a man who cashed in a student protest and earned the first million marks in less than a year, and let me remind you, I'm talking about a time when inflation was 19,855% at the end of 1992, and Gilas' profit was more than that 20,000 percent. What's important is that we talk about a time when there was no bread in the student menus and the students who were seduced by Dragan Gilas were able to live in various ways. The majority of these students at the time are people who are responsible and hard to work and earn for their lives, unlike Dragan Gilas, who goes from exotic to exotic destination, checking the state of his bank accounts and enjoying his wealth. The basic question is, why does someone bring money out of their country if they're honest with the money they've earned and if they've paid taxes? Gilas, cashing in a student protest, found that trade in influence could make huge money, so he quickly built his political career through DS, which he led exclusively as an opportunity for personal wealth. Dragan Gilas, a man without scruples, who is ready for anything in defending his personal business interest, may be the best example of the fact that he bought out the same DS debt, thanks to which he acquired everything in life and today keeps it in economic and political slavery. Gilas' battle for power is actually a battle for a privileged position. As he treats the DS today, as the biggest trustee, he treated it as he was in power and Serbian citizens and his only political goal and desire is to come to power to continue what he did once and for what Serbian citizens rejected him as a politician. I don't want to talk about the law on student organisation anymore. I'd like to talk about amendments to the Higher Education Act. You, Mr. Ruzic, have just said that I have spent my entire life in education, that for 17 years I am someone who has been conducting the education policy of the Ministry of Education in the Pomorava County and that I am certainly a witness to all the reforms of the educational system in all their parts, both in the basic, middle and high. Unlike primary and secondary education, where reforms went somewhat in continuity and where the quality of these parts of the education system increased, so the growth of quality in primary and secondary education has been continued somewhere and followed these educational reforms, I can't say that the same case was with higher education. Since 2005 when the Law on Higher Education was passed, we have simply been forced to constantly change that law because of a series of indetermination that led to the situation that in our higher education institutions, not all of them, but in the work of higher education institutions, the growth of quality, in these institutions, did not go parallel to business growth. Somewhere in many of our higher education institutions, business grew more and faster than education and teaching in those higher education institutions, which is not good and is not socially desirable and which, of course, we all want to change. I think these amendments and the additions to the law, and I'm going to make two changes that, in my opinion, are crucial and essential. The first is to remove the possibility of the National Council for Higher Education acting in the second degree of appeal for accreditation procedure and to transfer it to the National Accreditation Council. I think it's a good solution, because in this way a complete accreditation process, i.e. meeting minimum conditions, quality and quality standards of individual higher education institutions, is transferred to the Accreditation Commission. I think it's a good thing, because it's been divorced before, and it's caused a lot of problems. The second thing is that the National Council for Higher Education is elected in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that is a good solution and the proposal is given by the government. All of this would end with one quote that Lao Ce said, which is that education, like rowing, upstream, if you stop moving backwards. That's why the whole society, Mr. Minister, our entire state, our ministry, educational institutions, must not stop rowing at this time of the crown and the education system must be constantly developing and working to create good conditions for the future of some future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7762	Thank you, Mr. Starčević. The word is Dunja Simonović Bratić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7763	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, today's session topics are two laws that are very important to our country and society. Namely, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education and the Draft Law on Student Organization. Before discussing these topics, I would like to congratulate all the educators on the successfully completed school 2020/2021. The year, which they performed under extremely difficult circumstances, and in the course of the Covid-19 pandemic. The introduction of online teaching, the extraordinary efforts of all teachers and teachers, professors and professors, as well as the entire school and university administrations and the Ministry itself, who coordinated and followed all, really deserve a lot of thanks, both to parents and all members of society. In addition to health workers who have suffered the greatest burden and sacrifice in the fight against the virus, which continues to last, educational workers have also been on the front line of the fight, guarding and educating our children, our future. As for today's subject, I will first look back at the proposed draft law on student organisation. We who studied under that old program, I mean the educational era before the Bologna system, and we who ran student organisations during basic studies can be modestly noticed, remembering all the problems we faced, that this draft law on student organisation is a really nice news for our youth. The 2005 and 2017 law on student organisation, the birth of a student parliament and other activities led to the application in practice which showed certain shortcomings and thus successfully implemented this draft through joint work and resave school. When I say Resavia School, I mean the law that exists in most neighbouring countries, which is in a symbiotic relationship with harmonising our legislation with European legislation. Svfe together, largely students can count on student representative bodies, which are student conferences and student parliaments. The jurisdiction of student conferences is high. There are five points that are closer to determining the competence of student conferences, as well as 14 points that determine the rights and responsibilities of the student parliament. I will purposely not explain every point, since my colleagues will answer this in more detail, but I would like to point out that as the crown of overall work and the organisation of students will be the possibility of organising a national association of student organisations. What I could recommend is that law school students make a manual, because indeed all of these newspapers require thorough knowledge, both with rights and obligations, especially when all this work involves the possibility of using significant financial resources to be available. Of course, that includes a great responsibility for the students themselves. Since the world indeed remains for young people, as I belong to those who do not quote the great Herodotus in the work of generational weakness of offspring, I believe that students will also learn from all these possibilities to choose the best options for intellectual growth and development. By understanding the university so far, as an institution that raises and educates, we can add that it, not only appeals to freedom of opinion and academic action, but essentially commits, which will mean that there is no more justification for intellectual and other sloth. The famous German philosopher Fichte wrote in his deductive plan, the fact-finding act of Berlin University, that the university of an institution whose purpose is the education of human reason, as the power of freedom, and the only one that fills the human race with its provisions. In accordance with the new powers it gets, the university becomes a living organism, and the students now have the power to turn it into as complex as possible. As for the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, it produced much more public comments, partly professional, but more political. In particular, with the establishment of an appropriate legal framework for the national accreditation body to fully meet European standards and guidelines for quality assurance in higher education and to regain full membership status within the European High Education Quality Security Association, substantial supplements have been proposed for the National High Education Council. I'd like to focus my attention now on the intended article 21. This article is complemented by an existing member of 97th new position, by a higher education institution, which implements academic study programmes in the field of theology, one of the traditional churches and religious communities, authorized to prescribe a general act, in addition to the general conditions for enrolment of candidates in primary, master and doctoral studies, the consent of the competent authority, church or religious community, having regard to the personality for the purpose and nature of the theological education. Here he refers to the Institute of Blessings, which is a property of SPC, which refers to the Orthodox Faculty of God, i.e. to the blessing of the Holy Archaeological Synod in the election for new members of the field of faith and to learn a unique confession of Orthodox faith. I don't want to bring down a story on individual examples of teaching staff in theology, which has been followed in public lately, because bringing down one or two examples and interpreting by laymen what's going on there leads to another question -- how have these teachers been chosen so far for these titles and places? Of course they were chosen with a blessing, and then they didn't object after they got it. Wasn't it, too, and then what is now just formally introduced, that there is no confusion, that the church itself here decides on its own thing, which is that it chooses who will teach new scholars, theology and other beliefs about Orthodox religion? Being a skeptic in the sphere of Christian dogma products for the consequence of enrolling, say, the Faculty of Philosophy, especially the direction of philosophy, like I did. Since, as I said earlier, I'm from the education era before Bologna, I want to share my experience with you. In 2001 to 2003, a famous professor from the Bible came to philosophy and lectured on medieval philosophy of the New Age. It was really surreal to listen to a professor who was in a complete priestly uniform at the lectures on Dekart's chalk "dumb ergo chitito, kiito ergo sum". I doubt it, so I think I exist. If it weren't for real, it'd sound like a good joke in a millennium of theologians and philosophers having possession of human souls. I don't remember when my professors, both philosophy and sociology, heard today, protested this strangeness. To conclude, our Orthodoxy is deeply rooted in our statehood. As we know, we are a world state, but we must also be aware that our church in the time of our people's slavery, under various aliens, has kept a memory of who we are and where we are from and more importantly where we are going to go. Although the fortress with complicated rules was closed at first sight, it sought its wisdom with new ways of conquering freedom. When he thinks he's denying it, he's a complete idiot, in the Greek sense of that word. Time counts differently in Orthodoxy, and I don't just mean calendars. Each event is observed from the point of view of eternity and one century can be a moment in sincere prayer or repentance. The most called protector of the Kosovo Testament is the Orthodox Church, and, behold, miracles on the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, we never needed a more important assembly. That is why these cry for a blessing is pointless, for if we are to be honest, who can truly deal with faith, that he may live with it and live therein, that He may teach it and spread it, if not one of those who is one of the first among the equals and receive a blessing. We MPs cannot give a blessing, but that is why we can vote for this law, which we will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7764	Thank you. The word is Anna Belloica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7765	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, the policy of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is aimed at improving the position of young people and that is the task of all of us. So it's not a task for only one man, for only one ministry, it's a task that we all have to work together as a modern and civilized society. Young people don't just represent our future. They are young and our present, and therefore we need to provide them with access to an adequate and modern system of education, a modern labour market where they can find their jobs and, of course, provide basic conditions for life for themselves, both for themselves and for their family. Youth is happy because there is a future for it, a Russian writer said, and that is why we, led by this exchange day and day, are trying to provide for our citizens, for our children, for our young people a better, better, safer and safer future. The laws that are still on the agenda, of course, speak for themselves. These are certainly the draft laws on amendments to the Law on Higher Education, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Student Organization. When we talk about the Law on Student Organization, it primarily refers to the way it functions, functions, organisation, funding of different student organisations, different representative bodies, and all in order to achieve common interests for all students at national level, so on the level of our entire Republic of Serbia. It is very important to note that this type of organization did not exist from 2005 to the introduction of the Bologna system in education and that this generally led to aging a number of problems, when we talk about a higher education system. That is why today as a modern society, we can talk about a special law dealing with this topic, a law adopted by many countries in the region, and therefore it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to adopt such a law in order, of course, to bring our legislation in line with the legal assets of the European Union, of course, throughout Europe. When we talk about the Law on Higher Education, the main changes relate first and foremost to the prescribed system of quality assurance in higher education in order to establish an adequate legal framework for the national accreditation body to meet European standards and guidelines for ensuring quality in higher education, in order, of course, to make our country a better position in this international area of higher education. That's why it's important for us to adopt laws like this in the voting day. I will certainly do so along with my MP group and, of course, I appeal to all my esteemed colleagues to do the same. What I mentioned at the outset, SNS policy is aimed at creating a better, better and safer future for all young people and for our children and of course at creating conditions for young people to return to the Republic of Serbia to their centuries-old hearths and to base their families there. The problem of leaving young people from the Republic of Serbia is not new. It's a problem that lasts a few decades back. Young people, due to numerous wars, due to crises, because of sanctions, misery, poverty, robbery of the state and suspicious privatisations that were conducted not so long ago, just a few years ago during the former regime, decided to leave our beautiful country, to leave the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that during the former regime, suspected privatisations have closed hundreds and hundreds of factories, that half a million people remain on the street, young, honest, educated people who have decided to leave our country without hope, any hope, that tomorrow will be better. It was these young people who sought out some less corrupt system, a system that did not restrict corruption, crime, a system that would take a little more care of their own interests, and not just their own interests, where there would not be those ossions of politicians who only cared about how to deploy their property around the world and where they would be able to earn their bread bread fairly. It is you today, the esteemed citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who honor us that young people, because of the SNS regime, because of Alexander Vukic or any of us here, are leaving the Republic of Serbia, which is, of course, an absolute lie. Dear gentlemen, if you had taken a little more care of these young people's interests, if you hadn't left their parents out on the streets without being able to feed their children, to feed their family, to pay a little less attention to them, and a little more attention to the integrity of Serbian territory, to those territories that their fathers died for, for which their brothers died and shed blood, today these young people would have hope, the hope we keep trying to bring back, hope for a better future, in a better tomorrow, hope for a new beginning. That is why we are investing as much as 700m euros today in the construction of apartments for young couples, so we have opened up a new factory all over Serbia in every city, opened jobs for these young people, so today we are investing in highways for the reputation of the most modern European countries, with the reputation of the world's most modern economies, so we are fighting corruption, crime and even in our ranks, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we are all witnessing that this is the case today. I'm going to remind all of you, respected citizens, that just a few months ago in Novi Sad, the Continental factory is open and I've talked a few times about it in this high house, but it seems to me to be such a rapper showing what the policy of the SNS is. So thanks to only one factory of 20 young people, young highly educated people, young electric engineers made a decision to return to the Republic of Serbia with their families. So, 20 people thanks to only one factory, and we've opened hundreds of them all over the Republic of Serbia. It would be illusory to say now that in a year, two or five, we will have the average salary that exists in one Germany, in one Switzerland, but it is very important to leave our children one healthy Serbia, Serbia that is placed on a healthy basis, to leave it with a system in which we will all be able to fight together for what we promised our citizens, which is that the average salary will be 900 euros and the average pension of 440 euros. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, recently, the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies has conducted a study that says that in the last five years Serbia has recorded the inflow of highly educated people and this is a motive that makes us move on, to fight for leaving to our children, future generations, a more beautiful, more modern and modern Serbia because Serbia is not there for us. We are here because of Serbia, our country, the country that has brought forth many greats, the country for which our fathers, our grandfathers have died and shed blood and as such deserves to be better, better and more modern for new generations to come. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7766	Thank you, Mrs. Belloica. The word has Milija Miletic, the remaining time is 2 minutes and 17 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7767	I thank you, Doctor Orlic. Dear Ministers Mr. Ruzic, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrljig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party. I was selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, where today, as before, I will support the proposals of these laws, because by investing in education, investment in young people is an investment in the future. Otherwise, I would like to join the congratulations, as my colleague said before, we congratulate the end of this school year, because our teachers, teachers, teachers, were really heroes together with our healthcare workers, because what was needed most to help our children, students to gain knowledge, to apply their knowledge in the coming period tomorrow. Otherwise, I'd like to congratulate all the students from this place, the best students who signed Dossy's scholarship contracts today. It was done in Nis, congratulations. It's the right thing to do, because the scholarship they signed today is for the best. I expect that these students who have a final year of studies or master studies, that through help and investment in youth, we will provide jobs, because it is our mission here and all of us and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and expects it to be done in the next period. I congratulate these students, and I expect them to do what is right and stay here in our country of Serbia, invest in their knowledge, and it will be for all of us plus and better. Otherwise, I will support the proposals of these laws, because these laws are now specifically through the Law on Student Organization, which is first adopted and which has solved some things that have not been done so far. It's a positive thing and once again support all that. That's what a colleague of Vladica Maricic, who is from Nis, spoke of. Otherwise, Nis University is something of a quality. The bottom line is that investment in southeastern Serbia, in what it's worth, are young. Once again, as an MP and representative of the USS, support all the bill proposals, with the desire to give the results, to those people to whom we give certain opportunities, to provide them with a job tomorrow, and the state of Serbia and our president and all of us work together. Dear Ministers, Mr. Ruzic, you have the support as minister that we all end this together and that our children have a safe future, and that was politics in these previous elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7768	Thank you. The word is Ljubinko Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7769	Thank you, Vice President of the Assembly, Mr. Orlic. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, Mr. Ruzic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like first to make an impression on the work of the National Assembly, I don't think anyone will mind. Thankfully, the president of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic, the vice presidents, the heads of the parliamentary groups, and our MPs have helped the Assembly to work effectively and nurture the debate at a high democratic level in the past. A large number of laws and other acts have been passed without a problem, and the Assembly has been working as an example of how this should be done. Dear Minister, Mr. Ruzic, I would like to commend both your work and your results so far, because the Ministry of Justice, whose head you've led in the past and this year's crown, along with the educators and students, has carried a great burden and have managed to cope with all this. You have started your ministerial work effectively, and as proof of that, there has been a lot of legislative activity in the National Assembly in the work of your ministry, which should all be improved by this important sector. You spoke in detail and clearly of these bill proposals today. You were talking about all aspects of these laws, so it's almost impossible to say something new. Also president of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Milicevic spoke in detail about these laws, but I will look back on some amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, which the SPS parliamentary group will support. I'm going to refer to several very significant amendments to the law. First of all, the amendments to the provisions of Article 148. The Law on Higher Education, on the transitional deadlines for the completion of studies under the started curricula and programme, on the conditions and rules of study for students who enrolled under the regulations applicable until 10 September 2005. New deadlines are now being set for the completion of these studies under the start of the curricula and programme, according to the conditions and rules of study and until the end of the school 2021/22. A year. For students enrolled in integrated studies from the field of medical science, the deadline for completion shall be extended until the end of 2022/23. A year. This is the question most interested in generations of students who started studies on old programs. This gives these young people a chance to start their studies without any further problems and without major financial problems. It's good that the Ministry understands this time that these students have made great efforts, passed a large number of exams and should be allowed to complete their studies, to graduate, to give them extra time. If we hadn't passed this law, a lot of negative things would have happened. Indeed, this would demote all of them, and not only in terms of studies, but in terms of life issues, their lives would likely go on for some other time. Many would not have the material opportunity to complete the remaining obligations until graduation. We agree that this change in terms of deadlines applies to magistrates and PhDs who are in the final phase of making master's and doctoral dissertations. And also, I appreciate the dilemma that came up today, whether it should be a permanent solution, because there are a number of legitimate reasons, but there are some unjustified reasons that are due to unhappiness and I think there should be a transitional solution in the future. But this view of the Assembly and the Government's proposal is very positive for example. 50% of the justified reasons should not be punished for those 50% or less, which are unwarranted. Namely, there is a number of magistrates who have never been able to defend their doctoral dissertation, and they need a little extra time. It would be very good to allow them to finish their doctorate. It wouldn't be good to ask them to re-enter doctoral studies, because they've already passed the exams. It is particularly important, because it is a small number of these cases and it is not a major problem for the finance ministry, for the state of Serbia, because mainly the institutions in which they work finance the costs of their improvement. In addition to this, Your Honor, I would like to add a new topic to be considered in the next period, and we propose that, in future amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act and the Law on Scientific Research, we solve the problems of a group permanently. It is a rough word – one group, but I had no other group, which is that students and scientific workers who are suffering from severe illness and who, due to health and physical obstacles, are unable to meet all the requirements in preparation of exams, exams and necessary research in order to defend master's thesis and doctoral dissertations. We have given these laws to them and extended it for a year, but it is not a lasting solution. Often these people are not in our sights, we forget, and we don't think about their difficult conditions and the problems they face in the process of education. Our proposal is to allow them to study and scientific training without limited time limits until the study is completed, i.e. until the treatment is completed where possible. Unfortunately, there are often systemic diseases that cannot be permanently cured. This has long been in my mind given some colleagues I know who suffer from severe diseases of multiple sclerosis, for example, how do they expect them to do research on the ground or to collect data when, due to the physical obstacles imposed on them by the nature of the disease cannot get to the ground themselves, and this group is needed through and without the help of other researchers, it is not possible for their master's work and doctoral dissertation to end, to process the data and to get out in time to pass. The state should not forget the human attitude towards this group of highly educated, creative and our sciences of the necessary people, so it is also necessary to think about the types of institutional assistance the state needs to enable them to take advantage of their scientific potential and complete studies and scientific training. I'd take the opportunity to look back at scientific institutes even though they're not the subject of these changes, because I come from this activity and I know their position. According to the Law on Science and Research, the status of staffed scientific workers of the Institute has been somewhat improved by this last law, but is not permanently resolved. Namely, although the founder of the institute in most cases, in 90 or more cases, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is so in the last 70 years, has not been financed institutionally, or budgetally. That's not the case right now, but the situation is much better now, because they're funded on the basis of annual research programmes. However, this makes only 50% of the Institute's income so that the rest of the funds are made in the classical market, and they are the only ones in all public services that do not have guaranteed funding from the state, while for example the institutions have the financing of a state of 100%. The next thing I want to say to you, but don't take it personally, because I said this to the previous minister, it was my first address, the Scientific Community of Serbia, the respected ministers expect that in the future, the separation for science to be 1% for the start, which is also less than in the EU countries we seek. All countries of the world that had successful economic and general social development such as Germany, Japan, Scandinavian countries and many others, accounted for more than 1% of GDP. Also, respected ministers, we expect you to institutionally resolve infrastructure investments in higher education institutions and institutes. In fact, significant investments are needed in the equipment of buildings, institutes, because they are mostly worn out, they are hundreds of years old, some leak, windows haven't changed since the buildings were built, the conditions for equipment are inadequate. However, we must be honest that many good things have been initiated and done during the previous government as seen in the adoption of the new Law on Science and Research, the Law on the Fund for Science and some other things the Government had a vision for. Dear Ministers, in addition to many of the things done by previous ministers in the higher education education sector and in the science and research sector, let us remember Professor Unkovic, who provided 1% of the science budget, then Professor Zarko Obradovic, who started a project of free textbooks, but also the first to ensure that master and doctoral studies can be financed from the budget, Minister Sarcevic proposed and we adopted several reform laws, but because of the importance of education for the progress of society, it is necessary for our country to continue working on reforms of higher education and scientific work. That's why one ministerial term is not enough. It is a long-term and constant process, but it is important that each of the ministers have a team and do everything possible to ensure the continuity of development. Unfortunately, in some areas we are late for the world safely and objectively, but we have young talents in almost all areas, and you have this difficult task of improving the system, to contribute to the integration of scientific knowledge into development. Your mandate is in a very difficult time, the crown was unfortunately not without consequences, but you've managed to ensure in this school year that the entire education system works so that there is no stalemate. We are grateful to you and your team, and especially to the educators at all levels of education that carried out the greatest burden on the crown. Of course, it was not easy for students, nor for students, nor for their families. There's something else important I want to say. Today science is a condition of progress, it changes civilization, technological development progresses at astronomical speed, and we have to compete with high education and education and science with the highly developed West or at least use their knowledge and achievements. That is why, dear Minister, he would propose that as many of our graduates as possible be perfected in highly developed countries. It's not always about the cost of the state and it wouldn't be a great burden for the state. There are numerous grants from foreign governments, foreign institutions where our graduates would participate in projects where modern knowledge is acquired and modern technology. But to enable them when they return to be the bearers of our scientific and technological development. Another amendment to the Law on Higher Education, which you are proposing now, would I point out, because it refers to the prescribed system of improving the quality of higher education, which is our strategic goal. This is a practical establishment of an appropriate legal framework for the National Accreditation Body. I don't want to talk anymore, that's what my predecessors were talking about, so I thank you and hope that I have contributed to the adoption of this law with my own exposure. The SPS parliamentary group will vote for both of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7770	Thank you, Professor. Raconian. I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue at 15 hours and five minutes. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7772	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr Orlic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, today there are two laws, which are very important for education and education, in higher education education – the Law on November organization and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. I have no intention of explaining it beyond that, because it was a representative of the parliamentary group who was extremely well-designed. Let me just mention a few sentences when they are amended and complemented by the Higher Education Act on the agenda. This is very important that both colleagues and colleagues have drawn attention to the election of members of the Vishski Council for National Education and the High Accreditation Body from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this way we contribute to the process of democratisation, not only of education and education, but of our country's overall system. While we're already in higher education, it's not too bad to mention that we're even talking about higher education, because very rarely we're talking about this high school home, let me say that it's a pleasure to say that we're so-called old students, i.e. students who have enrolled in the 2005 program, have extended another school year. My smallness since 2012 has been struggling to keep this extension from being one year old, we're always in a year and two, but lasting. It's every student's right to a permanent education. But this "but" is very important, we, under that first Law on Higher Education, said that a student who enters a programme has the right to complete studies, as long as he studies, according to that programme. I think we really need to think about it in the future, or on the Committee, we are thinking about organising one hearing in this sense, because we have cases, for example, that a student who studied for 28 years, in those 28 years did not graduate from college, but he received a Lifetime Work Award from the fields he studied. What's the problem? Well, there are more of them. One of them is the teaching chamber, professors, "buuk professors", because in colleges, apart from wonderful lecturers, educators, scientists, there is one part of the professors we often call "buuk professors", where no one can pass a certain exam. That's why it's very important who works at higher education institutions. There's really everything there. We have people who don't hold on to patriotic education and education, which is one of the conditions in each country, one of the conditions that a teacher can be a teacher, not in terms of legal, but in terms of education. Patriotism is one of the main tasks of moral education that students of pedagogy learn about at the university, not only in pedagoggy, but also in other teaching classes. We also have PhDs who have completed and given all the exams in the time when the legislator said: “three plus three years”, but please, they are losing their working relationship because they did not accept them, did not accept them, actually answered teachers or often held colleges in drawers for two years. Now, we have to put that on the agenda. Further, doctorate from Latin and classical languages, do a doctoral dissertation five years ago, so I'd like to see him, who can do it. So, they don't need to be cut off from their jobs, they need Deans along with the Ministry to find opportunities not to lose their jobs. Speaking of doctors, there are really problems at all universities, as far as I'm concerned, we have a lot of blame for the administration of the university, or university. They don't stick to deadlines, they don't respond to students applying doctoral dissertation for a year and two. We have a case, a doctoral dissertation done here in Belgrade, two years waiting because there's a professor on the committee who doesn't talk to another professor. So there's a mass of these reasons that I'm not going wide. Now, speaking of which, what's very important, Mr. Minister with associates, is that we destroyed education in 2000. It is a law that the late Gaso Knezevic was the initiator and served as minister during the former government he was passed. He's ruined our education and education, whose consequences we'll still feel, by my judgment, at least another ten, fifteen years. We can't go back to the level we've been to. What's this all about? Let me explain here. We then, under the pressure of the West and Soros, expelled education and education from educational institutions, and not only from them, but from society, from the family, from the means of mass communication. So look at what television looks like to you, not counting RTS, for them it's a great honor. But these others, and with a national frequency, they're not as educational factor as they used to be, and they should be, and that's what they are in the West, but that's why they're not with us. Teachers in primary and secondary schools were banned from mentioning the word "request". Teachers in primary and secondary schools were banned from mentioning the word "request". We have been fighting the battle since 2012 to call the law what they call the entire teaching world, as they call it, it should bear the name of the Law on Higher Education and Education, not the Law on Higher Education. Well, the law on elementary school, we talked, the law on elementary school, not the Law on education and basic education, the Law on education and secondary education, and we turned everything around. Because of the disquietings that we've driven out of society, we've got murders every day, murders in the family, street murders, family disquietings, disquietings in the congregation, in the government, and in society as a whole. Let's get our education back together. They're huge economic losses. My smallness only calculated to remove one rude measure, which is graphite by building in Belgrade, we need a billion euros. Is it small? You know what we can do with a billion euros? I don't want to talk about other measures. So we return education from preschool institutions to higher education institutions and society in general. In order to get that back, we must also have teachers who love their jobs, who are teachers, and not teachers, then don't tear down students. A student and a student, gentlemen professors, has the right to not know, but my right as a teacher and a pedagogist is not to let him not know, to lead him through a teaching skill, which is the essence, and to bring down a student and a student can anyone. That pedagogy knows very well. When it comes to moral tasks of a person, let me say that first we must love our jobs, professors. Another great Plato in his country said: “The state will not be harmed if the shoemaker has no idea about his trade, only the Athenians will be badly shoeed, but if the teacher has a bad education for the children of the future generation he will be ignorant. ” You see the importance of education and education. Not to mention the Great Pestalos, who said: “The enthusiasm that I will be able to move my hands has given me so much strength that I can climb to the highest Alps just to begin, ” thinks raising children and youth. Now, that's the point in that part. Allow another quote from Kasiodor, the great Roman historian, writer and statesman, which means raising in the spirit of patriotism. So the great Cassiodor said: “Special the history of your people, that they may not be strangers in your own country. ” But that we're strangers in our own country proves one part of the high school professors that I, Mr. Minister, will talk about today by name, by name, without delay. Among the teams of which I will say that there is no patriotic not only education, but that the culprit for this situation in society is Prof. Dr. Slobodanka Turajlic, who was the assistant minister, seems to me during the late Gaša Knezevic, whose consequences we feel at every turn today. Because I'm talking about her, I'm going to tell you now. She is a respected member of the Free Citizens Movement today. You know what she asked for, believe it or not, but she asked for the destruction of Stefan Nemanja's monument. Stefan Nemanja, the creator of the medieval Serbian state. Do you know what she said, and Professor of the University for years, I quote: “The monumental monument to Stefan Nemanja should be torn down and removed from the Sava Venec as soon as possible. ” What he is saying now, Mrs. Turajlic, about Kasiodor, who said: "Let us leave the history of our people, lest we be strangers in our own country," and she is a stranger in her own country and not only she, we will hear, there are more of them. She's visiting on TV, I'm openly saying N1, infamous, really infamous, because that N1 TV is worse than Goebbels. You've seen what they do these days. That's amazing. She said, quote: “This monument is something that everyone normal should be ashamed of, ” and she added, quoting: “It is such a disgrace for this city, such a shame that generations will wear if the monument is not removed. ” It's a finished quote. Can you, honourable citizens and you, Mr. Minister, believe that this lady was a professor of the university for forty and a few years. That she was an assistant minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm asking her, and she's not the only one, and we're gonna talk about the others a little bit more, so why are you Mrs. Professor against building a monument to Stefan Nemanja? Is it because the monument was erected by a Serb saint? Or was it because Stefan Nemanja was the founder of the Serbian medieval state? Are you perhaps because the monument is the work of a great Russian artist, a knight? Is that why you may have been or may be because of the rise, because the initiator of the monument was the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic? You seem to be in the most pain. You're very nervous when you say that on this TV. Are you perhaps against raising a monument to Stefan Nemanja because this monument is good for Serbian national identity? Maybe that's why. Remember well, ma'am, sometimes it will write, I'm sure, the monument to Stefan Nemanja is the most beautiful gift of the Serbian people and the state, in the year 2020, I burn to all victims through 820 years for my Serbian faith, Orthodox faith, the Serbian nation and the Serbian homeland. The monument was set during the Serbian ruler Aleksandr Vukic, a reformer and modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. I'm sure it will study future generations. Don't be respected MPs, don't be surprised that Mrs Turajlic does not support Serbian culture, and believe it or not, she said, quote: "Kosovo is a lost territory for Serbia, the fight for Kosovo's resolution and Metohija is a game." It's a finished quote. Whether respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia can believe that's what a respected teacher is saying. Not to add any further importance to it, but joined it, believe it or not, Prof. Dr. Dusan Teodorovic, an academic member of a free Serbian assembly. He spits daily in this National Assembly. He says we are a barn, we are MPs, and there is no abusive word he has not said about President Vukic, MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Just a few sentences. He told the People's MPs in 18.7. 2019 that they were primitives. Yes, Mr. Academy, we may be primitives, but we're not like you, Mr. Academyman, who escaped from the country just when our country was bombed. You've spent quiet days, unlike us. In the land of the aggressor you spent. What were you doing in that country, Mr. Academyman? Every day you attack both MPs and this country. You, Mr. Academyman, in 18.3.2020 as a moral gromad of academics, said that the president of the state was Alexander Vukic. Stalin, that Hitler, Mussolini, Franco or Kim Dynasty. Mr. Academia, unlike you, Alexander Vukic is building a cult of work in this country, a cult of self-indulgence, a cult of combat for his country, a cult of positive energy, a cult of ideas for the good of all citizens, and also your Mr. Academyman, Mr. Theodoreović. You, Mr. Academic, have been growing a cult of nerado, a cult of negativity for your country, because you, Mr. Academyman, have been driven out of traffic school as a drone and have found refuge in the United States. While I have been spittin' on us all the time, Mr. Vice President Orlic, let me say that in 13.10.2009, he showed an unprecedented hatred for great actor Nenad Jedic just because he played a role in opening the highway "Milos Great" and that he was looking forward to it as the millions of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because of Jezdić's love for his country's success in infrastructure, Teodorovic radiated his hatred for the state and for Mr Jezdić and Mr Aleksandr Vukic. He said he would no longer buy Mr. Jezdić's brandy which is otherwise excellent. Can you believe that's what a professor who works in higher education does, and even an academic says these words. And not only that, that he doesn't have a shred of patriotic feelings, he says this quote when he says it. I quote, "Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia". That's what the respected academic said and added, quote: "Let Kosovo not sacrifice Serbia" completed a quote. That's what he said in a list in the year 22.7.2020. And it's not just him. If I didn't deal with him too much, let him deal with us further. Mr. Vice President, I must say to Dr. Orlic that Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic from day to day are constantly cursing, insulting, Satanising not only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also President Vukic and the state of Serbia. Do you know who they're working with? With Croats, with sharps and former Montenegrin Serbs. They accuse the Serbian people and Alexander Vukic of waging a war in the '90s, of robbing, burning and killing in mass graves, you've seen these days. So the other day on Gilas's News Max Adria, television, the news teller addressed the citizens with these words and shocked all the viewers around the world, as far as ratings are concerned. That's what he said. I quote: “Good evening, where were you in the 1990s? How many bodies have you burned? Did you bring home at least one fridge, ring or gold tooth? Did you kill at least one man in mass graves? Did you kill at least one Albanian? “ A quote has been completed. Mr. Vice President, Dr. Orlic, I will respond today, I hope for the last time, both Gilas and Jeremic and Tadic, to these insults by the Serbian people and the state. To you who's bored you can leave. Mr. Gilasu, Mr. Tadic and Wolfe Jeremic, I will answer you directly, and after my discussion, stay in a mouse hole and never again report to the Serbs on these issues, but to those whose interests you represent, which are Croats, sharps and Bosniaks, for cheap political points. Now I'm going to quote you who made the war. Dear citizens because of you, Josip Boljkovac, former Croatian Minister of State in 1990 to 1992, says this, quote: "Tudjman wanted war at all costs. The war wasn't necessary, it was intention. According to the Tudjman concept, Serbs were to disappear from Croatia," finished quote 12.2.2012. Mr Tadic, Jeremic and Mr Gilasu, why you Serbian people accuse of waging war, when Croatian Interior Minister Josip Bolekovac says who led the war, is this now a convenient opportunity to answer and hope we never answer their nonsense again. Secondly, the same Josip Bolekovac said, quote – Serbs in Croatia, should have been declared Croatian citizens and called Orthodox Croats, it is necessary to prohibit the definition of Orthodox Serbs, finished the quote, so here you see who had the intention to wage war and what the war wanted to achieve. We move on, Mr. Gilas, Mr. Jeremic and Tadic, 24.5.1992, in the Square of the Republic, the former, today's Trg Ban Jelačić, Franjo Tudjman said, quote – it could have gone without war, but Croatia did not want it. We have estimated that only by war can we gain Croatia's independence and therefore we have conducted political negotiations, and beyond that we have created our own armed forces. If we hadn’t done so, we wouldn’t have achieved our goal, i.e. independence of Croatia, finished quote. Mr. Tadic, Jeremic and Mr. Gilas, is it clear to you now who led the war and never again in your life that you mentioned that the Serbs had waged war, Alexander Vukic and the MPs who are in this assembly today. As for the burning of houses, for which your introduction said three days ago, and addressed the citizens and the robbery of property, Mr. Gilas, Mr. Jeremic and Mr. Tadic, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, answered this question as well. Tudjman says, and I quote -- I admit that in 1990, 1991, there were excesses on our part such as burning and mined Serbian houses, that there was also a murder, that someone had to flee, before time, to pay attention to this word, from Croatia, but Serbs had to count on it. I'm proud of everything I've done. Franjo Tudjman, Ban Jelačić Square. Is it clear to you, Mr. Gilas, who led the war? Mr. Jeremiah, do you understand who made the war, and you object to us for defending our country? These are the most beautiful items in our biography, unlike you. Mr. Gilas and Mr. Wolfe Jeremic, you keep accusing Serbs and Alexander Vukic of war in the '90s. Mr. Gilas, the Serbs didn't cause war. That's what your mentors say. James Becker, U.S. Secretary of State until 1992, said who led the war, quote: "Slovenia and Croatia are the causes of civil war in the former Yugoslavia. Their violent separation was contrary to the laws of the Helsinki Agreement. Yugoslavia was pushed into civil war by an account. The unilateral declaration of independence against our warnings and the use of force is the cause of civil war" - Jelena Guskova, "The History of the Yugoslav Crisis" 1990-2000, Belgrade, 2003, page 38. Dear citizens, I apologize for bothering you a little bit, but to see how many lies lie every day on Goebbels' television excuse against the Serb people, the Serbian state, the president of the Republic and the MPs. James Becker is 12. 1. In 1995, at a session, believe it or not, the US Congress Foreign Affairs Committee said, "A unilateral declaration of independence by Croatia and Slovenia and their use of force in taking over the border crossings has sparked a civil war." What do you say now, Mr. Gilas, Mr. Jeremiah and Mr. Tadic? Mr. Gilas, Mr. Jeremic, is constantly attacking that we killed people and committed genocide against other nations. And I have to tell them to see who committed genocide in the '90s. And in one sentence -- I'm sorry that 99%, not to say 100%, the analyst on our televisions doesn't know what genocide is, to say what genocide is. Genocide isn't about war. It's about homocid. It's about killing. The genocide happens before the war, for example, when Stipe Mesic, before the war in 1990, said in March, in Gospić, in front of 10,000 umbrellas, rain was falling, quote: "When I am the president of Croatia, all Serbs stand under one umbrella." So that's the intention, that will destroy before the war, etc. I don't want to talk to anyone else. Here's what I'm going to say about Ed Murtic, that you're going to see the intention and that Storm was genocide. Says Edo Murtic, a well-known Croatian painter: "I felt terrible, I was troubled to hear from Tudjman a few months before the election in 1990. He came to my studio and enthusiastically began to talk about the Croatian people having to get their country with blood, that we, HDZ, would do what Pavelic failed in 1941, that 50% of Serbs would have to pack their bags and move away and 50% of others would become Croats or disappear." That's what Edo Murtic said, published in "Identity" 61, 2003, pages 8 to 11. Mr. Tadic, Jeremiah, Gilasu and Mr. Canak, and I call you, do you now understand who executed the genocide? This is a genocide intention, and it's not tied, you see, to war. And the very act of crime is an act of war. Let me quote Tudjman one more time at the end. He said like this: "The Serbs were not famously missing from these parts as if they were never there. They couldn't even pick up their dirty underpants. Let them have a happy journey, and those of the world who are giving us a lecture today to burn down Serbian houses, remember that the Bible principle of the Old Testament - an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth - was just a quote, "Feral Tribune" Split, 4th and 15th. Ten. 2011 Here, Mr. Gilas, tell your primer on TV who burned down Serbian houses and who burned down whose houses, not to say 45 thousand alienated apartments from Serbs and 30,000 burning houses, for which they never answered. In the end, Josip Bolekovac, once again an honorable Croat, said: "The Croats attacked the Serb anti-tank weapons in Borovo Selo to provoke war. For the same reason they took down the bridge in Osijek - "Interview", 12. 2. In 2009. The same Bolekovac added: "In 1991 the first Serbs and Yugoslavia, not Croatia, Gojko Sušak, Branimir Glavas and Vice Vukojevic, were attacked with anti-tank weapons by Borovo Selo to provoke war" - "Free Dalmatia" Split, 13. 02. In 2009. Dear citizens, these are irrefutable sources and facts, sources of Croatian authors and not Serbian ones. And whose interests is now being advocated by Dragan Gilas? This was the time to clear up for all time with these traitors of ours who sell Kosovo every day for nothing. Finally, however, since yesterday was an opportunity to say a few sentences about Kosovo, and it is about patriotism and higher education, they always accuse Aleksandra Vukic of Kosovo. So on 29 November 2018, Vuk Jeremic said: "Alexander Vukic is a traitorous bastard". I'll tell you now, I'll take another three or four minutes to tell you who the traitors are. Speaking of which, Vuk Jeremic, otherwise a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, said in December 2008, "KIM's entry into the UN is the best act Serbia should hope for." And that puts him in line and heads up the traitorous scum of our country. Here's the esteemed citizen, who's a traitorous bastard. You will never hear of Alexander Vukic, but will defend Kosovo peacefully and will never sign Kosovo's independence, unlike him. He's not the only one. Zoran Zivkovic, former Prime Minister, said at an international conference in Vienna in October 2003, "It doesn't matter to me, it doesn't matter who KIM is." That puts him in line for the traitorous scum of our country. Boris Tadic, on July 27th 2006, in a conversation with the US envoy, provided, quotes, "convincing that he had processed and accepted independence as an outcome", and today he says Vucic is selling Kosovo. Sergey Vesenovic, called pee, writes because he said he would piss on the grave of the president of the Republic, he said on January 31st 2019, quote, "Kosovo is lost. Kosovo belongs to Albanians, not Serbs. "That puts him in the line of the traitorous scum of our country. Sasa Jankovic, in a people called Sale Pranja, the pranja, because he killed the Gojkovic in his apartment, was quoted as saying on August 3, 2017, "Serbia is in the interest of Kosovo entering Interpol and thus acknowledging Kosovo's independence. "This puts Sale's pride in the ranks of the traitorous bastards of our country. Nenad Canak, in a people called Neso Gicoje, said on March 05th 2017, as a failed presidential candidate, I quote: "I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence. "Completed quote. This puts him in the traitorous scum of our country and daily poisons citizens of the Republic of Serbia on televisions with national frequencies. Cedomir Jovanovic said on 29 September 2015, "The state of Kosovo is an irrevocable act that only irresponsible politicians continue to ignore. "Completed quote. While I am at Nenad Chanka, a German diplomat, respected citizens, Gert Arens, in his book "Diplomacy on the edge" discovered that on December 3, 1991, Nenad Canak sent Lord Karington, believe it or not, but it is true, and a conference on Yugoslavia on Vojvodina, in which he writes, quote – the future of Vojvodina is to become a confederal unit of Serbia, but if Serbia does not accept it then it will be an independent state, a completed quote. Respected citizens who watch "Pink", "Hepi", first and second TVs, it is he who destroys Serbia, and they have destroyed Yugoslavia as well. Canak proposed to be president of the Republic in 1990, and you will be shocked by Otto von Habzburg. So, here, you see what kind of people it is. In the end, Dragan Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, a people called Điki Mafia, said in an interview with US Embassy Ambassador Jennifer Bras in Belgrade on 13 August 2003 -- I advocate the arrest of Ratko Mladic, and I will give up Kosovo and Metohija, finished the quote, and thus the Giki Mafia ranks in the ranks of our country's traitorous bastards. Professor Dr Rade Veljanovski, in a people called Rade ajara, because he eggs with PhDs, said on 21 April 2018, quote – Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence and provide him with a chair organised by the UN, and thus Rade eggs are classified as traitorous bastards of our country. In the end, Bosko Obradovic, in the people known as Bosko, a violent man, admitted Kosovo and Metohija at a secret meeting in the US ambassador's residence in Belgrade on June 13th 2019. It's the one who came to the talks with the president yesterday. If Bosko comes as president, he will immediately recognise Kosovo's independence. In no word at the meeting then did he contradict Kyle Scott and Matthew Palmer, who repeatedly repeated, quote that Kosovo was an independent state, completed a quote, and thus the Bosnian bully placed himself in the line of traitorous bastards of our country. If I hadn't quoted you, the honourable people's MPs, wearyed you more, and had it for days, we could do it by night, I think that neither Dragan Djilas nor this unfortunate Wolf Jeremic nor Boris Tadic, nor all the leaders I mentioned today, if they had at least a little cheek, but they didn't, because their cheek is thicker than my sole on a shoe, would never have gone on TV programs, but among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to see them on the street. These days, they conspired with all the vultures from the region and our domestic autoskillers in Serbia to tear down Alexander Vukic, to bring Serbia back to where it was dressed, and to find another new Vukic, so that the ashes would lift it up. Finally, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I address you, while our President Aleksandar Vukic has been returning our country's international reputation in the world for days, while implementing our country's stability, not only in our country, but also in the region and Europe, while implementing our citizens' health policy, the policy of modernising the Republic of Serbia, until these traitorous bastards fill their accounts by various destinations - Mauricias, Hong Kong, Switzerland. In 17 countries, Gilas 63 accounts from our pockets, respected citizens. I believe in the organs, the prosecution and the judiciary that justice will catch up with them, because she's slow, but she's available. It's been proven these days. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I made it too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7773	I thank Mr. Atlagic. Next up is Dr. Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7774	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, given that today there is a whole new law before us, to me as a representative of the young generation and ideology to which I belong is an extraordinary honor to be able to talk about the draft law on student organisation. Today's debate also includes a proposal for a law on higher education, so these two very important higher education laws will allow Serbia to regain full membership in the European Association for Quality Security in the Higher Education Sector. Young educated people are the perspective of every society. So, students are our future, and everyone has to bear in mind that the knowledge that they possess is unnecessarily taken away from them, because it's the most valuable resource they have. Presenting the foundation of the state, social developmentists, students deserve to be given better conditions of study in order to create a strong and stable state. We can say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and students have almost the same task and tend to the same goals, which is certainly the prosperity of society and each other must be support and support. The task of our MPs is to make laws, i.e. to create the best conditions for quality education, and students are there to encourage us and make us as effective as possible, because we all strive to create a modern society, a modern state, in which young people are educated, later hired and become a creative factor of development and, importantly, create families here, protect and build their own country that has invested in their education, and young people want their chances, because ambitions are characteristic to young people. Thus, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, as president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, opened the door for young people in this session, worthy of our knowledge, work, effort and energy. That's why I call on all our students to do their best, to acquire new knowledge and actively participate in innovation, but also in social life, because they will only provide their activists with a better place in society. I must point out that for the first time Serbia has received the Law on Student Organization. This bill creates several different student organisations, such as student conferences, in whose jurisdiction there will be the harmonisation of attitudes and coordination of student parliaments, as well as the impact on the registration of public education policy, which is of great importance for the student community, as well as the improvement of its position. This law systematically regulates all forms of student organisation, from what includes student organisation, what are student parliaments and how elections are conducted, to the various competences of student associations and organisations. So we can say that this bill is one of the roof regulations of a student organisation. For the first time, one law defines the way and procedure of elections for the student parliament, where based on best practices, a basic framework is given to conduct and organise elections for the student parliament as a form of student participation in the creation and implementation of education policy at the university. In the fight for a better future and better conditions of study and perspective after the process of education, students will always have the support of us MPs, as well as our minister of education. The basis of the progress of every modern society is quality education and, above all, the safety of students. We need to know that quality education is among the 17 goals of UN sustainable development as a possibility and a way to contribute to poverty reduction on our planet and improve the position of communities around the world. In order to regulate this area of higher education, it should be pointed out in particular that most countries in the region already have such a law. That is why it is very important to bring our legislation into line with European legislation. In Slovenia, for example, student organisation has been raised to a higher level, where students have full autonomy in work, but in a positive sense, to work in the right way and represent student interest. The adoption of this law will identify associations for students who deal with dormitories, as well as associations of students with disabilities, where they will have more representatives in student organisations, where they will be able to solve one of the basic problems, and this is a lack of literature in sign language, as well as insufficient extracurricular activities. The bill also provides for the establishment of a national alliance at university level, as well as the Academy of Professional Studies. A better student organisation will get what colleges themselves may not have in offer, which is more practice, a better relationship with companies, as well as the public sector, and it is very important that students get support in this way that they can start their own business in the future. I'm particularly glad that this particular meeting with so many young people has received the draft law on student organisation, which has been working for many years. The SPS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day, with one important message that students remain the creative factor of our society, that they always have the right to their opinion and to criticise social phenomena, because youth itself is the bearer of new knowledge, new spirit and new reforms, but also the keeper of the greatest values it will pass on to generations behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7775	Thank you. The next one is a colleague of Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7776	Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have two very important laws before us whose adoption represents a continuation of activities aimed at improving education in the Republic of Serbia, specifically high education. The law on student organisation, above all, overcomes the problem of too many general provisions relating to student organisation through the Law on Higher Education. In fact, only two members of the Higher Education Act, which has so far regulated the issue of student organisation, were not enough to contribute to the improvement of higher education. The adoption of a special law in a comprehensive way and clearly defines student organisations and student representative bodies, such as student conferences and student parliaments. The students of this law have been waiting two decades ago. The importance of this law for the student population, i.e. students, is the strong interest of student representatives during the process of preparing this proposal and their constructive role in the public debate. About 250,000 students in Serbia have so far been part of an unequal system of organisation, making some students privileged to others depending on universities or universities that are studying. It creates a huge difference, which can also have elements of discrimination. An insufficiently defined institutional framework for the work of student parliaments has left room for the expanded influence of representatives of higher education institutions on the work of student parliaments. A unique legal framework will allow all students, regardless of what high school they attend, the universal framework for organisation and co-operation and will erase the differences that so far existed between organisations from different higher school institutions. Also, this legislative proposal lays down clear rules for the relationship between student organisations and higher education institutions. This law also regulates the institutional framework for student organisation at independent higher education institutions and higher education institutions, i.e. the position, activity, competence, organisations, as well as the framework for achieving the common interests of students at national level through the work of student conferences and the National Student Organisation. This means that this law also enables the association of related student organisations at the level of the university, i.e. the Academy of Professional Studies, which further extends the space of institutionalised activities of the student organisations. Also, through the creation of the National Federation of Student Organizations, an authority has been created through which organised students will be able to coordinate the work of student organisations' alliances in accordance with the law on their own. This law will significantly contribute to the transparency of work and funding of student organisations, since this law for the first time sets out ways of financing these organisations and how they function within the legal system, and in line with the specific role they play in society and unique features. It is particularly important that this bill regulates students with disabilities, students enrolled on the basis of affirmative measures and students at risk of social exclusion. This law will allow specific problems encountered by members of these groups to be taken into account when making decisions that will significantly affect their lives during their studies. Also, this law will allow equal representation of members of both genders in legitimate representative organisations, i.e. student parliaments. Most countries in the region already have such legislation, which is certainly important for harmonising our legislation with European legislation. The adoption of this law will allow full membership of Serbian student organisations in the European Student Union and Serbia's return to full membership in the European Association for the Quality of Higher Education Checks of ENQA. In view of all the above and due to all the necessary improvements made by this law to students, student organisations, and in accordance with the requirements of students and in accordance with the standards of the European High Education Quality Verification Association, the SDPS will support this bill, as well as amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7777	Thank you. Next is counterpart Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7778	Thank you. Respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as a member of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, I had a need to come forward and especially explain some things to the citizens of Serbia, how important these two laws are. The education system is in addition to health care, in fact, the largest state system and is of paramount importance to the development of our society. Investment in young people is imperative because the future rests on young people. This was best seen during the pandemic and switching to online or hybrid teaching and raising citizens' awareness of how important digitisation is. The reforming of the system is inevitable, because we can stay at the 20th century level, and technology is going at a dizzy rate. Reforms in the education system are permanent and continuous and are an adequate response to the challenges that a whole society faces. So we're already living in a science-fiction film, for example. That we watched in 2000, and now it's 2021. Today we have before us a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education and the Proposal for a Law on Student Organization. The main goal is for Serbia to again become a full member of the European Quality Security Association in higher education or to reduce ENQA, which would be significant for its positioning in the international higher education area. Amendments to the Higher Education Act lays down an appropriate legal framework for the national accreditation and quality checking body in higher education and fully meets European standards. This will make a significant contribution to our diplomas in other countries in Europe. The proposed amendments and additions relating to the more precise demarcation of competences by the National Council for Higher Education and the National Accreditation Body in the field of quality checks and accreditation of higher education institutions and student programmes. This National Accreditation Body not only assesses the conditions for a higher education institution, but also the quality of lecturers. For example, it should be noted. that the appeal committee that has been in the National Accreditation Body is now located, not in the National Council, which is absolutely where it belongs. The draft law also provides for the harmonisation of legal regulations with specialities. Additional conditions for obtaining consent are provided for, for example, Church bodies and religious communities for lecturers at the Theological Higher School Academy, as well as for the consent to enroll in academic studies in the field of theology, which is necessary because it is something specific and they are the ones who need to instill the right values. That's why they need special attention. We adopted the draft Law on Higher Education in 2017. These are additions and alterations. However, the Law on Student Organization is now being adopted for the first time and provides for two types of organisation. One type of organization is in student parliaments and student conferences. The draft law sets out the conditions for the association to meet in order to be considered a student organisation. Questions related to the student parliament are better settled, then jurisdiction, procedure, election of members and, of course, funding. In this way, students will be able to organize themselves better, and the organisation will be uniform, less prone to abuse and to function in the needs of the students themselves, and as we have seen in the public hearings students are also interested in taking part. In the current Higher Education Act, there is no more detailed, for example, legislative regulations on composition, work, how to choose and finance student representative bodies. The law has taken a major step towards full involvement of students in the work of higher education institutions. Their representatives will have the right to participate in the decision-making process of a higher education institution. All of this, I hope, is that, in extreme form, it will contribute to preventing the narrow throats of individual professors or individual subjects where students rarely leave college after years of trying to pass exams. For example, we know the Serbian literature of the 20th century or the syntax of Serbian language in Philology, then pharmacology at Pharmacy, Geography, Serbia at the Faculty of Geography, then physiology in Chemical, analysis one and two at Mathematical, etc. I only mentioned the part that shows the scope of the Ministry of Education, Science, Information Society, because all we're talking about is the foundation. If we have an educated nation, the prosperity of our Serbia will be far faster. The education system represents one projection of the future, not for five, but for 30, 40, 50 years, and that is why all of us who, in part, participate in law-making must be very responsible, because this affects the lives of citizens and is of great importance to the future of the country, because it is an engine, a driver of positive change. Serbia's government showed Serbia's attitude towards education, science and technological development through the prime minister's exposés. Technology parks and start-up projects are our reality, not just an idea. These laws, which are before us today, have resolved many ambiguities, and I thank you for coming to one and the other with great attention and, of course, in the voting day, I will absolutely vote for both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7779	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must say that unlike my other colleagues, the bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Higher Education is not quite as idyllic as it seems, because it is a problematic article 20. Proposal for a law relating to the 93rd Basic Law on Higher Education. Namely, you in Article 20. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education makes it impossible for teachers whose working relationship has been extended after 65 years of life to be elected to the organs of the higher education institution and its organisational units. That's a violation of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 18. The labour law. Article 21 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 18. The labour law prohibits any kind of discrimination, including discrimination on the basis of years of life. Decision as provided for in Article 20. The bill violates the principle of equality, as teachers are discriminated against and they are forbidden to be elected to the organs of the higher education institution and its organisational units, based only on years of life. So, on the basis of years of life alone, the fact that their working relationship was extended after 65 years of age. I want to tell you, Mr. Minister, that the legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia do not distinguish between the two types of working relationships between working relationships that involve all rights and obligations and working relationships in which there are only certain rights and obligations, and there are no rights and obligations. So in the Republic of Serbia, there is a unique system of working-law relations and what you predicted cannot happen, that there are two types of teachers. One teacher who has all the rights of employment and another category of teachers who do not have all the rights of employment just because they turned 65 years old. You thus discriminate against people who are over 65 years of age, who have extended their working relationship at universities, or at universities in the Republic of Serbia. So this provision is very controversial both from the point of view of the Constitution and from the point of view of the Labour Act. Your appeal to the authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education adopted by the National Assembly at the beginning of this year absolutely does not stand, Mr. Minister, because this authentic interpretation refers to the definition of a provision of the Law on Higher Education under which the Dean, therefore the managing authority, not the managing authority, dean of the university, or the rector of the university cannot be a teacher who is not in a permanent working relationship, or who is not in working relation to indefinite time. So, the authentic interpretation of the Law on Higher Education refers to deans and rectors, and what you suggest applies to other bodies of higher education institutions, such as teaching and scientific councils of the university. We're now in a paradoxal situation. We come to the situation that, for example, a regular university professor who has an extended working relationship after 65 years of life can't be a member, be careful, a teaching-science council, can't be a member of the university council, but therefore a student can be a member of the university council and can be a member of a teaching-science council. I don't mind students being members of higher education bodies, but it doesn't make any sense that a regular professor with an extended working relationship can't be a member of a teaching and scientific council or a member of a college council. So it doesn't matter. I am surprised by your presentation and the presentation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Zukorlic, who do not seem to distinguish between the two types of bodies that exist in higher education institutions. They're one of the management bodies. So it's the dean at the university and it's the rector of the university. For them, it is undeniable that they must be teachers who are in working relation to indefinite times, but the intensity of your bill is not touched by dean and rectors, but it is touched by teachers who have extended working relationships, and who, for my very unknown reason, forbid them to be elected to the organs of higher education institutions. The very word of the organs implies that it is collective organs. The management body is an incoherent organ. So there's one dean, there's one rector. These are incoherent bodies, but in the draft law it is clear from the dictation of Article 20 that it is collective bodies. They're managing bodies. They're teaching-science bigger and they're college advice, or university advice. So there's absolutely no legal logic for a man who's a regular professor, to whom an extended working relationship is forbidden to be a member of a teaching-science council or a member of a college council, and to make it possible for a student. Now it turns out that a regular professor is not competent to be a member of the NN council and a member of the council, and a student is. I think they're competent both, and I think regular professors are far competent. So I think you should think about what I told you. I've submitted two amendments. One refers to Article 20, the other refers to Article 32 and I call on my distinguished colleagues to support these amendments both at the Committee on Education and at the session of the National Assembly because in the era when any kind of discrimination is eliminated in Serbia based on either national, religious, racial, full and every other one, on the basis of years of life, I think it is unacceptable. We had a debate here a few weeks ago where one of the ministers in the government gave us such a letter that it was equality, that the ban on discrimination was one of the basic postulates on which the Republic of Serbia should rest, so we led some MPs here with that respected minister, because she insists that it be titled as well, and I have nothing against it, we conducted even bile debates and linguistic variations on how to avoid discrimination against citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so we agreed to have in the Republic of Serbia and ministers and combatants and soldiers, etc. And again I say I have nothing against letting everyone, or my calling and my profession call me what it wants, I'm not going in, I'm not an expert in linguistics, but I understand myself for a little bit, and I think what you're about to do in Article 20. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education is completely, to say, in one imbalance with what is the government's intensity, which is to abolish any kind of discrimination in the Republic of Serbia. So, Mr. Minister, I urge you to consider these two amendments that I have submitted, because I don't think there's really any reason, unless someone is waging a personal war against someone, but the laws aren't written by a person, the laws are general acts that should apply for a future period of time, for an indefinite number of faces. If this is what you or one of your associates suggested in order to wage a personal war against a particular teacher at a particular university, or university, then I don't think it's good because we absolutely don't need such wars, or the National Assembly, I also want to tell you, it needs to serve as a front for some individual to wage a personal war against some teacher. If that's the reason to change the Law on Higher Education in this part, then that reason absolutely doesn't stand. Let each of his own personal wars take place elsewhere, not here in the National Assembly. It's not right. This law, beware, cannot be voted without the Legislative Group Alexander Vukic – For our children. As president of the parliamentary group, I have a responsibility not to abuse the parliamentary group, because it seems to me, and you try to convince me, that this Article 20 has been written out of some personal motives. It's not written in principle, because I don't see what the principle is here. So, the state, better said, colleges trust a regular professor to extend his working relationship and after 65 years of life, they trust him to be professional, to be responsible, to be a good educator, to be able to work with students, to be able to pass on knowledge to them, but what he can't do, to be a member of a teaching and scientific council member. So he can do more and he can't do less. That doesn't make any sense. So, as president of the parliamentary group, I have to be a little more open than my colleagues who, let me say, not to be offended, only MPs, I am also the president of the parliamentary group and I have to put some critical tones into this discussion because I see that there are no such critical tones today, and the MPs are not really obliged to fulfil every order and every wish of any individual from the executive government, because I don't think this is exactly the definitive position of the government. I'm not sure. I think this is about some personal motives and some personal interests, but that's why I'm telling you without Alexander Vukic's MP group – for our children, this bill, as it is written, cannot be voted upon, and therefore I suggest you give me some additional explanations - how it is possible that someone can be a teacher after 65 years of life and teach and question students and be in committees to defend master's works and doctoral dissertations etc. So it's still one responsible job that involves great knowledge, great energy, great effort, a great waste of time, and imagine not being able to come to a session of the NN council and raise your hand or be for or against any decision? I don't see any logic in that, and that's why I'd ask you to explain to me what the principle here may be of these principles and there are, but I, believe me, I absolutely don't see it here, except that I see discrimination between paroled young teachers and older teachers. What I see is that you have lost sight of the fact that when you extend a working relationship to someone, extend their working relationship, you have automatically extended all the rights and obligations that a regular professor has from that working relationship, and one of those rights is to be a member of an organ, so, collective bodies, not a business body that is an in-house body, but a collective body of governance in colleges, or at universities in the Republic of Serbia, otherwise we will come to a very, very strange situation which, in my opinion, is a humble opinion directly contrary to the constitution, to extend someone's working relationship, but you can't limit the right and obligations of a work relationship body, so you can – and you can do that, but you can't be chosen in the organs, I insist on that it is clear that it's about collective bodies, but you can't be a member of a member of the university body, or at the university. As regards the amendment to Article 32, it is only a logical trace of this amendment to Article 20. Everything else is more correct. Don't applaud yet, it's still early. There's something much more important, I think it's more politically important. This, Minister of Education, says you don't need to rush some things and not be personal, and that's why I need to say it. The administrative court has annulled the solution to the Ph.D. So Finance Minister Sinisha Mali is a doctor of science again today and I congratulate him on that. It's a man who's been through really one media torture, one media link of our political opponents who couldn't find anything wrong with that man in that basic job that works as a finance minister, and then through the university, first through FON, then through the University of Belgrade, in every way possible, they tried to disqualify him as a plagiarist and took away his scientific title as a doctor of science, but here, justice is, as you can see, slow but reaching and administrative court has annulled this solution so that Sinisha Mali is a doctor of science again. This is what I told you, Mr. Ruzic, to avoid the situation of making hasty and fast solutions from some personal motives. Thus, at the University of Belgrade v. Sinisha Malia, those who had already passed the verdict in advance, and then they only had to give the verdict some content because he had been convicted as a plagiarist in advance. We killed ourselves here in the National Assembly to explain that there is no page in his doctorate that is plagiarized, neither and that we have not seen any proof that anything is plagiarized. However, the verdict was passed and only had to be carried out. So, when things get wrong, don't get me wrong, but when things get raped, when things break over your knees, when something by force of God you want to do it, it can't end up good. This is a success for Sinisha Mali, there is no doubt about it, but this is a disgrace from the University of Belgrade. You can't just take away a doctorate of science. Now, if I were to start reading you the subject of a doctorate that's passed at universities in Serbia, someone would get their hair on their head, but people became doctors of science and move on. But someone wanted to make a mistake with Sinishi Malom, and he put the entire University of Belgrade in that position. So what do we do now? Who's gonna answer for this? They were occupied by the rectorate. Remember, Ivanka Popovic, a woman from the stained veins, joined her co-workers at the university to explain that Sinisa Mali is a liar, how is the copyist, how is the plagiarist, how is his doctorate no good, and now that he's undermining the line - who's here at the loss? Well, the Belgrade University, which has been a tradition since 1860 and some year when the Belgrade High School was founded, was lost, and in 1905, the High School grew up in Belgrade University. Now imagine someone had enough courage, and I would say even crazy, that such an institution as the Belgrade University, which survived all possible earthquakes in Serbian and Yugoslav history, would function as a political struggle against one man. So, Mr. Minister, avoid this situation so that the laws here are served to the MPs because someone, I'm not saying you, but someone from your ministry, or some other ministry, has something against some particular teacher at some college, or university. This is not principled and it is not correct that the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, who bravely defended President Vukic's policy on Kosovo and Metohija yesterday, today puts her cowardly egg in a position to be an instrument for conducting personal wars in some universities, or universities. That's not good. If there are any conflicts, if there are any animosities I think there is a civilized way to resolve these conflicts, not to come to the Assembly with certain legal solutions that I have and that seem to be motivated by some personal reasons. Think about it, Mr. Minister, you have plenty of time to discuss the amendments. I of these two amendments, there aren't many, I won't give up, because I think they really are contrary to the Constitution and they are contrary to the Labour Act, and they are contrary to this generally declared policy on the prohibition of any kind of discrimination in the Republic of Serbia, including discrimination on the basis of years of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7781	I thank Mr. Martinovic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7782	I really thank Mr. Martinovic for this elaborate. I am convinced that this good intention and your legal knowledge is something that is the orientation of what you have stated. I think we've known each other long enough that you can't put me in that context of some personal desire, intensity, intent. After all, in this morning's introduction, we talked about what the accent really is. The accent is on the knowledge and experience of those professors I'm talking about, and it's about exceptions, not the rule, because if the rule were, then they'd probably be working until 70, 72, 75, and it's not at all controversial, but the law prescribes something else. It is this Law of Work that you mentioned that they are working to raise this teaching rejuvenation, and I note that it is an armed or limited mandate. Governance bodies as such if you are a member of a management body, then you are practically in a way that you manage. I reminded myself of what was done in February this year. So, there's been an authentic interpretation, and if there's no discrimination at the time, then there's not even now. But I just want to point out one thing, I think it's legitimate and extremely correct on your part that you have submitted that amendment, this other one is more connected to harmonisation if this amendment is adopted. So, neither is the law written with “ad person” I hope that the amendment is not written with “ad person”, and whether it is written with “ad person” will you of course decide on the day of the vote. Among other things, you said you were the strongest parliamentary group in the world so I didn't see a single problem in this regard. Well, thank you, but please don't put me in that context, because I'm not from that story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7783	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7784	Well, I didn't say we were the strongest members of the group, but the citizens said in the election. That's one thing. The other thing is, you keep explaining to me how we brought authentic interpretation. Well, I know we brought it. I suggested an authentic interpretation. I know better what I wrote in that proposal than you, with all due respect to you as Minister. The intensity of my proposal was to clearly define whether a teacher who is in a working relationship with a certain time could be a dean and a rector or not, and the National Assembly decided that a dean, a relationship rector could be a teacher who is in working relation to indefinite time. So this refers to the function of the dean and to the function of the rector, these are incoherent organs. An innocuous organ is an organ that is made up of one person. So one person performs a function. It's like the President of the Republic to you, and yet you're part of a collective body that's government. That's how it is for you at high school institutions, there are in-house organs and there are collective organs. Innocous organs are a dean at the university and a rector at the university, and there are collective bodies that are teachingly and scientifically larger and the Council of the College and that your invitation to authentic interpretation absolutely does not stand. I don't know who's giving you legal advice, but whoever advises you, I don't think he's giving you good advice. I'm not mad at you. I didn't say you were involved in some personal war, but it seems to me that some who may be hiding behind you or would like to hide behind the congregation's majority lead a personal war against a certain teacher from asking God what reasons. I really don't want to get into that. So the authentic interpretation you insist on refers to the deans and the rectors. It doesn't apply to collective organs. You say - we should work on rejuvenating the personnel. I agree, but I don't understand how this process of rejuvenation in colleges, or universities, has something to do with the fact that someone who has an extended working relationship can't be in a teaching and scientific council, or can't be a member of the university council. Well, I guess his age is precisely because of his years, with his experience, which he has passed and perhaps a period of self-management and transition and transition to the Bologna system of education, etc., and how he can help his younger colleagues manage the teaching council and the university council. So, these are very serious things. It would not be good to ban any discrimination in Serbia, and to impose discrimination on a small door based on years of life. The fact that someone turned 65 years old, and his working relationship was extended, the other thing is that he's not, that his working relationship isn't extended, please go to retirement, fish on Savi, lead grandkids by hand, I don't have any problem with it, but the man has an extended working relationship, and now you're telling the bill that you've extended your working relationship, but you don't have all the rights and obligations, but let's just let it go. It is contrary to the Constitution, it is contrary to the Labour Act, because if I am in a working relationship, and even for a certain time, I have all the rights and obligations of a working relationship as well as a man who is in a working relationship with indefinite time. It's just that his situation is more comfortable in a personal sense, because he knows he'll be in a working relationship who knows when, and I know for a certain time, but everything else has to be the same for everyone and can't be discrimination based on it. So on one side there are deans and rectors, there is undeniable, there must be a teacher in working relation to indefinite time. When it comes to collective bodies, I don't see why a teacher who has an extended working relationship cannot be a member of the Educational and Scientific Council or a member of the University Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7785	Is there any need for further discussion? Okay. Just so there's no confusion, this has nothing to do with the SPS. Your State Secretary for Higher Education from the SNS, therefore, so that there will be no problem afterwards and it turns out that personal interest and everything else, if there is one at Branko Ruzic's, I will immediately take him down. So, according to this, you're all here and I'm asking you to sort these things out. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7786	I thank you, Mr. Dacic. I had no real intention of reporting for the word, but I just want to say one principled thing, it has nothing to do with Mr. Ruzic, nor Mrs. Secretary of State, nor with the assistant minister, one principled thing, it is true that in most cases, the National Assembly adopts what the Government proposes. In most cases, it is common, it is practice and it is quite normal, but in certain situations, the MP simply has to react if he notices that there is such a huge flaw as the one concerning the direct attack on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, this is not directed against anyone, especially not against Mr Ruzic, not against the SPS, not against anyone, but especially my colleagues from the SNS who are at the Ministry of Education. There's just one principled thing here. So we're the defenders here after all. I guess we swore on that constitution. We swore to defend, as it was, Mr Dacic, the text of the People's MP's oath, "that I would defend civil rights and freedoms for the best of knowledge and skill." Here, I am, by my best knowledge and skill, defending those rights. So I'm defending the rights of people to be elected organs of a higher school institution even though they're over 65 years old. I mean, how someone at 65, at 69, with 70 years of life in certain countries can be president of the Republic, which is much harder, and we can't have him as a member of a teaching and scientific council. I mean, this solution is illogical, it's against the constitution, and it's not good to go. Of course, most people can decide what they want, but most of them have to take care of both the Constitution and the oaths that we have all taken as ambassadors.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7787	I didn't say anything contrary to what you said. I feel the same way, we can refuse this law. We own to do what we want, because we are the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I'm just talking about something else. These are not representatives of any other party except ours. This law must have been written for months. There was plenty of time to discuss it and consult. I am speaking in principle, and I was saying that in government sessions, too, just to avoid situations like this, that we are now in the Assembly discussing something that is not good or is good. I absolutely just want to tell you, since you mentioned Ruzic and talked about some personal conflicts, etc., I do not believe that Ruzic has any personal conflict because he is not from that sphere. If he does, he'll be replaced. I didn't put it to a vote, I know you'd be the one to change it, but good. Let's move on. I had to go into the O.R. to calm the situation down, please. George, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7788	Thank you, Your Honor. It's mentioned in the SPS, so I didn't have any other basis for reporting except on that basis, and I didn't want to deepen the debate, nor to break up any conflict. On the contrary, I believe that we have a common goal and a common interest, which is to adopt the best possible law. The assembly is probably the place where we talk about alternatives to how to get to the best legal solutions. I deeply respect my colleague Martinovic and his legal knowledge and I know what authentic interpretation is specific. What I wanted to say is that we can certainly resolve this in the best possible way, with respect of course of rights and all procedures, and of course we can resolve with one quality debate that would be on the next Committee on Science, Education and Technology, as is already the full name of the committee, where, among other things, the amendments that have been tabled will be discussed. The common goal and interest of all of us is to reach the best possible solution. As for the SPS, of course, the SPS did not participate in making this bill itself, and I am fully convinced that Mr Ruzic, nor anyone from the SPS, has any personal motive or any personal animosity. So the point is also the goal one, let's get past this, let's keep talking about this with all due respect for your legal knowledge, I really don't. You know how much I respect and respect you. Let us discuss this at the board meeting when Mr Zukorlic schedules a specific session of the committee to discuss and discuss amendments. I hope so, and I am fully convinced that, as always, we will come up with the best solutions that will be in the best interests of the citizens. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7789	Okay. I don't know who you're replicating, but I don't think Mr. Martinovic will, since you two are friends. I believe, in principle, whether the minister from the SPS, the SNS or from another party is real, that before something comes to the Assembly and when it comes and until it comes to the government's session, which was also cases in the government's session, not to pay enough attention to the different opinions, nor to the procedure and the need, I have repeatedly pointed out here that in our mutual interest it would be that our committees and parliamentary groups would be involved in the process, not just a proposal when it comes here to submit amendments, but also when drafts are put forward, proposals in the government's procedure in some way just to avoid the situation. This isn't the only case. I only hope that it will be principled Mr. Martinovic and when your ministers come, you may be a little sharper, they won't be angry. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic: They are all ours. They're all ours, Professor. Thank you. Let's move on, the word has Natasa Ivanovic. I'm not interested in this subject right now, because I'm up to 65. I have to go now. I'd like to ask you not to cause any trouble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7790	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs and, of course, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, student organisation as an important factor in higher education has existed in different forms since the very beginning of higher education in our country. The 2005 law provides a framework for the participation of students in higher education frameworks and for the existence of a student parliament. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is the provision of Article 97(10). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which among other things is prescribed that the Republic regulates and provides a system in the field of education. A proposal for a law on student organisation is needed in order to regulate this area of the higher education system and to cover all aspects of the student organisation. This law exists in most countries of our region, which is certainly related to the harmonisation of our legislation with European legislation. The Working Group on Draft Law on Student Organization has analysed for a year all existing practices of student organisation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the region. Comparing practices and existing legal solutions in other countries has approached the draft law on student organisation, which would cover all the necessary aspects of this area and eliminate problems in operation. As part of the draft law on student organisation, unlike the Law on Higher Education, it recognises and defines the functioning of student organisations and students' organisations, while the Law on Higher Education defined the existence of a student parliament. The objectives of the adoption of the law on student organisation are: to improve and comply with European standards in this area, to regulate structures within the framework of student organisation, to regulate the institutional framework for student organisation in independent higher education institutions and higher education institutions, to regulate positions, to work, to function, to organise and to fund organisations and to fund student parliaments and student organisations, to regulate the framework for achieving common interests at national level through the work of student conferences and national student organisations. According to the above, the draft law on student organisation was drawn up as the first law specifically governing this area of the higher education system. Of course, in the voting day, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7791	Thank you. The word is Mr. Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7792	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers with associates, we are facing today a set of very important and constructive draft laws. I'd like to pay my attention to the draft law on student organisation. Two years after the signing of the Bologna Declaration and three years after the Sorbonne Declaration, the Prague Conference was held at which the so-called "Sorbon Declaration" was signed. It's a comedian powder. The reminders, for the sake of signing the Bologna Declaration in 1999, agreed to hold ministerial conferences every two years to submit reports on the application of the Bologna Process, share experiences and carry out the signing of a communiqué, i.e. a memorandum or official reports signed by all countries that have accepted the Bologna Process. This is where countries of Europe who did not do so in 1999 decided to accept the Bologna Process. Five conferences were held today -- Prague in 2001, Berlin in 2003, when Serbia officially belonged to the Bologna Process and ratified the Bologna Declaration. After that, we had a Bergen Conference in 2005, London in 2007 and the final one in Brussels in 2009 to complete the implementation of the Bologna Process in 2010. What is very important for this topic is the Prague Conference, i.e. the Prague Communists, when students are recognised as equal partners in decision making, that is, when students are officially considered full members of the academic community. Since then, student participation and student organisation has been the process of involving students in decision-making at all levels, primarily institutional and then national, regional, European and of course decisions on all issues. So the student organisation becomes an important factor in higher education, while the academic community represents an alarm that in everyday reality should detect important problems and draw attention to them. And not just that. The academic community must provide analysis based on which media and institutions will react, and students as full members of the academic community have absolutely the right to participate in the process. Unfortunately, by 2012, the academic community had no social power and was reduced, in fact, to the margin. The absence of free critical thoughts and one inability to come up with and defend the general interest. The 2005 law, more specifically the Law on Higher Education, gives some framework for the participation of students in higher education frameworks and prescribes the existence of a student parliament. However, it has been shown that since 2005 and the period of forming the first student parliaments of practice in universities and universities are completely different. The development and way of functioning depended entirely on local opportunities. This situation in the student organisation has led to great difficulties. The student's voice was almost unheard of, and there was a complete threat to the functioning of this segment of higher education. The Javaschluk of individual professors and colleges went so far that some have publicly pointed out that they do not accept the Bologna Declaration, although the state of Serbia has ratified it, and that practice and rules in colleges will decide, they, not the state and the resolution ministry. It finally gets in the way of these anomalies. The state of Serbia and how it recognises the voice of young people, i.e. the voice of students, and this law, that is, the first draft law on student organisation, is in favour of this constitution. So, this bill for the first time clearly defines the functioning of student organisations, makes a distinction between student organisations and students' organisations, fully clearly defines student representative bodies, so student conferences and student parliaments, the participation of students in professional bodies and their bodies in proportion of 20%, and gives students the first vote when proposing candidates for the body of employment. Also, the student parliament is entitled to adopt its own financial plan, which is an integral part of the higher education institution's financial plan, and therefore only the adoption of the institution's financial plan is a student issue. So this is a good, constructive bill, which clearly defines students' rights, so I, and I hope my colleagues, will support this bill, in hopes that it will be the basis for a strong and modern Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7793	I thank Mr. Bursac. Next is People's Messenger Milos Bandur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7794	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, allow me to comment on the amendment and addition of the Law on Higher Education. I will begin my discussion with the impressions of a debate that has just been conducted on certain proposals for legal solutions. I can tell you that my impression when I read a "disputed" member of the law where teachers are allowed to work in college after they were 65 years of age, but they are limited by employment. I was pleased with such a formulation because we are witnessing that there is no clear formulation in the previous law, although from the very sense of the existing law we see what intensity is and what is the essence of that member, we do not see it and it has been misused in practice. So it was quite clear, and without this clarification, that someone who turns 65 should retire. That's clear. However, there are exceptional cases, but only exceptional cases, when it comes to teachers who have an international reputation, who have left behind a number of PhDs and people who have been elected to the highest calling of a regular professor or made an exceptional scientific contribution to the university, that only these people can continue to work on a particular contract and after retirement for two to five years, depending on the assessment of the body of employment or the governing body, I now do not know which of these two bodies, colleges or universities. They are left to work to help create a scientific rejuvenation, to be members of a committee to defend doctoral dissertation, to be mentors, commission presidents, they are not engaged at all levels of study, but only in doctoral and master studies. Such professors do not engage in basic academic studies, so they are left in a working relationship, i.e. they are given a working relationship to specific jobs. I really do now, given that our university and our higher education are burdened with both non-impression and various lobbyist and group interests, in order to leave the possibility of someone staying behind after 65 to work and become a dean or member of a council or president of a university or university council being incorrect. However, I can agree with Professor Martinovic, a national MP, in a section where he thinks a professor who engages after 65 can be a member of the professional authorities. I think that after 65 years of working at the university or university, a professor can and should be a member of a teaching and scientific council, because it is an expert body of the university, but that he should not be a member of a body of employment, such as a dean, a prodigal, etc., nor a member of a council or president of a university council, because he simply is not left in a working relationship after 65 years to do these jobs, but rather certain jobs and tasks related to science. So, professional bodies yes, the bodies of business and management do not. I can't agree that it's discrimination, because I'm the act that you as a dean or advice of a university give a certain professor the right to work after 65 years against all other colleagues is positive discrimination. So you're positively discriminating a certain colleague by giving him the right to work after 65, and you're telling everyone else - you have to retire. Very often it's leaving after 65th and it's a retirement for everyone else connected to lobbying interests, clans and groups at universities and universities. That's why I don't fully agree with my colleague Martinovic, and I think the legislator had a very good intention when he made a legal solution like this, but I think he could have let a professor who worked on a specific after 65 become a member of the university's professional bodies. In that part, I can agree. Because, you know, everyone else who retires at 65 can say, "Wait, I'm being discriminated, why don't I work until I'm 70?" And then all the other citizens who do other jobs can say -- and why am I going to retirement when I'm 65, so I can work until I'm 70? Someone just threw it in here -- they're not professional. You know, those grades and evaluations that the professor can continue to work after 65, which, at 65, will retire in the school year when he is 65 years old, should be based on objective criteria, but these are subjective evaluations and evaluations of the body of the business. However, it all comes down to who is in what kind of relationship, and unfortunately, in our practice, weighs all objective facts about someone's work, results, etc. Well, if someone's in the mercy of the dean and the council, he's retired at 65, and if someone's in the mercy of the dean and the council, he can work until 70. That's why I have a lot of understanding for this legal solution and I was sincerely happy with it when I read it, but I can also understand my fellow Martinovic's remarks that when it comes to the professional bodies of the university, or the higher education institution, that this professor can be a member of them and that he is doing certain tasks uninterruptedly, although the intensity of both the previous and the existing law is quite clear - it is clear why and why this man's jobs are left in a working relationship and there is no dilemma there. There's something else I want to say. I was also happy about another solution, whose victim I was in the previous law and personally, and I see that this will not happen in the future, because this law will allow officials of local self-government at the post of deputy or mayor, the president of the municipality or vice president, to work at the same time at the university or university. I personally had the experience of getting a solution for the deputy mayor, where the working relationship was divided, or working time. In fact, 100% of the working hours were divided between the university I work at and the city's administration. And that was good at first, until there was an interpretation from the Ministry of State and local self-government that the deputy mayor had to work full-time in the city. This resulted in a working relationship at the university being put into a standstill, and when you put a working relationship in a standstill, you put in the standing and calling that you have, and that means that those 30% you have the right to, because everyone has the right to work up to 130% of some standard or 130% of full-time, you can't theoretically achieve because calling is about regular working relationships. So, if you put your regular working relationship on hold, you put in a call. You work in the city 100%, you have the right to another 30%, but you can't take advantage of it because calling you calms and you're so matered, even though the Anti-Corruption Agency tells you - that a public official, a state official, has the right to engage in scientific, teaching, cultural and other activities and work, etc. It's perfectly logical because a professor of university has no obligation as someone who works behind a machine, on a track, or in a kiosk, that he has to be eight or ten hours past his machine and at his workplace, but does his jobs in a very comfortable weather format and has time to do his job and to do his job as a professor. So this solution that you have now made, that a professor of the university or a teacher, more specifically, he can be a doctor, an emergency or a regular professor, in addition to teaching at the university even though he is in a public office that requires full-time work. I hope that you had in mind that teaching is not put into rest, that this period is ongoing, so that after five years he can regularly compete for the same or new teaching. Yeah. That's where we agree. What I'm still trying to say is that the intensity of this law is to correct the conditions for quality assurance and that's what's key. We must admit that our higher education has certain quality issues, both formal quality conditions and essential. And it is good that the tasks of the National Council are completely separate from the tasks of the National Accreditation Body and that the National Council is no longer involved in higher education in accreditation matters, will not appoint reviewers, will not choose an accreditation committee, will not choose the Board of Appeal, because, according to existing legal solutions, turn-turn, it all comes down to the fact that the whole process is in the hands of the National Council and that the National Council is through its bodies, such as the accreditation commission or the appeal committee it forms for each case, essentially manages the process and ultimately makes the appropriate decisions, which is wrong. This solution proposed that the entire process of accreditation of higher education institutions and study programmes be rounded up within the National Accreditation Body and that the procedure be two-stage in the event of a certain complaint from the higher school institution, that the complaint goes first to the accreditation committee, and then, in any case, if the complainant is dissatisfied with the Board of Appeal, that the Board of Appeal can return to the decision or make, the acretation commission's decision, it says that the matter in the second instance can be resolved completely different from that resolved in the first degree. This also speaks of the way both the accreditation and the appeal committee are elected, through a public call, in favour of the increased independence of one and the other bodies, i.e. the authorities in the process of accreditation and decision-making. So I find those solutions very good. But you know that we are prone to many marifettelus and that, let's say, at least when it comes to meeting formal conditions, that since there is a condition that for one study programme 70% of teachers are in a permanent working relationship, that is to say, working full-time in a higher education institution, and 30% can be hired on the side, you often have a case of teachers who simply walk from one higher school institution to another who should accredit themselves or themselves or an appropriate study programme in order to meet certain conditions. So teachers simply make contracts and break up solutions only until the process is completed. As soon as the accreditation process is completed, there's no sign of any number of teachers who've figured in the papers. I think that this process of control, external control must be more frequent and that mechanisms are designed to ensure that external control is not only after four years of obtaining accreditation, but that, on a proposal from the Ministry or the National Council, it is more common. Otherwise, this whole story with the Higher Education Act is actually something that started in 2005 and the goal was, of course, to facilitate study, to speed up study, to reduce the average study time, because then the indicators said that the most frequently dropped and people gave up studying at the second year, to about 48% of people, or students, give up studying at the second year of study. Indeed, students have accepted the 2005 law more easily than teachers of a higher education institution. I have to say that the appearance of private universities and universities and state colleges and higher education schools were put in one forced competition, they were brought into a position to knowingly tackle the criteria for passing exams, so that they would not lose students, or to win students, which all affected the reduction of the quality of study on average and, by my estimate, of course, an inflation degree which is not good, because when everyone has diplomas, then we don't know whose diploma is the right, whose is not. This is best seen in doctoral diplomas, where today you have 10 times more PhDs, or defense PhDs a year, than 10 years ago. The fact that there has also been a drop in state universities tells the fact that from, say, 2000 and some doctorate who have been defended these years or in recent years, more than half belong to Belgrade University, and only 10% belongs to private universities. Ten years ago, the number of protected PhDs a year, all in total, at all universities was just this 200 and something that belonged to private universities. It means that there's been a general fall in the criteria that I hope it will be difficult for it to control any national accreditation body or commission. It has to change people's minds, and they have to do social relations, so knowledge brings work, not having a diploma. That knowledge and diplomacy in the package provide opportunities for employment and progress, not just a diploma. Thank you. I hope I didn't go too far, 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7795	Thank you. Next up, she's a colleague of Milica Dacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7796	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, respected representatives of the government, pay attention to education in general, and in the context of the topic we are discussing today high education is the highest priority of the SNS, and I hope all well-intentioned people in Serbia as well. Wise people say knowledge is power. Knowledge is the basic resource of economic and other development, and education with which the inextricably linked knowledge of the most powerful weapon, which can be used to change the world for the better. Today, as part of the debate on a completely new legal act, the draft law on student organisation has been defined, therefore, forms of student organisation, in terms of representative bodies involving student conferences and student parliaments, as well as student organisations. As a good solution to these draft laws, i.e. the proposal for a law on student organisation, I would grant the authority of student conferences so that they can initiate the adoption and amendment of the rules concerning the improvement of higher education in Serbia, but also give an opinion on the provisions of the draft laws and other rules concerning higher education, which is another aspect of the participation of young people in making decisions that concern them. Quality and accessible education is the goal pursued by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and therefore I am glad that this law also recognises student organisations with disabilities. In addition to the adoption of such legal acts that should improve our education, it is very important that in the coming period work will also be done on the construction and reconstruction of about 15 universities in Serbia, which will contribute overall to improving the conditions of study. As a person coming from the interior, I am very glad that there is a continuation of the trend of seeing the state of higher education and in those centres that are not university, or which do not belong only to Belgrade. In that sense, I am pleased that several buildings of the university are entering this project, which are located inside which they will either get a new building or be reconstructed or upgraded. Modern education involves not only functional literacy or encyclopaedic knowledge. It also implies the development of the creative potential of individuals, the acquisition of practical and applied knowledge. In this regard, it is very important that Serbia recognised the importance of dual education, included it first in its secondary education system, and since October of this year, dual education will also be brought to life at higher education institutions. And to me as someone who comes from Cačka, I'm glad that besides high schools where this model is already being applied, and our Faculty of Technical Sciences will start applying a dual education model, through an educational profile, clothing engineering and design, and an IT programme of studies. So, what was announced in 2015 by President Vukic, then as prime minister we will try to do, today it has largely come to life and 900 companies in Serbia are included in the dual education system, and 6000 high school students have already gone through this system. The new technologies certainly move the borders of education and are included at all levels of education, and have proved particularly necessary at the time of the pandemic, when digitisation has enabled the implementation of teaching for founding and high school students, of which in the given situation it has proved possible and should be reminded that, of course, this assembly has adopted an agreement allowing the introduction of a wide-ranging internet into over 600 settlements for about 90,000 households, but the greatest benefit of this decision will be from students and students. It is precisely the paradigm of success, which we had the opportunity to hear yesterday in the historic address of President Aleksandr Vukic, in this high house, and as regards Serbia's success in the inflow of foreign investment, economic reforms and because of the fact that in the last two years we have not had an outflow of people, as it has been for the past 30 years. On the other hand, yesterday's topic, a report on the course of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina and the situation at KIM, once again showed the importance of the initiative that textbooks from history, geography, and Serbian language, the press of states, because by clouding history and facts, we only leave the way for future generations to make the same mistakes. So Serbia continues to take big steps towards a knowledge-based society of innovation, the creation of scientific and technological parks, the construction of the Institute of Artificial Intelligence, the development of high-tech technologies and particular investment in young staff scholarships and the creation of conditions for young people in our country to remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7797	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7798	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, may I have your attention? I was honored today to meet a beautiful woman who gave me several books, including a book of poetry in which I found wonderful verses. Poetry is something we can say is the ultimate range of human creation. Poetry is something that lifts us up into the heavens, which brings us down to the depths of the earth. I will now ask you to listen to the verses, do not be afraid briefly, which she wrote in one of her letters. He says: “I love the giants of Russian steppes behind whose letters dance forever and where death worships” It is called Nada Kukolić, and I will read it to you once more because this should be remembered “I love the giants of Russian steppes behind whose letters dance forever and which death forever worships. ” By listening to the debate of good lawyers, and the right to tell you I never loved it as a science, I don't understand myself right and I admit that I don't understand myself, and I don't understand much about them, because they can do it anyway. We're applying that law somewhere, we're not applying it. As for this election in the management or management bodies or whatever you want, for people who have completed their working life in 65 years and who have been extended working age for two years, and my colleague Bandjur is not sure if he's a lawyer, but he's discussed a lot of it, he hasn't just said one fact. They don't all have the right to extend to them for two years. Extraordinary experts in charge of the higher-school facility, whose students are extremely satisfied, have the opportunity to extend to them for another two years. Now, what's Serbia doing? Someone mentioned Gash Knezevic. Gassa Knezevic is a minister who was not my will. How can I be happy when I was hired by a professor in 2000 because I was a member of the red-and-black coalition, and I guess I got back together with Dacic and the Socialists, and we were together in the government and, like, they were retrograde forces, they fired me, they kicked me out of college, and Gasha was a minister at the time. But I want to say something else. I resent that Bologna, too, because with Bologna, we were dragged into a story that allowed the destruction of our current very high-quality education system. Now I say to this Gashi the Prince, Minister, with this Bologna, you have destroyed us. He says -- what everyone was chasing like, saw a frog ducking, so she raised her leg, the Bologna will only be a few years from now. But we Serbs love it, let's run as fast as you can to be more Catholic than the Pope. And everything we do, we do at our own expense. Here, I've heard from my colleagues a few times today, and I'll try to be brief. I have heard from our colleagues – these laws are a alignment with EU regulations, with this, we are harmonising this. Guys, what are we harmonizing? What do I care about the EU? I don't care about their laws. Minister, you are making such laws that will raise education, which will be in the interest of Serbian citizens in the interest of youth, in the interest of students. The European Union and these others take care of their system. Well, they didn't all run into that bologna. Bologna only brought big money, much bigger than they had been through education until then. The normal quality of education has collapsed. My colleagues mention PhDs, diplomas and miracles, we don't need to talk about it, we all know that. I don't think it's a very good solution to this for those people who've been extended to two years, and our boss says, he's a lawyer and he knows it well, they have all the rights as well as others, except they're on a certain level, and these are on indefinite terms. Well, if they have every right to be elected by the deans and the presidents of the academy and the rectors, whatever you want. When there was an interpretation of this Law in the congregation I answered and then I said – I do not agree that these people in the Enlightenment deny it. If we could allow it, I won't speak names, you'll all know who I'm talking about, if we could allow a person who turned 65 to be director of Television to continue, and he's not an exceptional expert, after all, and we didn't complain about him, and the opposition and the citizens, and why would we deny that right to professors? Why don't they have a right if they're good managers, if they know how to run companies, so why don't you be a dean? Why don't you be a rector? Who's in the interest of not being? Only one who doesn't want a good Serbian education. Because, colleagues Bandur, Ruzic, Martinovic, I did not suck our knowledge out of the finger. No, we were taught by our teachers, teachers, teachers, mentors at our colleges. So, everything we learned here in the hall, that baker over there, the football player, any citizen, any child, we learned from these people, from teachers, teachers, teachers, and instead of being grateful for giving us those skills and passing on those skills to new generations, we don't now say generously – what, 45 years old? We don't need it. There's a fairy tale that tells us about how the emperor ordered all the old men to kill each other in the country, so this girl hid her father in some cave. Well, when the hard times came, when it took wisdom, if it hadn't been for that old man whose daughter hid in the cave, the empire would have failed. Guys, that's what we do to ourselves. We need to keep those smart people, capable, who know, to be a professor by the age of 80 the way he is in the world, to be that good doctor after 65 years a good doctor. One of the doctors who showed up in the cabin, so he was nice, and then they attacked him, he retired, and I met thirty, maybe 50 people who suffer because he's gone, because he's a very good child's doctor, and I guess now he's gone private, there's a lot more to be paid. That's what we have to take care of. Mr. Minister, you have a lot of trouble at this job of yours. It is not easy being a minister of education in Serbia. It is an area that we have greatly underestimated, and education, health and culture are pillars of a country. Let your team take a little account to preserve the Cyrillic, our letter, to preserve our language, to preserve our culture. We do everything in favor of our damage. It almost passed some law where he ruined us with it further. A writer or a pussy, this or that. We don't need that. Guys, we have a lot of other problems to solve. Let Europe get her out there, make her do it any way she likes. Prom, same big problem. I don't want to interfere with you in RS, but it's an inherited problem, etc. Why would children go to that prom after eight years or not? If he's shown constant knowledge throughout the entire schooling and he's achieved outstanding, good success, he's got all fives or fours, it doesn't matter, that we're harassing him in the end to still pass that graduation, that he's stressed out, that every year someone stole the tests, someone this, something like that. Let's see that. Second thing, senior students. I was the only one of the MPs from this majority who last time it was on the agenda supported the students, they were all against it, and I asked them to be allowed to study after death. Why? We extend them every year or every other year, and this year I guess they'll come with a request to extend it. Once we say, let them study as long as they want. They pay for their books, they pay for exams, they pay for everything, they're not free there. Let them study as much as they want. Most of them, say 50%, will never finish college, but they won't even come here in front of the Assembly to complain, to beg the minister, to call on us professors or, I don't know, MPs to allow them to continue. And, one more thing, everyone says these laws haven't worked since 2000. It wasn't even good for Stip Shuvar or anything, but I want to say something else. Today, Martinovic ruined what I was about to say, but Martinovic is an exception. It doesn't matter, I won't. Statistically, it doesn't matter much. Since 2000, whenever there's a law that we're about to say -- it's no good, tomorrow someone else will come and say -- there were some advances, they've passed laws, it's no good. In this room, whenever I look at that screen there, it says, "Professor, Doctor, Master." How many of us are... Here, my colleague Bandjur is in college. A colleague, Martinović, is a professor at the university. Well, as many of us as professors have stood up to say, I don't agree, that law is wrong, people, it's not good, don't do that, but we shut up like little babies, but the baby cries when she's hungry, and then we don't feel good. Well, we're the ones who pass these laws. We should say, Minister... Martin said this nicely, although I disagree with this solution, but he got up nicely and said – Minister, it's wrong, it needs to be fixed. That's how every one of us should behave. As far as I'm concerned, this law isn't right, but these people should also be allowed to be in management places, colleges, high schools, academys, what do they call it? And, where one big mistake was made, and it was made after October 5th -- we didn't have one system where the directors, the deans, elected colleges, or high schools and so on, but we had the Management Board, which Odalović well knows, the Management Board in which most of the founder and chairman of the Management Board had. It's called the Council today, and it was from the founding party. We've now let the colleges have the right to propose from their ranks to choose the director, the dean and so on, but we've also given them in these governing bodies to have most and now the state is giving money, the state of the real building, everything, everything is given by the state, and someone is fifth, the second decides on that money, and he manages it. It's not working, people, that's it. I also spoke to Sarčević while he was minister that it should be changed. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, that's not true. That's not true. We need to bring about the normality of the management situation and these directors, the presidents, or, as they are called, the deans to carry out what the Management Board tells them, not the school director to come and tell the Management Board, come on, make a decision to award us 50,000 euros as a reward. Well, you can't do that. Now, these are the things, Minister, which you need to take a look at. Look at what Martinovic said, and see if you can find some solution that's not really his, and it's not yours either, because I don't agree with either, or with the other, but listen to me, so do it like that. Thank you very much. I've been a little boring and busy, but next time I'll be shorter.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7799	Thank you. Next on the list is counterpart Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7800	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have two very important legal solutions ahead of us, and it concerns higher education in Serbia. Before I turn to these two legal solutions ahead of us, I need to point to some statistics. Although it seems to us that everyone goes to school as basic education is mandatory under the law, statistics say that there are now over 850,000 adults in Serbia who have not completed their primary education. We have about 2% of citizens, and every fifth person in Serbia doesn't have a high school diploma. When I go like this, we come up with data that highly educated in Serbia is about 10%, and that's official data according to the 2011 census, although we have the subject's feeling that people who study and attend higher education have a lot more. As I said, these are the 2011 data from the official census, and I hope next year the census points to some better data. The ministry assisted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done a lot of work on this matter and we have had the opportunity to hear in the opening statements on the strategies, but a great deal is ahead of you. We must all work together to correct these defeating statistics, because investment in education is, in fact, investment in the future, in who will run the country tomorrow, who will succeed you in the ministerial chair, but who will treat us tomorrow. The bill relating to student organisation is very important because, unfortunately, in the previous period, there has been abuse in student organisations, and student organisations play a very important role in one society. On the one hand, they must represent students' interests and on the other hand find compromise solutions both with the university and with the university, but also with the ministry. We have heard that amendments to the Higher Education Act, which has been in force since 2017, establish appropriate legal frameworks and the necessary conditions for the national accreditation body to fully meet European standards and quality assurance guidelines in higher education. When it comes to accreditation of higher education institutions, I can't help but look back at a lot of private and secondary institutions. As a student of Belgrade University, I know what it means to study and get a higher education at Belgrade University and 240 ESPB points. The Belgrade University is now making progress on the Shanghai list in many areas, but the Shanghai List includes both Novosadski and Niski University, which is certainly commendable. Perhaps it is my subjective feeling that certain higher education institutions may have little and no respect for education in Serbia, and it is really necessary to deal more closely with the issue of school programmes conducted at these institutions in the coming period. During the former tycoon regime, education in Serbia was in desperate shape, starting with the fact that the Belgrade University at one point was not on the Shanghai list, until a number of private universities that looked more like sharing diplomas were opened during their government, just as they did, rather than providing knowledge to future academic citizens of the country. Also, we remember a series of strikes from educators, people who are the bearers of this society. They were at the edge of this society, both materially and socially. School infrastructure was desperate. They tried to twist the mockery recently when our colleague Luka Kebar presented the fact that schools in Serbia did not have functional toilets and many schools had neither normal toilets nor windows, were not set up for decades, had no normal tables, had no basic resources to work with, and they had their own private accounts according to Mauritius, Hong Kong, where they stored money that was unfeelingly taken from the people and were not interested in education, science, or culture. They weren't interested in Serbia. All they cared about was personal interest and wealth on the back of the people. We can't let these political monsters ever return to the political scene again. Today, Serbia is investing in education and science. The prerequisite of a developed society is an educated people, and it's a lot of work ahead of you, but also before us. We've introduced dual education. We showed the willingness and flexibility of our education and the school system during the course of the pandemic of the coronary virus. Our students were given education. Our education is accompanied by digitisation in Serbia, so today we have electronic journals, online lectures and seminars, and we are trying to make sure that every elementary school in Serbia has a digital interactive board. I am proud to say that the Belgrade City Assembly has adopted the Decision that every student from first to fourth grade will receive a tablet of a device with access to the Internet and textbooks in the electronic version. Schools in Serbia are being renewed and are investing in education infrastructure. It's an educational system that we seek and how we want it to be. As I said, we must not let monsters like Djilas, Jeremic, Tepic ever return to the political scene of Serbia precisely because of our children and their education. As an academic citizen of this country and as a national MP, it is an honor to always discuss and vote in favour of education laws. I know what the priority is to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to President Alexander Vukic, he is just investing in education, and it is doubtless a lot of work is ahead of you in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7801	Thank you. The next is MP Djordje Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7802	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two laws before us today - amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education and a brand-new law on November's organisation. At the very beginning, I would like to, and I would like to be encouraged by the speech of Professor Alexander Martinović, the president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, and given that I will not be there next week, that I will also formally support amendments that will pass the committee and be part of the law tomorrow, therefore, to support the proposal to exclude discrimination against people who, after 65 years, so, professors, end this working age and cannot be elected to the authorities of these universities. So very, very important. As far as the law itself is concerned, the support for these three continents that I have observed as I have analysed this law, therefore, three segments on the formation of a council, i.e. the National Council, so the transfer of power from the Government to the National Assembly, is the moment at which the National Assembly is given a larger framework and width in the selection of 17 members of the National Council, six members from the ranks of prominent regular professors, two members from the ranks of professional studies, seven members from the ranks of top experts and two members on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. The second segment that I have also noticed here and which is very important, I suppose, for the theological colleges, which refers to as a proposal that, in addition to the general conditions, higher education institutions can prescribe an additional obligation that, with the consent of the church and other religious institutions, teachers choose to call the professors of these universities, as students could attend, in the field of theology, those higher education institutions can attend. The third segment that is important for students, which is what has become a practice since 2005, let's say, but with one big difference that we are now in June, as my colleague Vladica said, already in June we are making a decision to extend the deadline for the completion of the study. It is very important that these students, when they are followed by these last deadlines there somewhere before September, October, to devote themselves to the test deadline, not to some protest on the extension of those deadlines. It's important how we've been through the past and this year as far as the epidemiological situation is concerned. Serbia has shown that it can cope with the crown, that we have reacted responsibly and resolutely and with the vaccine policy stopped and prevented any scenario such as those that occurred in much stronger and more developed countries of Europe from happening in Serbia, a policy of vaccines that saved lives, saved the health of our citizens, a policy that allowed the further development of the economy, which proved at the beginning of this year that we ended in 2020 with the growth of GDP in the high first place, a gold medal for the growth of gross domestic product. I think that this law, but also the law that we are discussing here for the first time, which is the law on November's organisation, is very important, because in this way on the road through EU accession, we are harmonising our legislation with the EU. This second law, the law on November's organisation, will only briefly have a certain need to define certain items of the November organisation through the legislative framework. We had something under the Higher Education Act. This is the first time since 2005 such a law or an idea has entered the assembly procedure and it is very good in the context of the November organization. So the very important segments are the November representative bodies and students' organizations that are defined by law. As for the student representative bodies, therefore, the November conferences and their powers through 11 points, as well as the November Parliament, which should otherwise represent and protect the rights of students and interests of all students, are clearly defined in the law, the work is public in both organisations, and is normally the task of the higher education institution to provide them with space, financial resources and the necessary conditions for the student parliament to work. And the student parliament has been defined, so the powers have been defined through 14 points, as well as the election, the participation of students and members, the way of funding and a completely new formation of the national association of student organisations to obtain the SKONUS opinion for further action. Therefore, the organisation and work of the National Council shall be governed by the statute and everything else that is to be completed, therefore, supervision, criminal provisions and funding are defined by this law. I've been going through a proposal for this new law, and I have to say, I've been looking for where you might be or where I might be able to, and now you're going to feel probably irony in further exposure, where I could get some other organizations, and I'm not thinking about student organisations, I'm just thinking about political ones, I can participate, under the circumstances, in the work of the Belgrade University Rectorate. When I say this, and I call for 2019, when Gilas' students from "One of the Five Million" literally usurped the Belgrade University's Rectorate and thus forced the Rectorate to make an exclusive political decision, which is now being annulled by the Administrative Court by a decision on the doctorate of Sinisha Malo. So, a political decision that has been in the process for two years now that the Ph.D. is a plagiarist, the Administrative Court has overturned the verdict. As the president of the parliamentary club said - justice is slow but affordable. I think Valentina Rekovic, otherwise the leader of "One of the Five Million" probably ate as far as this decision is concerned, but I think she's satisfied with the current engagement, because, you know, when they use you as a thrown cloth, you no longer have any legitimacy among students, not among citizens, simply, at that moment, because you have fulfilled the expectations of Dragan Gilas, you become part of his organization. So, like worn jewelry, she drowned in Gilasov's SAA, and not only she and not only that youth from the "One of the Five Million" association, but as a model, it was also depicted in the recent action of those of the former regimes, who managed to adopt, and again under the precepts of the quote, and it appears to be a modus operandi, independent candidates of the local communities in the Municipality of Secanj, who joined the Foreigners of Freedom and Justice Dragan Gilas. So, Dragan Gilas goes to the polls, as he went to the previous elections via "One of the Five Million", so he went to these elections and when the local communities were, through the association, through to God's independent candidates, so that at some point when they get some support from the people, they would then join Gilas's organisation. So, like a wolf in lamb skin, he goes to the election. The essence of my presentation today, and I wanted to refer specifically to the events in Palilula, the Belgrade municipality, the territorialally largest, because when we talk about plagiarism, plagiarism and everything you take to copy, and these are ideas and plans and programs when you don't have them, you take the plans and programs of people who have been leading the country forward for the last few years, and since you're in the deficit as far as the plan and the programs are concerned, and the ideas themselves, then you come into a situation to steal them, and to plagiarize them. How was the story? First, the deputy mayor announced that high school would be built on the left bank of the Danube in May of this year, so that some 15 days later, those from Vuk Jeremic's evening school would announce that they were building a high school or writing some petition for the construction of a high school on the left bank of the Danube, and then a few days ago, to catch up with them probably, and this Gilas team - Freedom and Justice parties from Belgrade wrote a petition in Borca for the construction of a gymnasium on the left bank of the Danube. So, the complete plagiarism of ideas, because they don't have ideas and Nikola Tesla said -- I'm not sorry they stole my ideas, I'm sorry they didn't have theirs. And that's how they run their politics, and Marko Stoičić, otherwise the city's main urbanist, came out two days ago and announced the construction of a university, building two high schools on the left bank of the Danube, so I just need to see how and how this will plagiarize in the period ahead of us. The very important are the laws that we bring and this new on student organisation and the Law on Higher Education, and I would like to stress especially, and I would not want to take more time because of the other colleagues, citizens on the left bank of the Danube should know, in Palila general, the city of Belgrade, in Serbia, that we will build the secondary schools that we have announced, as we have built scientific and technological parks throughout Serbia, that we will build a college on the left bank of the Danube, as we have built on dozens and secondary schools and primary schools and universities, as we have built the House of Health in Borca which we have announced over the past few years, and their idea of theft will always remain at that level, and we will, like the reconstructed Fifth Belgrade High School, advance educational system in Palilla, Belgrade. I'm extremely proud of this and I look forward to this kind of project because we're finally going to show people who used to rule, were part of the government and didn't do anything except for their own pockets. That's what citizens know very well, and everyone knows it, knows what career thief Dragan Gilas is, we all know from here, from Serbia to Mauritius, it's clear to everyone. We are a state-run party, and I think of SNS, Aleksandar Vukic is a statesman, we are following President Vukic's policy and I hope that in the next period we will show that in a far better, faster time than they have ever done before, and before 2012, we will improve our education system, as we have improved our health system and raise Serbia by the scale as far as this sector is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7803	I thank Mr. Todorovic. The next MP is Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7804	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Hardysic. Dear Ministers, Mr. Ruzic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had one of the most important discussions here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia yesterday. The debate on the course of dialogue and everything that awaits us in the near future regarding the preservation of our territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, and in that debate yesterday, we had a masteral presentation of the President, Alexander Vukic, and the head of our parliamentary club, Professor Alexander Martinovic, who in just a few dozen minutes presented what SNS is planning to do and how it thinks he is fighting for his territory, for his people, for his country, given the fact that our policy is primarily economic empowerment, that our policy is, and all that we are going to attract as much as possible, to speed up the demographic characteristics of our country, to preserve and speed up the birth, but also to keep young people in our country through the creation of the best possible business environment, through which we will attract as many foreign direct investment, domestic investment, domestic enterprise and private enterprise. Of course one of the pillars of our policy and what may well determine our fight for KIM, what President Aleksandar Vukic was talking about yesterday, the preservation of our university, and I think showing the highest form of patriotism is what is currently happening in Kosovo Mitrovica and in the north of KIM. It's the construction of this so-called. soft infrastructure, it's the construction of a university, so the Kosovo Mitrovica University building, where a recession, economic college, law school will be held. So, it will be a place, a university, a university, where our young people will be educated in KIM, which, with everything we provide on the agenda of economy, development, entrepreneurship, development of economy, will remain in KIM and thus show that the state of Serbia in KIM exists. We as SNS continue and look to what the advances did at the end of the 19th century with Stojan Novakovic, who also as Prime Minister of the then government, as the minister of education, perhaps the greatest focus of his time, energy and everything he knew along with his colleagues from the then government invested in education and thus protected the interests of the Serb people in Macedonia, the interests of the Serb people in KIM, wanting to raise the level through the development of education, through reforms in the education process, the capacity of the Serbian Corps in the territory of the then Kingdom of Serbia and to preserve the Serbian Corps and to preserve everything that represented the potential of our people at that time. And it should be clear to everyone that from the empty words, from the Serbs here in the cafes on Kosovo Street or anywhere in Belgrade, there is nothing in any other city in central Serbia. President Vukic had the strength to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the fight was being fought and how and how the Republic of Serbia remains in KIM territory and how we will fight. We're fighting diplomatic means. We're fighting through investment right into education. We fight through investment in our university, in young people, in economic capacity, since statistics don't work out for us. We heard one defeating information that only 95,000 Serbs live on KIM. In the next period, we have to work hard and we have to find and implement all possible instruments to keep these people there and find a way for those who have fled to central Serbia to return there. Only in this way will we give President Aleksandr Vukic the opportunity to continue fighting for the interests of the legitimate interests of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of KIM. I think it is the greatest kind of patriotism when we can see that "Sun Valley" settlement where several hundred apartments will be built, when we see that a new university will be built, when we see that Serbia will invest in infrastructure, in roads on KIM territory, that we will invest in a highway that will connect us with KIM so that we can sell more and more goods and services, so that we can now sell 500 million dollars as an export arrangement, double what we export to that territory, regardless of who we sell to, whether we sell to Serbs or Albanians. We are today a nation nation, especially the government and this ruling majority that we represent here in the SNS-led parliament, showed that we are ready for dialogue with everyone, that we are ready to trade and that, for the sake of our economic development and improvement of each of our citizens, we do everything, we cooperate with everyone, in order to raise the economic, social and ultimately educational and technological capacity of the Republic of Serbia. It's not easy for you, Mr. Ruzic, just that you're also the minister in charge of higher education. A heavy burden, hard work is on your shoulders and what is very important, and what will have to determine your portfolio's work in the next period is what stands and what is the part of your work, in terms of technological development, regarding the science and development of scientific capacities and capacities of scientific institutes, which, of course, will, and the development of all those reforms that you started at the beginning of your mandate, contribute to having even better results than today, and today is the result, as the president said yesterday, that in the first five months Serbia has this year 1.5 billion euros foreign direct investment. In these companies, in these factories, because the fourth industrial revolution has already arrived in Serbia, we need to work on the most educated and highly qualified young people who will graduate from colleges, vocational schools and universities in the Republic of Serbia and, of course, we need to ensure that our young people are able in both Kosovo and Metohija primarily. That is why the President keeps talking about stability. What I'm trying to say is that that's not the word, that it's very important. If there is no stability here in central Serbia, if there is no stability in Kosovo and Metohija there is no way that these young people who will finish Pristina University somewhere tomorrow start their job peacefully and make the best use of their school, their college, their education, their knowledge of foreign languages and their openness to co-operate with everyone in order to have better results on the business plan. Also, I would like to say how much technological development has helped us speak and the fact that the digitalisation process in the Republic of Serbia, where in the past term we have some opposition MPs and now leaders, so-called. The boycott opposition and the yellow regime, they laughed at us here in the face, they said -- well, Serbia has no sewers in the 21st century, you want to conduct digitization. This leadership, this vision that, despite all this, the hard infrastructure is being strengthened, but that stronger and soft infrastructure through the development of digitisation has led to this country and this government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic saving hundreds of thousands of human lives, because we may have the best organized vaccination throughout Europe and besides, because of the vision of our leadership and the clear strategic goal we want to achieve have the biggest economic growth in all of Europe. Of course, many countries that are more developed than Serbia, many countries that have been ahead of Serbia to bother them, to be bothered that Serbia, as they say, has raised its head above our neighbours who unfortunately do not fit us, are experiencing a decline in their business activities and do not know what they will do with their economies and percentages and unemployment rates in their countries. However, instead of looking up to Serbia, instead of learning from Serbia, as we have learned from many other countries and applied good experiences, and then it is shown today that this Vucic's foreign policy, which is based on both Beijing and Moscow and working with Washington and working with Berlin and Brussels and Paris, gives results, because of all of us taking the best, we have made strategic partnerships with everyone. The French are building the subway, the French have taken over Nicola Tesla Airport, their company, we're strategic partners with the French after 100 and a few years. The first leader to recognize that it is very important for our country to restore our old allies and good economic and political ties to France. About China and Russia, of course, other EU countries, especially Germany, not to mention since German companies employ more than 70,000 people in our country. To bring an end to my exposure by wanting to rely on the discussion of counterpart Aleksandr Martinovic, who spoke about these members of the law concerning the age of people themselves, who will be able or will not be members of the bodies of highly educated institutions. That's where we'll probably have a debate. You are one man of liberal implementation and I am sure that you will be open to talking about such ideas and making the best possible solutions, but I would ask one other question, especially from this aspect when we talk about this discrimination by age because we are of course concerned with respect and promotion of human, minority rights, we are dealing with gender equality. As Professor Martinovic said, we are very open as most, and we have a very liberal approach to everyone who thinks that they should be called one way or another that we should afford it and here we show in general that we are one of the most liberal states in all of Europe. Look only when it comes to gender equality how many women there are and sits in this House, and how many are in the US Congress, how many are in the Bundestag, how many are in the French Parliament and the Senate, and of course there are enough results. I'd just ask a question, because I've never known why in the first place when it comes to university professors and professors, especially regular teachers, why there are even restrictions when it comes to age. I'll give you an example, Your Honor. You have one Habermas. He was born in 1929. Thank God, he's still alive today. He's 92 years old. He teaches in various universities around the world, of course from Germany to the West Coast in the United States and imagine someone saying -- well, you know, Habermas is 65 years old, or 68 or 70 years old, he couldn't teach. Of course, it has nothing to do with you because that restriction was introduced long, long before you became a minister in this government, but I'm telling you how much I think we're fundamentally wrong because it seems that only in this job, at the university that should actually be a wastelander and a bastion of liberalism, that anyone who deserves it, that anyone who is vital and can work, that it can be provided with it. It can mean being a MP, choosing and elected, of course, everyone regardless of the age. He can do any other job, but he can't be a university professor. I'm talking to you from one aspect that I really think is important, from the point of mentoring because Habermas had Adorn, and then he had Jeremy Shapira and Thomas McCarthy and Klaus Ofe, and who's going to have some young professor of ours, a professor who's just got a doctorate at university, or he's become a scientific associate at some science institute in our house, who's going to have as a mentor and someone who's going to lead him through his career and make him an even better philosopher, an even better mathematician, an even better lawyer, an even better economist? I will end by telling you that the Federal Republic of Germany, the strongest economic power after the United States of Europe, of course, and one of the strongest in the world, has about 9,000 people who are from politics, former ministers, directors of state major companies, experts that it sends to the whole world and countries with whom it has partner relations to help those countries, of course, to spread its soft power in certain countries. So, for example, Germany has a lot of companies here in Serbia, Hungary, Romania, a lot of investment, a lot of investment. So Germany never gave up these people. So I'm telling you, I know it's not easy to change, I'm giving up like some kind of appeal and ideas, thinking initiatives, since I think we're very easy to give up people who are 65 and over, we're making them retire. Here, I'll give you an example. Donald Trump became president of the United States at the age of 71 and led a great country of 350 million inhabitants. Looks like he's gonna run it again after the next election, with his own, let's say how long he's got when the next election's in 2024. I just want you to think about it. Of course, we can support all of this. Thank you for your commitment and for your desire to continue with reforms in the higher education sector, but also for all those sectors that represent your portfolio, and we will try to find together with you as a parliamentary majority the best possible solutions in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in the interests of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7805	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. He has the word Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7806	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. From what I understand, you mentioned Beyden or Tramp, since Biden, 78, became president of the same state. Of course, it's a little joke, but it's a company. I want, indeed, given this liberal spirit that's being spent on this house this afternoon. I agree that everyone has a legitimate right to propose what they think is both credible and meaningful. I don't think there's just one thing that stands to be easy to give up these people. So they all have the right to extend their work at higher education institutions on two occasions each two years. They have the opportunity to be emeritus for life, like Habermans or any other, of course some values are incomparable in that segment. Of course, I am also against discrimination personally, but I am also in favour of reputations and credibility and this home. So we heard different proposals, different reflections from one of the parliamentary groups, so MPs from that parliamentary group. You are your own, therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure and by law and by the Constitution to define yourselves on amendments after the Government has given its position under these amendments. As far as limitations or limitations are concerned, I think we've all been involved in this together over the past few years, so if there are any healthy initiatives in that sense, I don't mind that maybe we're having a public hearing, that you're initiating it, so let's see if it's meaningful and whether it's necessary. If it is, we are certainly open to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7807	Thank you. There's a word from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7808	I would like to thank the chairman, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We had opportunities in the previous period to hear extremely high-quality discussions of my distinguished fellow Members of Parliament on two draft laws, so I will try to sum up what these proposals are. When we talk about the Law on Higher Education, that is, amendments and additions, as we could hear, an absolute confirmation that we are as a country on our way to the EU and that we are doing maximum work on harmonisation when it comes to these European standards. It is also true when it comes to accreditation of higher education institutions, because we are absolutely working on further harmonisation of these changes and additions, when it comes to European standards and the work of our national accreditation body and we are working to improve this process. What my esteemed colleague, Djordje Todorovic, said we would extend, or decide that students who started their studies by the period of 2005, when it was in the old programme, could finish them. What is proud of me is that our higher education institutions in co-operation with the state already have excellent initiatives, such as the Faculty of Economics in Nis, which successfully implemented the previous "end" programme, where a large number of students who have enrolled those studies under the old programme have already succeeded, although they are already working, to bring the university to an end and to come to a very important degree that confirms their knowledge, which they are already very successful in practice. Also, the very important thing is about student organisation, that is, this law, since previous legislative solutions have given certain solutions that could not be successfully implemented, so that this law solves the difficulties that existed when it comes to the work of the student parliament and the student organisations. What is very important is that the law itself was created on the basis of an example of the good practice of countries in the region, i.e. the ways these student organisations in the region were doing, so that it is also in line with these European standards. It is very important to say that the very structure of student organisations, the way they are financed, the way they function, and what is very important is that students are fully involved in the work of higher education institutions themselves, i.e. the possibility of selecting a body that will manage the colleges themselves. What is very important to say is that unlike some period of the former regime, when education was not important, we clearly see that in the period from 2012 and when Alexander Vukic came to the head, it is that education is given a great primate and importance, that it is working towards establishing closer cooperation between the economy and the education system, because we are actually complementing one another, or we are further developing our education system in line with the needs of our economic system, which we are seeing very much, so thank God, we passed that period when we had investments that are working intensive. We are slowly moving into a knowledge-based period of economic development, i.e. where foreign investors come to Serbia to use the knowledge of our people to use this knowledge to further develop their products and services and thus make a profit. What is very important is that domestic employers are also stimulated to employ our young academics, and as we have had the opportunity to hear, we have become a country where academic citizens return from abroad, because they have established that there are adequate conditions in Serbia that this knowledge they have acquired abroad can also cash in. There they can form their families, stay to live and work, because frankly, nowhere is more beautiful than at home. As you have heard, we have built a large number of scientific and technological parks, but what is very important to me is that we work on the development of this system of colleges, universities because Serbia is not a circle of "twos", such as members of the former regime wanted to represent, that is, in their minds, Serbia was actually just a circle of "twos". No, Serbia is not a circle of "two", so today you have universities that are opening in other Serbian cities, where they are not university headquarters. I am very proud as Kruševljanin, as a person who comes from the city of Knez Lazar, who will mark 650 years of its founding on Vidovdan, that the Faculty of Agriculture in Kruševec, who is at the University of Nisko this year is entering the fourth generation of his students and I can freely say that they are students and how satisfied and the conditions in which it is being done, as the university progresses. We also received new additional buildings today where the university library will be located, where there will be offices for more professorial staff to be hired, but there is no stopping with the vision. We continue to realise what is important Kruševljanin, Mr. Bratislav Gasic started in 2012, when he became mayor, to come to Kruševac colleges that are businesses, if necessary, by the employer, so I am sure that in the next period we will also be able to form the Faculty of Political Sciences in Kruševec, at the University of Niško. This is what is very important to point out, Kruševac as a city is known for the Kruševac Theatre, we hope to get a degree in art and that this segment of education at the University of Niška will be complemented. This is just one example when we talk about how education is further developed. I am very pleased to hear from my colleagues that colleges are also taking initiatives to create new master programs, which will be removed from the college headquarters. In this way, we are working in the right sense on the even development of Serbia. So, Serbia, as I say, is not a circle of "two", Serbia is both Kruševac and Kralje and Knic and Raška and Leskovac and Medvedja and Bujanovac. We had a chance to hear in yesterday's discussion that nothing was done in that area. Well, it's the state of Serbia that brought colleges, you have a department there, if I'm not mistaken, of the Faculty of Economics of Subotica, which allowed these people to school, to acquire the necessary knowledge, and that with that knowledge they can continue to be employed. What's very important is that it's not just about mere education and that it's not our education system, as yellow tycoons like to say, some business. Here, today I had a very constructive and interesting meeting with my colleagues from the Iranian Parliament Group of Friendships, who said that a large number of young people from Iran want to come to Serbia to study, and study medicine, dentistry, precisely because they have confirmed that the quality of knowledge they receive at Belgrade University is something that is highly appreciated. What's interesting is what he said to me is that if we had developed programs that would be in English, that an even greater number of foreign students would come. Where will you greater confirmation of the high quality of the education system in Serbia than exactly what is said?- I'm sorry. It's not just about land like Iran, we have it from neighboring countries where they come to study with us. I am sure that we continue to develop our education system, that we will succeed, and this is a beautiful idea and initiative at all colleges, at all universities in Serbia to think, since my distinguished colleague Vladimir also talked about the application of digital technology and digitalisation, about distance studies, about the possibility that people who can't physically be there, that knowledge can also be achieved through modern technologies. We had the opportunity to hear the esteemed President Alexander Vukic yesterday, who, as a true leader, spoke openly to Serbian citizens about all the problems and challenges we face. Neither did it around, nor was it in twisted shape like Tadic did, as did Jeremic, who tried to push the problems under the carpet or if by some chance it came out and got rid of it, however it should be resolved, such as the question of recognising the false republic of Kosovo, on which they worked with a heart, to say -- uh, it's good, a big stone fell off our burden. No, President Vukic is ready and we clearly saw this during the previous period, to fight for the interests of Serbian citizens, to fight for the future of young generations, generations and a clear message he sent yesterday, which is that, in addition to all these investments that we've worked on, and the road infrastructure and the rise of new buildings and universities and universities and factories that are coming, again I say, we have now literally examples of the development of knowledge-based economy, to work on the issue of birth. Because everything we do in Serbia is for future generations. If there's no future generation, we're all free. Then, faster and better, the media of yellow tycoons, I won't show the pictures now because I have no intention of advertising them, nor deserve advertising, they say - Vukic sent a message to women: "Breathing, we won't have the workforce for factories". I don't really know how far their madness goes anymore and how they're trying to spin some of the things that we're talking about here in Parliament, we're talking openly to the citizens, and we've clearly seen that it's working on new measures and we've heard President Alexander Vukic propose concrete measures to the government of the Republic of Serbia to encourage, especially in parts that are devastated, in which there are no populations, that this population grows, so that we can make these investments that we do and everything we do realise. So this is another proof that they are not dealing with the problems of the Republic of Serbia, not dealing with the problems of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they are dealing with their own interests. They deal with their own interests, they deal with the problem of how to fill their own pockets, which apparently began and how to empty out how time moves away. Another interesting text I came across. He says, of course, some of their falsely polled citizens from southern Serbia -- don't insult southern Serbia by opening factories. Well, where were Dragan Djilas, Jeremic and other yellow tycoons to help that south of Serbia, to really open new factories? Unlike them, Aleksandar Vukic was coming and there was no district where there was no investment, and we could clearly hear what investments it was. Thanks to these investments, people stayed in those parts, got hope for a better future, and, of course, will continue to work on investments. We heard the example of Vranjska Banja, what great importance it is for the development of the tourism potential of southern Serbia, and of course, the opposition is trying to make the most of it spin and I can only say - shame on them. Shame should be on them, as they know the katan were masters, and as I said in my speech, they didn't even know the katan factory to open in Serbia, but they imported the katans from abroad to tarnish Serbia's factories. It is clear to us whose interests they work for - patting on the shoulder, double whiskey, long cigarettes and, of course, open the door of all foreign embassies and institutions. In any case, it is the citizens who finally say in the elections which policy they support and whose work they support. I don't think there's any dilemma. So it is clear that the policies of people who open factories will be supported, which bring investment, which ensure that young people return to Serbia to live and work here, and that academically educated citizens and the same one who helps young people to school abroad, like in those old times when we were developing Serbia as a state again, that they bring this knowledge to future generations, and not to those who work for their own pockets, who work on how to empty the pockets of citizens and put it on their secret accounts on Mauritius, Hong Kong. We'll see, we'll have a deal soon, and with Singapore, maybe even with the Singaporeans, they've made some deals and they've got secret accounts there. In any case, in voting day and when we discuss amendments to these laws, there is no dilemma that we will support, because all that is good for the future of this country, we will support, as the name of our list says, "Alexander Vukic - To our children". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7809	I thank Mr. Tomic. The next is MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have now on the agenda the laws of the higher education system. The first thing the MP takes to read is the reasons for the law being passed, and among other things it is said that the law is passed to meet European standards and guidelines. I would ask government and ministry representatives not to write any more. The Republic of Serbia has a strategic goal, and this is full EU membership and this is not controversial here. Of the 250 MPs in the National Assembly, none are against the EU. The reasons for law-making are that we make laws in the interest of our citizens and our institutions, not to meet the conditions. Now, we meet the conditions, so much better, but the National Assembly is passing laws primarily in the interest of Serbian citizens, businesses in Serbia and Serbian institutions. Because if you look a little bit better, there are no declarations of compliance with EU regulations, provisions of the agreements relating to the normative content of the SAA rules. There is no deadline for harmonisation of legislation under the provisions of the agreement. The assessment of the fulfilment of the obligations arising from those provisions of the Agreement – no, etc. I think this was too high. Let's get back to the law itself. One of the reasons why the law is passed is because for several years we have been trying to reform our higher education and eliminate all those mistakes, all those failures that have brought down the system of higher education during the former government. Our higher education began rapidly after October 5th to collapse greatly. There was a loss of confidence in higher education institutions, the very control of the work of higher education institutions was very small, we had an expansion of diplomas, and thus we did a bear service primarily for our citizens. We've had expansions and private high school institutions, which I don't mind, I think they should exist, but with that standard as it was during the former regime, they shouldn't exist at all. Fortunately, we had a large number of state-run higher education institutions that preserved their reputation, both domestic and international. All of these laws that we're making right now are directed in that direction, that, when it comes to our higher education institutions, the trust of the domestic and international public as much as possible and that they take that place that they really belong to, above all. I see here a bill of law that goes in that direction. I'm going to talk to you about the law on student organization. You know, I think it's better to regulate the way of student organisations than it was in the previous period, which is that the law only predicted that there are certain student organisations and that a higher education institution should regulate the way of choice, the jurisdiction of student organisations, etc. Unfortunately, we had a very close past, some of my colleagues were already talking about it, and the abuse of student organizations and students. If we look a little closer to our past, it's been nine years since Dragan Gilas lost power and since the former regime was torn from power in democratic elections. Today's high school kid is about 21 or 22, on average. How old was he when Dragan Gilas fell out of power? Twelve, thirteen years old. How old was he when he lived during Gilas's reign? He was probably born on the arrival of DOS to power and lived until he was 12, 13. What does such a young man know about the former regime and how he ruled Serbia? He knows very little. You know, young people are also the best material for cheaters, liars, hohstapplers and criminals, and they are the easiest to seduce and one way to bring them into politics, and they are often unaware of it. I guess on that show, our home movie, it was about that movie, you know -- Comrade Tito said, "Students were right." Now, some Gilas, but not Gilas of the time of Joseph Broz Tito, wants to say: “There, the students were right, ” misusing their very modest life experience. I don't mind if students deal with politics, but I'd like them to deal with politics in political parties, because political parties are also registered, that's why they exist, and that's why they are political parties and they are the bearer of democratic society and order. If they want to go to elections as a group of citizens, I don't mind and go out, but to legislate and find out whose interests they really represent and on behalf of which political parties they really go to elections. We had such opportunities that Gilas, in the very near past, boycotted the elections, while at the same time over some groups of citizens, associations, and even students, tried again on that statement from that series when, like, Comrade Tito said, "Students were right," to achieve some political result in last year's elections. But what got me pretty startled today, and as far as higher education institutions are concerned, I'll explain it a little later, is a statement from the Freedom and Justice Party, which, in my opinion, is a state-of-the-art disgrace. I haven't read anything more rude, more rude, more devious in my life. One highlight of hypocrisy. I will read only one part: "The Party of Freedom and Justice, where President Dragan Gilas is, today said that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic has driven 450,000 citizens out of the country who cannot survive but to leave, and now thinks we should pay for the birth of children for the Linglongs and other factories." It further states: "As he is unable to stop the rivers of people leaving Serbia every month, who are the most fleeing because of the inability to survive from the first to last of the month, poor wages, uncertainty and slave property relations that protected foreign investors have towards our workers, Vukic has panicked," the Free and Justice Party stressed. Now we're getting to high school institutions. A number of academics, and this is even my colleague Marko Atlagic mentioned, academician Dusan Teodorovic, and there are several other university professors, are not some large majority, in the fastest possible way, attacking the policy conducted by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, under the pretext of having a dictatorship in Serbia, that we do not have free and fair elections, that one man decides on everything, that the Assembly does not serve anything, etc. You have to ask the question – and why is the motive of the team, to say to professors, academics, experts to even enter politics? I understand if someone has finished the right, philosophy, some similar college of social direction to deal with politics, it's kind of related, it makes sense, but now explain to me – why are teachers engaged in this way, not all of them, of course, professors who have completed natural sciences? I must say, after all, the former regime has failed to completely destroy Belgrade University, especially colleges that are of natural nature. We kept it in the good part. We've had the expansion of private colleges of social direction, and for nature's directions it's a little different. It's not just a building, it's not just a bench, you need to provide labs that are very expensive, certain instruments, that students have exercises, etc. It is a lot of investment, with some perhaps uncertain outcome of how it will turn out and how much will essentially be earned and how many of these private higher education institutions during DOS looked only at profits, very little knowledge of students who went out. Now, there was something very difficult to find in the Serbian language that would be described, because many professors, still a minority, some professors, including academic Dusan Teodorovic, were engaged in choosing the best students from the university, to follow their work, but not to gain as much knowledge as possible and not to keep them in Serbia, but to sell them to foreign companies for some money and to get our smartest, most skilled and educated citizens out of Serbia during the rule of the former regime, and Dusan Teodorovic and other clicks put money in their pocket. That is why such academics attack everything that is being done in Serbia today and that Serbia is making progress in every respect. It's very difficult to commit a crime, it's very difficult to root it out, but why is it that they're so upset with Alexander Vukic? These young people were mostly leaving because of the financial moment, because imagine the financial moment for a graduate electrical engineering engineer, machinery, mining, traffic direction, etc., if the average earnings in Serbia are 320, 330 euros, as during the rule of Dragan Gilas. That financial moment is very pronounced, it's very big. So, a man asks a question, why do I go to school when I'm going to work at best for 500, 600 or 700 euros and I won't be able to support my family? I won't be able to start my family, I won't have the right to the future. And then academic Dusan Teodorovic could sell them in the white world as cattle and as ordinary slaves. That's why he now attacks Alexander Vukic's policy, because he can no longer export students from Serbia, the finished students when the average earnings in Serbia are 550 euros, with a tendency to increase rather than fall in their time. That is why it is important that we, our higher-school institutions and their work, are promoting through the laws to get as many high-quality completed experts as possible to stay working in Serbia, not to be the slave to which Dragan Djilas, Teodorovic, and similar to him, are being brought abroad. Then, watch out for the peak of this hypocrisy of insolence, foreign investors who come to Serbia are attacking, and that part of the investors, who paid those students to go to Western European countries, which is the same Dragan Djilas, along with Teodorovic, exports. Well, that's why it's the ultimate insolence, hypocrisy, snotty. I have no words to describe a statement like this. It's like this -- 60,000 people run off in one direction a year. I say, I avoid hard words, but this is a lie. Sixty thousand people went one way during his rule, Dragan Gilas. Two hundred forty thousand people left Serbia between 2008 and 2012. What did he do while he was in power in Serbia to keep those 60,000 citizens? We'll go back to what he was doing, but everything just doesn't bring them back to Serbia or keep them in Serbia. The motive is reportedly that Aleksandar Vukic will remain short sleeves in his combinations with investors. Here is another sentence, which is once again the ultimate insolence, according to Dragan Gilas, a mangoof who came to Serbia with 15, 16000 euros and when he lost power has 600m euros. What combination are you talking about, Dragan Gilas? And answer once how did you earn that 600 million euros? By abuse of power or because you were smart? No, because you were a thief, the most common. The sentence spoken by the President of the Republic yesterday in the National Assembly of Ice blood in veins, we will pay and give birth to children if necessary, because otherwise we will not have labour in factories, said the Party of Freedom and Justice. We won't have children in Serbia, it's not labour, we won't have Serbia either. But let's take a look at what happened during their government. One of the motives for having children is the first health care facility in which the firstborn should be given birth, did they build a hospital? They're not either. Also, one of the motives is, and the conditions kids go to school under, did they build a school? They're not either. Also, one of the motives is that college can finish, can they get a job with that college? They were exported by Dragan Gilas. One of the motives for having children is whether a child who finishes school can get a job, all the factories have been shut down. And now he has the right to prescribe his merits to another. According to our people, it is a common cowardly egg, such as Dragan Gilas, one of the most common cowards. The fact that he is a coward is seen as wanting to get out of power, to be introduced into the National Assembly, to be introduced into the government of the Republic of Serbia, and that he has blood in his veins is that the money of Serbian citizens will be returned to them and will not end up in his pockets. Well, that's why Dragan Gilas is not allowed to go to the polls and we're going to beat him and any other parastranalia he's running for because it's one of the most common thieves, thieves and criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7811	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7812	Dear President, I think that, with the presentation of previous fellow Members of Parliament, I think that everything is said, but the amendment and what the president of our parliamentary group mentioned, Alexander Martinovic, we will speak on the day when amendments are discussed, but overall I think that these bill proposals are very good and that they relate to the general benefit primarily of generations that are coming and will continue to develop our country, to lead it and to continue where some generations before them have stopped, and that is to finally create from our Serbia the place that we all want for the lives of all of us and our children. I think previous presentations have covered everything about the laws themselves, especially if we're considering that we're having a total discussion somewhere and more than seven hours seems to me, almost eight hours is now. You'll agree with me all present in the O.R. that I don't think there's a point to this law or something broader than the picture that isn't covered today and isn't mentioned. What I want to point out is the fact that essentially these laws show that the government policy of the Republic of Serbia is followed by President Aleksandr Vukic's policy and the SNS itself, which is a concern for young people. Yesterday, during the historic address of President Alexander Vukic, we could hear how much more important it is to whom we leave our country and what we leave for generations to come. Are we going to have someone and what to leave behind, and it is about the birth of children and our picture of incentives for young couples and those environments where unfortunately the situation is catastrophic. We had a previous period of opportunity to hear Serbia loses an average of one city on an annual basis and certainly everything we achieve will not be worth anything to us unless we have anyone to leave a brighter future. I think the best picture shows how drastically different our country is today compared to that period in 2012 and 2013, the fact that a large number of young highly educated people are returning to our country and that they finally see the perspective and see the future in our country, as one of the previous colleagues, speakers, MPs said, is nowhere more beautiful than in their country. I think this clearly shows how much our country's picture has changed not only in the world, but how much the perception of the people who left our country has left the country by 2012/2013. year or 2014 is now different, because they finally see the future and they want to come true in Serbia, but they also want to learn what they have learned somewhere in Europe or the world to apply in our country. In addition to this, the fact that we are the fastest growing economy in Europe and the additional courage of young people is infused and that today's average salary is much higher than in 2012 but also inflows and courage, and that everything that SNS promises, above all President Aleksandar Vukic, is fulfilled, and so is the plan of Serbia 2020-2025 which envisions that pension will be over 440 euros, while the average salary will be over 900 euros, is an additional motive for young people to stay here, continue their education and to create their family in Serbia and it is irrelevant whether it is Nis, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Belgrade. It is important that we stay in our country and continue to develop our country together. In addition to this, they say that unemployment, if we take into account the parameters taken by people who criticise today, not only this law but the complete policy of the Serbian government, are people who were able to lead not only Serbia as Serbia, but directly under their control have the city of Belgrade. Yeah, and that's where I think of Dragan Gilas, who is the strongest in these criticisms these days, and somehow I like to compare the results to where he had the greatest responsibility. We often hear that he couldn't change something in the Democratic page or at the level of the Republic of Serbia, although at that time he was all the world in the Democratic Party, but here, we'll take examples of how he was where he was able to influence business and work. So, in the Democratic Party while it was at its head, it was also the mayor, I'm just going to give that information, unemployment was over 20% at the time while unemployment in the city of Belgrade is below 7%. If you take this information into account, you can best see and paint the fact that he then cared about employment or investment in young people and generally that young people find perspective in our city and Serbia. Although I can discuss this very much, and I think there's little time left for our parliamentary group, so I'm going to shorten the exposure so that I don't leave time and colleagues after me to discuss, if there's any time left, I just want to draw attention to one crucial thing here, but I don't think it's pronounced enough. Dear Minister, I believe that you will agree, and that is the fact that there is almost no elementary school in it that something has been done and changed, and that it has not been renovated at least in one part, but by 2012 and 2013, we have had situations where elementary schools were shaped and were in that issue as they were when they were made, that they were not able to be the only nail to nail or change the board, in the yard, in the sports field. Such an image has been changed today and the fact that we are talking today about additional investment in education and that we are dealing with these topics clearly shows how far we have overcome all these problems and how much our country has managed to develop and how important it is for generations to come, which is education. I hope that the Serbian government will continue to follow President Aleksandar Vukic's policy, and that it will continue to pass the laws it proposes, in line with the general interest of Serbian citizens and that, in spirit of better life, we will continue to develop our country further. With the desire to find even more good laws before us, Minister, I want you to follow the policy of the Serbian government, President Aleksandr Vukic, and that we are all creating a better and even better place to live. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7813	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. Next on the list is Mr. Marian Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying - that knowledge is the wealth that follows its owner everywhere. I hope that our higher education, that not only will produce diplomas, but there will be many diplomas without cover, but that people with knowledge will come out behind higher education. The difference between title and knowledge is great, and the ascension of various diplomats and titles, that naziness, modern science cannot explain. I hope teachers who teach students learn themselves, too, because they have to keep learning to teach others. We have teachers, which I believe, some of the professors, so they don't pass receptions at the university where they teach. I want teachers who carry knowledge, not teachers who will sign in indexes, to produce just a mere calling, because you have to transfer some knowledge, and it has to be applicable to contribute to this society and the state. The rest of my time, I'm going to give in to my colleagues behind me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-23-0.u7815	I thank Mr. Risticevic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if the President, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? ( No. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the proposals of the law of Dots. The 1st and 2nd agendas. I thank everyone for constructive discussions. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
