ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I invite you to listen at the beginning and welcome the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. I thank you. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 133 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into their parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 169 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear People's Messengers, I invite you to pay our respects to the deceased MP Ivan Tasovac for a moment of silence. Let him be famous. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to request information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9441	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice President, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I will request an clarification of the answers I received from the MUP, because the answer I received is not accepted and it is necessary for me to get clarifications. It concerns the killings of journalists and humanist Edin Hamidovic in August of this year in Sjenica. In an answer to the MP's question from the MUP, it is said that no one is responsible, and the man has been killed, that he has no responsibility for the members of the MUP and is literally said, "I quote that the members of the MUP have acted according to earlier reports." To clarify, Edin Hamidovic received from a man who will later commit his murder, threats, quote: "I will blow your brains out when you come to Sjenica." A man reports it to the authorities, reports it to the police, and what's going on? A man was brutally killed on a promenade, on a corzo, in front of his children, in front of his wife. And what did we do with the previous reports? I didn't get an answer for who was responsible, why didn't the man get protection, if the killer was in custody, if he was made aware that the authorities were in charge of further control of his movement and work? What would happen to one of us now, and every day we get threats, the president of the state is threatened, his family, all of us, and now someone's telling us, I'm gonna blow your brains out because you're saying it in the assembly. And that, God forbid, and someone writes in response, we did, and what someone was killed doesn't matter. If he is not responsible, and I consider the police station commander responsible in Sjenica, but if he is not responsible, I expect the Ministry of the Interior to answer who is responsible for the hierarchical scale above him by rank, because someone must be responsible when an innocent man is killed. Let's just ignore the situation where it happened in the Shadow. In any city of this country that has happened, no matter what the name and last name of that man is, we must establish responsibility. We give full support to the fight against crime and corruption and everything that the Prime Minister and Prime Minister does, but this can't end like this. A man can't be killed. There can't be a murder in the middle of town, the Shadow isn't New York, it wasn't 17th Avenue and the police station in the second. It's a city that has two streets. How come not all roads to the border crossings aren't blocked? A man kills someone and walks quietly across the border, like nothing happened. What is a key issue, colleagues and fellow MPs, is whether we will work to establish a trust on which the permanent Justice and Reconciliation Party works or we will work to deepen the gap between members of the police and members of the Bosniak people. These answers do not contribute to the establishment of trust, and I expect through the clarification that I will receive from the interior ministry's representative, that we will get to see who is responsible and why has not been treated with the reports that Edin Hamidovic had made before his murder to the authorities? My second question is addressed to the Ministry of Mining and Energy and Electricity of the Republic of Serbia - when will the village of Zabren near the village of Sjenica of the power grids from the long-term pillars be transferred to the concretes that have been set up? I don't have to remind myself, the village of Zabren is located on the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica, I don't have to remind the competent or citizen and the citizens of what cave winters we had last year in the space of our entire country, especially in the area of the Sanjay municipalities. We have a situation here that good concrete pillars are built and that the competent authorities, the power distribution representatives don't have time, they don't have enough energy, they don't have the motivation to get from the up-to-date wooden pillars, they wear out the nets, they transfer the nets and the cables to the concrete pillars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9442	Thank you. The word has Stefan Krkobic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9443	Thank you. Dear President Dacic, dear vice-presidents, the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P" believes that the preservation of KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia is one of our most important state and national interests. Therefore, the PUPS provides unreserved support to our negotiators, especially the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, who is struggling in Brussels talks against all those who would banish the Republic of Serbia from our southern province. Accordingly, for years we have stressed that KIM is not only a state, legal, democratic, national and civil issue, but also a fundamental property and existential issue for all citizens of our country. The concept of property or property is understood by everyone in the world, and in particular by the countries of the West, among them by those who produced and recognised Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence. When it comes to the property issue of KIM, the right to international and domestic law, justice and arguments are on the side of the Serbian state. Therefore, the issue of property, natural and material wealth in KIM, so the property of the state of Serbia and its citizens, as well as the property of the SPC and other religious communities, must be a topic ahead of all topics, priority over priorities when it comes to the Brussels-based dialogue agenda of Belgrade and Pristina. A cataster since before NATO aggression in 1999 has proved unequivocally that at least 58% of the land, i.e. KIM territory, is in the state, private, social and church property of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. And with constant and loud emphasis on this argument in the first place, it would dramatically improve our negotiating position in our favour and in potential status negotiations. Therefore, the provisional authorities in Pristina are trying to change this, with original documents backed by a legal and factual state, with the aim of putting us in a subjugated position. Our parliamentary issue today is dedicated to the status of SPC and other religious communities in KIM. All religious communities in our country are interested in this issue, and an example of this is the engagement of Belgrade archbishop Stanislav Hotchevar on the National Team for the Rebirth of Serbia, and we all know that the Vatican has not admitted so-called. The state of Kosovo, and the Holy See has also helped us prevent the kidnapping of Orthodox Christian saints in Kosovo through the failed entry of Kosovo into UNESCO. The multi-party Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also voted in 1991 on the Law on Confirmation of Assets of the SPC and other religious communities in Serbia by trying to correct the injustice and kidnapping committed by then by the authorities after World War II. Unfortunately, for some ideological reasons then, the president of the Republic did not sign the law that was passed eight years before NATO aggression. But finally in 2006, I stress, two years before Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence, the Republic of Serbia finally passed a Law on the return of property to churches and religious communities, which in Section 4 of Article 3 explicitly emphasises that under the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in terms of this law, Kosovo's AP and Metohija. The property of churches and religious communities can be returned to the church most easily without dilemma because of the properties that remain in the state, or so on today. Social property because the kidnapped property of the state was given to the so-called so-called. But mostly these properties are in the same exact state as when they were taken away. Therefore, the return of that property should not constitute a special financial burden for the state because it will be predominantly returned in natural form. There are records about church property, and it is easy to identify churches and religious communities as former owners, and the restitution of property to churches and religious communities based on the equality of these entities and the equality of their rights will improve their material position and create better conditions for more successful intercrisal and inter-religious co-operation. Returning property to religious communities in KIM is particularly important for the necessary support of both political and social entities in our country and the international community during the continuation of negotiations in Brussels with temporary authorities in Pristina. The questions for the Government of the Republic of Serbia are, first of all, what exactly on the plan of restitution of SPC assets and other religious communities in KIM is our government doing? Secondly, what is the co-operation of our government with the provisional institutions in Pristina? Third, what was the response of European intermediaries in Brussels dialogue if our negotiators ran for the topic in the agenda of dialogue? Fourthly and lastly, due to the apparent obstruction of the opening of this essential life issue by intermediaries coming from the EU, will the UN report on this by the Republic of Serbia, based on the letter of Resolution 1244, the source address for the control and management of the Brussels dialogue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9444	Thank you. Djordje Milicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9445	Thank you, Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr. Dacic. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is October 5th, and I don't think I'm talking about the past, because we from the SPS parliamentary group, we believe that lessons should be learned from the past, affirmed what is good, watched the present and built the foundations of the future. But, simply, some things that have happened in the past deserve today finally an epilogue and deserve answers to certain questions. Those who were on the street 21 years ago who thought that the act of overthrowing Slobodan Milosevic would bring democracy to Serbia had wrong expectations and relied on the wrong political goals. Today it is clear to everyone that the goal was actually Serbia. If so, they showed themselves after October 5th, Serbia was torn down, the economy sold out, for two, three euros each, the Bourage privatisation put the best companies into the tucoon or DOS finance, and the Resistance. Behind them is literally a wasteland. Unfortunately, these five-octobarians, some of whom today admit October 6th and talk about some lustration, are the ones who are supposed to be in front of the authorities, explain to the citizens what was in fact the goal of their October 5th. If their goal was to improve their lives, they didn't show when they took over, thousands of companies went under bankruptcy, nearly 500 thousand people were out of work, all domestic banks were destroyed, the military destroyed, the defence system, over 1,000 judges replaced and thus destroyed the judiciary, and Serbia became a monet to substitute DOS and their external cartridges. There are no areas where Serbia still does not suffer after October 5th. Today, on behalf of all citizens and those who trusted DOS, those who did not, I would remind them of another devastating action on October 5th. It's the burning of this building, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when a huge cultural treasure was destroyed and stolen from valuable paintings, to the mobiley, burned-out premises in which the election material was stored. During the last session, we had the opportunity to see an exhibition and a list of missing art exhibits with a value of almost millions of euros. We also saw a documentary about robbing the National Assembly and a book called "Art Waiting for Justice" was published. Indeed, we expect this justice. Nobody's been responsible for this until today. In this regard, I would like to ask you first of all the question of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in fact, to the General Secretariat, and then to the competent authorities and the competent institutions - whether the National Assembly has any knowledge of whether the prosecution has initiated any criminal proceedings against the organisers or individual perpetrators of the demolition attack on the National Assembly and of the robbery of an invaluable cultural treasure, and if not, will it be done in the next period of time? The question for the Secretary-General and the Secretariat is – do you know the value of stolen art and art from the Assembly? Some of the former DOS, these days appear in the media accusing some people now after 20 years. Very interesting, by the way, it's always been so that the attack is the best defense. They are aware that, with the help of their foreign investors, they have done irreparable damage to Serbia for a short time. Today, those who have recognised the bombing, who do not love their country or their people, speak of Serbia today about its future, condemn those who have defended their country, today the Serbs are declaring a genocide nation, if it is from the failed DOS, many. Even, President, on one of the shows is one of the call the quasi politicians, and the one who is a plus-squamperfect, Serbia's political scene said that you were to be arrested on October 5th. Well, since you weren't arrested from 2000 to 2012, they had plenty of time for that. Otherwise, as far as lustration is concerned, they don't understand what lustration means. The lustration is carried out by citizens, and the SPS is a relevant political factor in Serbia's political scene for 31 years. So they're lustrated, not SPS. Very briefly, the second part of the issue refers to this, for a little while counterpart Samir Tandir was talking about it, the way they treat MPs. First we are stoned, exposed to pressures here in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and don't tell me it was just a gathering of citizens. Of course, one part of the opposition brings them together. Today they begin a new phase of pressure on the MPs. The MPs must not speak at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because they will receive threats. One of the MPs who received the threat was SPS MP Tom Fila, only because he spoke at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A man who had professionally and professionally achieved, who was culturally, emancipated, never used an ugly vocabulary, nor addressed any ugly tone, received an ugly and scandalous threat. I insist that this letter, along with the envelope, be delivered to the competent authorities and competent institutions, because this must be placed at the point and this must not become a norm of social behaviour in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9446	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9447	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have several parliamentary questions because a lot of things happened during this brief period of time that we didn't sit down. First, a dozen days ago, there was a complete precedent. There has been something that has never happened before, that in a television show, it is "New S" which we know is controlled by Dragan Gilas through Solak, the leader of the most open and brutal cursing mother to the president of the state. And nothing to anyone. Absolutely nothing. I am now asking – in which country in the world, which is the country in the world where the show can brutally curse the mother to the president of that country, without absolutely any sanctions. Here, I'll tell you -- in Serbia and in the same Serbia where, according to the same cursers, media darkness, censorship, media blockade, horror, dictatorship, etc. So, the most vulgar curse on the mother of the president of the state, the hair on your head is not missing because of that act, and then you claim that it's a media blockade and dictatorship. Who's crazy here? For days after he played the bereaved bride, because at least part of decent Serbia condemned such monsters, condemned such a protest and sent a message that it was a scandal and primitiveism of the first species and that it was absolutely unacceptable behavior. Especially hypocrisy and a feeling of disgust, let's just say, they're causing false elitists who, in every way, have been trying to defend this primitiveism for days and weeks. There's a wide range of attempts at justification, so I'd like to take a turn. What does that look like? This in front of me is “print screen” or “screen shot” to say young people, because they first started a campaign as it is actually a podcast, that it is not a television show, that it is just a simple format of a subcast and it is not particularly important, rather benign, etc. So this isn't about any independent and independent podcast. Who knows little about these technologies, YouTube, etc. It is clear to him that only people could see this show on the "New S" platform controlled by Dragan Gilas, and that should be clear to people. So, only on the "New S" web platform and on the official YouTube channel "New S". So, these two, this Vidojkovic and this Kulacin don't have their own production, they're not independent and independent, this is "New S", this is Dragan Gilas and this is Solak. I find the most ridiculous attempt to justify it, when they say it is the creative rage of Mark Vidojkovic. So, citizens, when Marko Vidojkovic curses on your mother, you should know, he didn't mean to offend you, he didn't mean anything by it, it's about his creative rage. It's even more funny to me, the chairman, when NUNS, is the one that financed them in time by Dragan Gilas with six million, and this NUNS justifies this with the words that it's all benign and that it's freedom of expression and similar nebulosis. Or when that humorist, in an attempt, says Vidojkovic is always cursing and that it is nothing new and thus relativizes it and even makes us get used to it. So it's as if it's commendation that this writer, beware what's worst he's a writer, as if it's commendation that one writer curses constantly, as if it's something to be proud of, as if it's ultimately justified or exempt from responsibility. Or that unfortunate Lutovac, who went the farthest in support of Mark Vidojkovic, tweeted that Vidojkovic had actually remained unspeakable. Here, Zoran Lutovac, who says - after everything Vukic said, the impression remains that Vidojkovic remained unspeakable. This is ladies and gentlemen, the picture and opportunity of this fake elite in Serbia, which is absolutely acceptable to this kind of behaviour, which is absolutely acceptable to the president of the state on television in direct transmission swearing to his mother. That is why I absolutely agree with Ana Brnabic in the assessment that Marko Vidojkovic is an ideal presidential candidate for the part of the opposition, because he is the chairman of the best way to represent all that part of the opposition stands for. So, in just a few days, there was a savage attack on the SNS premises in Novi Sad, in which one of the actors is the son of Borislav Novakovic, a senior party official, Vuk Jeremic, called Bora Thessaloniki, because he is a participant in the Thessaloniki vote affair. You remember that call to the National Assembly, that's when DOSs used to vote from Bodrum, Thessaloniki, and who knows where they came from. However, it wasn't his only affair, there were financial malfeasances, thievings, etc. Now, today, his son is savagely and vandally breaking the SNS's rooms into his father's next policy. Again, it's acceptable for a false elite, understandable. They say – the child responded emotionally. What child? The boy is 23 years old. What kind of a 23-year-old kid is that? Now, this is what it looks like when the son of Bora Solunca, the chairman, has an outpouring of emotion. They say this is an outflow of emotion, a demoted SNS room. So, citizens, if Bora Thessaloniki's son breaks your window or door from home, you know he didn't want to hurt you, he just poured out his emotions. Nice company. This one pours out creative rage, this one pours out emotions. All creative and emotional. That only after a day or two of this event in the middle of the city would be physically attacked editor of the "Serbian Telegraph" Milan Ladjovic, with a direct threat to death. Here, I'm not alive waiting for the investigation to show who did it so let's hear what happened this time, was it creativity or emotion this time? Why did I put this together, to the very end of the presidency, because all this is a direct consequence of years of dissipating hatred and generating the atmosphere of fear, violence, calling for a lynch and persecuting all those who dare not think like them, not to think like Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Lutovac, Jeremic and all others. So that part of the opposition constantly calls for persecution and a link to anyone who dares to publicly support Alexander Vukic's policy in order to challenge different scenarios for the violent takeover of power in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9448	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. You have been presented the minutes of the 13th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Issues has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 13th Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly, held on 13 and 15 September. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 175, for – 168, did not vote – seven. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Thirteenth Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly, held on September 13th and 15th. Ladies and gentlemen, in the assembly of this session, which has been delivered to you, a draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MPs Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi, Selma Kučević, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardjend Bajrami suggested that, by emergency procedure, they be put on the agenda – a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 9 June 2021. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: in total – 175, for – three, against – seven, abstention – one, did not vote 164. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a motion for a resolution on crimes in and around Srebrenica from 1992 to 1995, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 June 2021. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – eight, did not vote 166. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Ana Karadzic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. People's message, Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9449	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were all witnesses that aggression and crime were committed in 1999, in which soldiers and civilians and children were killed. Unfortunately, we can't change that today, but what's up to us at this session is to put this supplement on the agenda and form a committee that will determine by name and last name who were killed by the aggressors, that we have the right list of people, that we honor families who have suffered the loss and that we write our own history. The symbolically today is October 5th, which also reminds us that we have sinned against the victims of NATO bombing, that is, their family, as well as all the citizens who were then manipulated by fear, deceived, mistaken that violence would come to democracy. You know, when only a year after NATO was an aggression, after so many people were killed, only a year you in the same aggressive and violent way came to power. The NATO aggression was trying to call NATO humanitarian intervention. The criminals called themselves humanitarian. So on October 5th, they tried to portray it as a humanitarian act that would save Serbian citizens, who would lead the country into a democratic society and save the state of Serbia. However, these two-thousands had a much greater chance of finding out who those who were killed during NATO bombing, the name and last name were to determine the list of killed children. Instead of writing back then the history of heroism, we wrote again in treason, continued aggression against the Serbs by starting to deliver them to the aggressors. We've been talking -- here's whoever you want, here's what we'll do, we'll deliver everything, just let us go, let us rule, do our robbery privatisations, let us fulfill our personal interests, you want Serbia destroyed anyway. The symbol of their authority was then delivered on Vidovdan, but I would no longer discuss it. I'd like what's important to us today, which is that we and they knew then that NATO killed about 2,000 people and children. They decided not to do it, to ignore it. But who are we today, if we're using a rhetoric today of some people or about 2000, who are we today if we don't know exactly who was killed, what is his name and last name, who are these families to which we should restore dignity, if we don't know the exact list of who killed it in 1999? What separates us from being moral, being proud of our actions, what separates us from being worthy of respect? Just one assembly debate, one that most of us here finally make that list, finally bring back the democracy that was completely killed on October 5th, restore dignity to families and honor all who gave their lives to our country. I ask the Members of Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9450	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: Total - 174 for – 19, did not vote - 155. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 March. National MP Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9451	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, lives in Serbia more than 12,000 exile families in the status of tenants or inhuman conditions. I think the time has come for the government in one comprehensive, fair and lasting way to resolve the housing issue of the exiled Serbs from today's Croatia and the Federation of BiH as a key issue of integration. I would like to remind you that the government began the implementation of the so-called regional housing programme in 2012, whose main donors are the EU and a number of other countries and international organisations, and that the agreement was to be completed in the next five years, so by 2017, and that it would be settled nearly 17000 pro-Nazi families. Unfortunately, the program was implemented and implemented extremely slowly, unqualityly, unprofessionally. Since a few months ago, we have a statement from the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, which states that since 2012, when the realisation of the regional housing programme began, only a little more than 7,000 pro-Nazi families have been resolved by this year. So the large number of major war victims in the former Yugoslavia area will remain unsolved. I propose my proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Refugees Act to make a decision for the government to continue the regional housing programme, to resolve the 12000 exiled families on a housing basis. Then, I propose this bill that more than 1,000 exile families who are not allowed to compete on housing programs because they did not have a formal refugee status, so that they can compete to resolve their housing issue. We have several categories of exile families that are not allowed to buy their apartments built by means of international organisations or the EU, which is 50 families living in Diposa apartments in Belgrade. It is the 530 family of users of the SIR programme, a programme funded by the Italian government in seven cities and municipalities, to allow them to buy out under favourable conditions. We have hundreds of exile families living in apartments that are built through a social housing and social housing programme in protected conditions, to enable them to buy out on favourable terms. Finally, this bill of mine ensures that all these families have a ransom price, that they have a double discount on the ransom, not just 50%, as well as all those families who have already signed a purchase contract to get a double discount through the annex. So, I suggest that today's session agenda be complemented by my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9452	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -172, for – eight, did not vote – 164. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 12 May. The People's MP Lint has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9453	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the existing Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War, and members of their families are not recognised by members of the army and police of Republika Srpska. I think it's discrimination. The Krajina fighters feel bitter, unhappy, disappointed and feel that they have not waged any private war, but have fought with honor and courage to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Yugoslavia and have courageously and courageously defended the Serb people in the territory of Republika Srpska. With my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War, and members of their families, I ask, therefore, Article 1 that all members of the Army and Republika Srpska police are recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. Secondly, I ask that all fighters who are currently classified under the current law according to the time of military engagement in three categories, that fighters be classified as two categories, that the first-class fighter is a fighter with an engagement for over 45 days and a fighter who has been recognised as the property of a military disabled, regardless of the length of his engagement, and the fighter of the second category is a fighter with an engagement of up to 45 days. Why am I suggesting this? Because in the current proposal, the first category fighter must have at least 200 days if he was a member of the Republika Srpska Army and police, while the first category fighter who fought at KIM is enough to have 60 days of military engagement. Third, I ask that citizens from Republika Srpska who have sustained injury or wound be re-recognised to the status of a civilian disabled war. Namely, there are at least 12 civilian disabled wars from Republika Srpska that received a personal disability from 2000 to 2013, when the disabled was abolished by a federal regulation. I don't think it's right and that a team of 12 civilian disabled wars from the RSK should be recognized as the property of a civilian disabled war. Next, I demand that the request for recognition of the properties of a wartime wartime invalid be filed within one year of the entry into force of the amendments and the addition of this law, because that deadline has now passed and we have another part of the Krajina fighters who have not applied for recognition of the status of a military disabled. Also, I ask that a request for recognition of the properties of a wartime military invalid based on post-traumatic stress disorder can be filed without a time limit. I particularly ask that the original written evidence from the time of participation in the war to determine the status of the fighter be recognised as a military book or other documents with the sealing of the Serbian Autonomous Area of Krajina, the Serbian region of Western Slavonia, the Serbian area of Slavonia-Baranja and the Western Srem and Republika Srpska, if the status of the fighter cannot be established on the basis of existing original documents, many of them do not, we know, because of the criminal actions "Blesk" and "Storm", ask that the landscape fighters be able to determine the status of a fighter based on two qualified witnesses. Finally, in the end, I ask that post-traumatic stress disorder be determined in exceptional cases on the basis of medical documentation stemming from the pre-application period of the application for recognition of the right under that law, and not exclusively from the period during the period of war circumstances, but not later than two years from the day of their termination. So, with this proposal, I suggest that today's agenda be complemented by my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9454	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 184, for – six, did not vote – 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on: the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Fiscalisation, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Interim Register of full-year citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is being paid for monetary aid to mitigate the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus and the Proposal for a Law on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad for the purposes of financing of the Subotica-Horgos railway border project with Hungary (Segedin). Is Ambassador Martinovic asking for a word? ( No. I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 167 did not vote – seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 167 did not vote – seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority of votes established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Dn n e d: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Fiscalisation, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Temporary Register of full-year citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is paid for monetary assistance to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus; Proposal for a Law on Obligation of the Republic of Serbia to OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad for the purpose of financing the Subotica-Horgoš railway border with Hungary (Segedin); Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Noise of Noise in the Environment, and Proposal for an Amendment of the Law on the Law on Museum Activity. Before we continue, just to let you know, as we have practiced so far, I will inform you that we will be working today, tomorrow and Thursday with the goal of voting somewhere Thursday around 6:00. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend, Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance; Slavica Savičić and Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Dr Dragan Demirović, Assistant Minister of Finance; Ana Tripovic, Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance; Anastasija Tanja Djelic, Head of the Finance Department; Marijan Blesic, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Finance and Srdjan Popovic, adviser at the Ministry of Finance. I am asking the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Fiscalisation, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Provisional Register of full-year citizens of the Republic of Serbia to which financial assistance is paid for the mitigation of the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus and the Proposal for Law on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad for the purposes of financing of the draft reconstruction and modernisation of the railway line of Subotica-Horgos border with Hungary (Segedin). Proposer representative, Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9455	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Dacic, honourable MPs, you today have four very important laws for both the economy of the Republic of Serbia and our citizens. The first law on the agenda is the law on the payment of 20 euros in aid and support to mitigate the negative consequences of COVID-19 for all citizens of Serbia, the payment we plan to make in December. I will remind you, this year we have already paid 30 euros for all the adult citizens who have applied for this aid, the remaining 30 euros will be charged, or we will pay in November this year and 20 euros we want to pay in early December to all the full-time citizens of our country. For all those who have not applied for aid of 30 plus 30 euros, for all those who have become full-time after 24 April this year we open the possibility of applying for these 20 euros. Applications will go the same way so far, therefore, via the Treasury Administration website from November 15th to November 30th. I call on all citizens who, I say, have not applied for 30 plus 30 euros and who are aged after 24 April this year to apply and to receive 20-euro aid from the state in December. Those who have already applied for 30 plus 30 euros, as well as our oldest citizens, therefore, pensioners, they do not need to apply, they will also automatically receive this assistance in December. This 20-euro aid is only part of a large aid package that we gave to our citizens and our economy during this year and last year. A total of three aid packages, eight billion euros. So the huge help that helped us avoid these black scenarios that you've had the opportunity to see in other far more developed countries than we have in terms of closing down factories, firing workers. We managed to maintain the same level of employment as before the crisis, before COVID-19, and on the other hand through huge aid we provided and saved a large number of production plants and factories, which gives us the right to be very optimistic when the years ahead are at stake. I'll just remind you that this year, the state of Serbia paid 30 euros to all full-time citizens in May this year. We paid 3,000 dinars to all those who received at least one dose of vaccine by the end of May this year. We paid off 50 euros for all our oldest citizens, 50 euros for all pensioners in the Republic of Serbia. We paid 60 euros for all the unemployed, so for all those who were jobless and unemployed, the state paid all 60 euros. We paid three times 50% of the minimum earnings for all micro-small medium-sized enterprises, all entrepreneurs over a million and 100,000 legal entities or individuals got that help. We have additionally fired two full minimum earnings for all independent artists, an additional two full earnings for all those employed in the field of tourism and hospitality, as the most affected areas due to the negative consequences of COVID-19. So the power of the state has just been mirrored and viewed in these aid packages. Our public finances are stable. We've got money in the register. We keep all the promises we made in the dinar, we keep them in the day, and I hope you will support this 20-euro payout law in December of all citizens of Serbia, which will in some way mark the end of the third aid package. I will remind you that we have promised, that is President Vukic and announced, that in February or March of next year we will pay an additional 20,000 dinars for all of our pensioners, but that is the topic we will discuss when I defend the 2022 budget before you in a few weeks. The next law that is before you today is the Law on fiscalization, i.e. amending the existing Fiscalization Act. As you know, we have a huge job ahead of us. We're already on our way, and that's to replace the existing fiscalization model with the new one. This one's been dating since 2003. I've cited that example several times. We're using 4G technology now. We're talking about the introduction of 5G, and this GPRS system on which the current fiscalization system is based, you have 3G, then some system marked "H", if I'm not wrong, so EJ, then GPRS. So three or four generations ago, some technologies based on an existing fiscalisation system in Serbia. It's time to change it. This system, the new system, brings great benefits to our economy, to our businessmen. You have direct benefits, because you will no longer have the costs of fiscalisation or defiscalization of fiscal registers. That's an expropriation by this law. It will not have the obligation to keep those paper control tapes, it will not have mandatory annual services, as they have now, but, on the other hand, which is a much greater contribution from this law, this law, since it will increase the efficiency of the tax administration's work, will reduce unfair competition to all those who work in accordance with the law, to all those who respect the laws and pay taxes, thereby further contribute to their better and more successful business. This law is a key law for further fighting and curbing the gray economy. In our country three are extremely important things when it comes to amending this law. So this new system is much more flexible, it completely opens the market when it comes to fiscal devices. Fiscal bonds can also use mobile phones and tablets and other modern devices to make it a fiscal device with them. This way, it goes into step with digitisation, with new technologies, and reduces business costs for all those who are fiscal bonds. The second thing, which is very important, we went out to meet our businessmen. We have a transitional period during which the parallel will work or can work both the existing and the new solution. This is the period from 1 November of this year until the end of April of the following year. Our businessmen have been looking for six months. They got six months of amendments to this law, and as far as the deadlines are concerned, let me remind you, the application started on October 1st through the Tax Administration website of all taxpayers to report their sales places to the IRS. Here, until this morning 892 taxpayer tax, 1,400 sales points have already been reported. I call on taxpayers and taxpayers to take advantage of this possibility, not to take advantage of it, but to do so, to report to the IRS within the next month, their retail selling venues. That brings me to the third important thing, the subsidy. No single dinar will cost our economy the introduction of a new system. We provided six billion dinars to cover the cost of purchasing fiscal devices. The regulation was already adopted at a cabinet session last week. So 100 euros for each fiscal device, an additional 100 euros for each selling place. For those who are not in the VAT system, we will increase that amount by 20%, so that on that side of the country is once again fulfilling the promise she made. We won't have a single extra cost or a dinar for our economy. It is very important that we implement this system quickly and efficiently. I also call on all those who want to take advantage of these subsidies to apply via the Tax Administration website to start on October 15th. From 15 October to the end of January, the subsidy application process will continue for these 100 plus 100 euros for all those entering the new fiscalisation system. We have money for it, we have provided and I call on our businessmen to take advantage of it. Once again, a systemically important law when it comes to fighting the gray economy. As you know, preparations have already begun for the application of the Law on electronic invoices. By the end of the year, all public property entities will have an obligation and are already speedily preparing to issue and receive electronic invoices. By the end of next year, it will also apply to all those in the private sector, who are in the VAT system. So by the end of next year with the new fiscalization system with the full application of the e-facture system we'll have and I think we're going to give a final blow to the gray zone in our country. You'll have those who work in accordance with the law or those that are completely in the black zone, but then in a special way, through the authorities, the police, the tax administration and the rest, we'll also deal with it. So we make our economic environment much more competitive, much more attractive. In some solutions, we go one step ahead of everyone and I think it's extremely important, especially for this growth and for the development of our economy, which is the most important goal for us at this point. The third law before you today is a law relating to the tax administration and the tax procedure. Two basic reasons are for amending this law. First, in order to comply with the amendments to the Fiscalization Act, which I had already talked about and, secondly, in order to further give more flexibility to those economic operators who owe the tax administration, and on the other hand, they got into trouble because of Kovida-19, i.e. the pandemic of the coronary virus. The amendments to this law give opportunity, on the one hand, to replace the fulfillment. On the other hand, all those who respected the main debt to the tax administration also get the opportunity to postpone payment of interest. It was again the demands we received from our businessmen. Here, and this is how we meet them. And, the last law that is before you today is the Law on financing the railway line from Subotica to Segedin. The value of this investment is 87m euros. The total length of the railroad is 98 kilometers. This part that passes through our country is 38.5 kilometers. It is very important that this is not only about the reconstruction of the existing railway but also about the construction of a new railway that is missing on certain sections. Of course, it is extremely important for our co-operation between Hungary and Serbia, but on the other hand it only confirms and shows how committed we are to investment, investment and travel and rail infrastructure in our country. We'll be driving fast trains next spring. From Belgrade to Novi Sad, we'll be there in 35 minutes. All over Serbia, rehabilitation, modernisation of railway lines is being speeded up, and at this moment alone, we have seven highways and fast roads that are being built in Serbia. The largest construction site in Europe is our country. So we build the highway Preljina – Požega. We build the Moravski Corridor, build Kuzmin – Sremska Raca, build Lajkovac – Valjevo, then Ruma – Šabac – Loznica, Novi Sad – Ruma, Fruskogorski Corridor, then fast traffic from Surčina to New Belgrade. I expect that by the end of the year we will begin work on building a fast traffic station or highway from Nis, Pločnik, according to the Merdarims. I expect we will begin construction of the Danube highway, from Pogorec to Golubac, and expect works on building the Belgrade-Zrenjanin-Novi Sad highway. So, huge investments in our infrastructure, precisely aimed at "Serbia 2025", a programme that we have defined, fully and fully fulfilled and that in a few years our dear and beautiful country is intertwined with a network of new highways and modern railways. Finally, with congratulations to you and the desire to have a successful autumn session, I just want to tell you that the finance ministry has changed its projection of GDP growth this year. Based on the third quarter score this year, we expect for the third quarter that we had a growth rate instead of 5.6 as we expected, that we would have 7%, 7.6% was our GDP growth rate for the first six months of this year, with 7% of the third quarter I expect to have at least 7% of the growth rate by the end of this year. Until about ten days ago, I was saying that we would grow 6.5%, perhaps a little bit more, and what is a fact is that President Vukic was right, so we're going to get a much better result, we're going to go to at least 7% of the growth rate this year, which means, honourable MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, that we're going to have one of the highest growth rates this year, and when you take into account minus 0.9 from last year alone, for these two years, the greatest economic crisis ever, a pandemic of the coronary virus, Serbia will be among the top three best countries in Europe when the economic outcome is at stake. For the citizens of Serbia, of course, the higher our GDP growth rate, we can also talk about higher pensions, higher salaries, and these are topics that we will face Serbian citizens in the next few days, now that we have summed up the final results for the third quarter. Once again, thank you very much for your patience, I remain available for the questions you have and I expect and I hope you will support these legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9456	I thank the ministers. Do the officials of the committees want a word? National MP Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Finance Committee, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9457	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we held a session of the Committee this morning to discuss these four draft laws. What I think should be complemented somewhere in terms of information to citizens, which is that this proposal, which concerns amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act, should tell citizens that we are introducing and facilitating the possibility of providing credit. This means that if you pay off the principal to the tax administration, you can reprogram interest, which has not been the case so far. I think that somewhere both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognize the needs of not only the economy but also the citizens of Serbia themselves to facilitate this time that has hit us when it comes to the pandemic and somewhere parallel we are going to be giving support to citizens as a country specifically when we talk about money, but that support is also very important that we can do business to support that it works easier on the capital market. It is important to say that you have also recognized that you can't do everything overnight and I think you've heard requests and businesses and also citizens in this sense. When we talk about this work relating to the provisional register of citizens, obviously you follow what the needs of citizens are when someone acquires a condition, which is a full-time citizen with a specific date, so now, in fact, those who have become full-time have the right to certain financial support since 24 April, so don't make a difference between citizens, which is very important. After all, we had the opportunity to hear from both you and Mr. Vukic, which are infrastructure projects that will introduce Serbia into a new era when it comes to highways, and this loan agreement is also in line when it comes to the railway line to the border with Hungary. Serbia has shown from October 1st to October 4th at the "Expo 2020" in Dubai that it has really made a lot of progress, that it has something to offer in co-operation with other countries and nations, thus showing that it is capable of accepting new foreign direct investment. These are all results that no one can bring down. Those who want to destroy Serbia and these results, but also to destroy the interests of Serbian citizens, are those who promote the settlement, so-called. Creative anger, the worst curses that the president of the country's family has ever had, and I think that's what we need every day to tell citizens who work for the interests of the state and their interests and who works against it and who wants to tear them down. We think that all those who stood under the banner of Dragan Gilas today want to destroy Serbia and want to destroy the interests that we are simply trying to give citizens full support to move into a new era of Serbia's development and that is the "Serbia 2025", where we will have a truly secure future for Serbia and our children. I thank you, Mr. Minister, for following all the changes that are taking place on the market and for importing and exporting goods and services when it comes to co-operation with both EU members and Russia and China and with the United Arab Emirates, and that is what we should show at every turn to our citizens, that we are thinking about them and that their interests will always be protected from our side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9458	Thank you. The word is made by MP Djordje Todorovic, member of the Committee and rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9459	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a set of laws in the area of finance proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is my pleasure to inform you in front of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives that legislative solutions have been proposed in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and that the National Assembly and MPs today can discuss the proposed laws. Let me just briefly refer to these proposals proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So today, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is being paid for financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic, Kovida-19 disease, caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. So, the essence of these amendments to the bill implies that in the era, I mean the previous year, what happened not only to Serbia, but to the whole world, and I'm talking about the consequences of the crown, that Serbia reacted effectively, reacted seriously, in difficult times we got respirators, we got vaccines, we managed to build three coves of hospitals and bring in several packages of support to citizens and businesses. So basically, the state has done everything in its power, and the rest of us, citizens, to vaccinate, to follow what the crisis headquarters suggests. It is important in the context of this bill that what we did for the economy, especially sectoral, hoteling, catering, for autocarers, for other sectors, to help these businesses, private companies not to fire workers, that in such a situation that has hit the whole world, Serbia records even the drop in unemployment rates, which is very good, and when we talk about helping citizens on several occasions, the Serbian state has been ready to allocate certain funds and help citizens. Basically, this law implies that all those who have become full-time in the period from April 24th to the day of entry into force of this law can receive certain funds that the Ministry of Finance has defined. Of course, this applies to pensioners and all those who meet certain conditions, and I think they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they have a residence in Serbia, that they have a valid ID card, that they have applied at the time defined for this aid, and that pensioners are automatically registered. As for the second bill, it refers to the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the OTP Bank for the purpose of financing the reconstruction and modernisation of the railway line in the Sutotica-Horgos move. This is what we have defined in the plan "Serbia 2025", which is that we will work on revitalising, reconstructing and modernising railway infrastructure, road infrastructure and here in the next period, as the minister said, we will also have a finished share of the fast track Belgrade-Novi Sad and that in almost half an hour we are arriving from point A to point B. Essentially, a very important contract. Not to be too long, since I won't have enough time, the draft law amending and supplementing the Fiscalization Act has spoken of it more in the last few days. This is also the main topic because this is one of the essential laws that will allow the economic environment in Serbia to be far more advanced, far better than it was before. This is a way to prevent the grey economy, to curb unfair competition, and thus to make the budget of the Republic of Serbia far greater. Of course, these changes define the content of the fiscal account more precisely, as well as the fiscalisation process. A transitional period for fiscalisation commitments is prescribed, and this is the period of six months, from 1 November to the end of April. This is very important, because in this way businesses are gradually introduced and adapted to a new model of fiscalization. It may be important to say about this law that the fiscal cash register law also ceases to apply on 1 May 2022. In the context of the fourth draft law, therefore, the draft law, which implies amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, is essentially in line with the proposal for a fiscalisation law. The point is, once again, and to conclude, these proposed laws are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs will be able to discuss these laws today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9460	Thank you. Before we proceed with further work, one notice of today's work. Dear Peoples MPs, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 18.00 hours for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of authorised parliamentary groups. The word has the vice president of the National Assembly, Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9461	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, chaired by an associate and other Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards a special register to ensure the procedure of granting new tranches to all full-time citizens, certainly not a lot of words should be spent on this subject, except to give full support and to say that in this difficult time, a kind of overall social crisis that has its own and economic-social dimension caused by Kovid, therefore, full support for every form of assistance and this certainly today which is before us. In the future, it should simply be borne in mind that the parameters on which aid decisions are taken should be either this way, either by covering all full-time citizens or the parameters of the socio-economic situation. So all other parameters would be excluded, because in fact only these two parameters ensure full justice in terms of decision-making and category-setting that will receive assistance. As far as the Fiscalization Act is concerned, also this law, by its purpose, according to its structure, actually deserves to be fully supported, which will happen when it comes to the position of the People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, and certainly for reasons that it ensures that the fiscalisation process itself is further effective, and above all, when it comes to employers and citizens themselves. This is, therefore, the essence of the proposal for this law, i.e. the amendment and addition of this law, and should therefore be supported, that is to say, adopted in the voting day. As for the law that will provide funds for the construction of a railway in the north of the country, what always happens to us MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, I think, and all other MPs, is always the greatest joy when we either bring laws or receive information about significant large, or capital investments of any kind, and especially investment in infrastructure. So, that's certainly something, at least from my point of view, is the greatest joy we can have here in the National Assembly, and especially when the capacity to keep paces in infrastructure investments, especially capital investments, whether it's railroads, reconstructions, construction of new railways, certainly in the spirit of time and modernity and all the challenges in which we live, but also particularly important both by quantity and quality are numerous highways that work. What I want to stress here in terms of expectations is the Raška-Novi Pazar railway, and then further westward towards Priboj, for which there is already political will confirmed by a political agreement, but what I want to point out now is an invitation to the authorities to proceed as soon as possible with preparations for the implementation of this project. So it's not the first time, and I'm going to repeat here, that Novi Pazar is the only city in this country that has more than 120,000 inhabitants, which represents a regional centre in both economic and other terms, which in the 21st century has no railway line, or has no connection to rail traffic. So simply this question, given that there are agreements, there is a expressed will, a confirmed will, a signed will, so what I want to point out is that it is not good and it is not acceptable and it is not understandable that the beginning of the realization of this project is delayed. The fourth law that is before us today is the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Administration, more specifically the amendments and additions to this law. It is also one of the topics that is inexhaustible inspiration for us MPs, but not just for us, but for all the other important factors in this country that deal with this issue. So a healthy tax policy means a healthy whole state system, and above all, the security of financing of the entire state system. If you compare today, let me say, state-of-the-art systems and those that are not arranged or less arranged, it's enough to look at the situation in the tax system. So those countries that have a regulated tax system, they are certainly arranged in all other segments. On the contrary, those who are not are hardly arranged in any segment of their national apparatus, or state system. In order for a country to boast of a more quality or orderly tax system, there are certainly laws, tax laws, and that is what is really the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, i.e. Our people's messengers in the National Assembly, and what we do otherwise, and this is what we do today. But it's not the only thing or the only condition that we have in order to have an orderly system so that we can see it from the very title of this law, and by law we imply what's most important in the tax system itself. So we are adopting amendments and additions, that is, we are now considering, and later we will adopt amendments to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act. Actually, the implications are very clear. So it's not enough that you have a law that will only have quality principles or quality provisions that will generally regulate this field or edit the procedure itself, which is very important. However, what is a second part of the importance, which is recognised by the legislator, the legislator and in the very title of this law, is the question of the tax administration, that part of the country's system, which is responsible for implementing tax laws, that is, to implement the law itself. So perfect laws, perfect regulatory or perfection in that segment is the first condition. The second condition is also no less important, which is the realisation of these provisions, which is actually a tax administration called on the ground or in the system called tax administrations. In addition to these two conditions, what I say is an invisible or unwritten rule and what is not written in these laws, as or other sublegal acts, is the will, or political will to build a quality tax system that will not only be quality on paper, but also be executed in terms of determination, but also in terms of realisation itself. What is optimistic, and what is seen through all the legislative initiative, through the legislators of the law, in this case is the Government, or the Competent Ministry of Finance, is this very livingness or dynamics that comes to us in terms of the bill's proposal, and yet the world, through the monitoring of the very needs of the challenges on the ground, whether it concerns the needs of the citizens themselves or whether it concerns the needs of the employers themselves, or whether it concerns the state itself or the synchronisation of all these relationships and needs, this living and this dynamic that we have, it actually shows that we have a full conscience and initiative not to lose a step in terms of the challenges and needs of the economy itself and all that results from these needs. So what we expect more initiatives, more responsibility, more action is actually what is contained in the second half of the title of this law, which is the tax administration, or tax administration, tax system of realisation. That's what's always most important in the entire state system, as well as in every system. It's even much easier to make good laws, because it takes for a good law to have a couple of learned people, a legal profile with a certain experience, whether you have them, whether you borrow them, buy them, or pay. It's not hard to make good laws, of course, if there is a political will for it, and thank God in our case it exists here. However, what is always much harder is to bring, provide, provide the right people in a legal place, especially living in a time of not some large or rich human resources. Otherwise, the whole world in this modern civilization is in some kind of human inflation, where we have very many formally confirmed personnel, with many diplomas, with many certificates, with many different references. Today, when you are looking for a particular feature for certain jobs in this modern practice, you usually know that with the requirements and other documentation, an SV, or a particular biography, which lists references, and since everyone writes their SV then it is usually one praise, so when you look at certain SV you see only experts, experts, experience, all possible beauty and kindness of the candidates. However, when you later entrust him with a job or a certain jurisdiction, you see a certain difference between those wonders that were written in the SV and what is really shown, because many have understood that it is very important to have a formal reference, and skills, expertise, certain qualities of others that are necessary, commitment, loyalty, etc. which cannot stand in the SV, because it is difficult to formulate, most unfortunately, most often, it is absent. If we add this to the fact that many anomalies have been inherited from earlier, especially many employees, many financial inspectors who have made their positions in certain tax administrations for years and decades, and then, you know, themselves, these are very sensitive positions with which corruption and other forms of illegality can achieve interest and profit, if you add that ballast to this fact, then it is not easy to implement reform, reorganisation, restore the structure of tax administrations, or tax administrations to have, as I say, real people in the right places. Our experience with the New Market Tax Administration, and I've spoken many times, is not good. We have everything and everything there, and there is a need to take the necessary measures. But in addition to what I said, and I think it is necessary to have a quality tax administration and realization, in addition to what the state needs to do through laws and personnel, what is very important is that in one society it is not possible to achieve a full tax culture, if I can say so, without changing the awareness of the citizens themselves, and it is very important to strengthen the activities of its own education on a variety of levels, from the school through the media to the healing of tax culture. Unfortunately, many citizens think if they avoid paying taxes that they have achieved their interest. In the short term, yes banally, in some sense, but the real interest of citizens is that a fair tax pay is actually a real long-term interest of citizens, and there is much work to be done on. However, in order for this to happen, the vessel must be fully healthy. So it's not enough that a large bowl is healthy 99%, and that in one place it leaks, because if in one place it's damaged, then it's definitely going to leak out everything that's in it and those healthy parts in that case won't mean anything. As for the tax administration in Novi Pazar, it paints some state of the other state authorities, many inherited problems and in the structure of employees, both in terms of quality and in terms of the appearance of certain types of corruption, but what is important for us members of the Bosniak national community is the very structure of employees. Therefore, the structure of employees in ethnic national terms does not correspond to the structure of the population. Of course, I'm not one of those who insists that it be simply overwritten, but one must take care of a framework, especially when it comes to employment policy. True, what is even worse than the tax administration itself is the police. In the police department, we've talked about it many times, and what makes me actually include in this discussion is the explanation we heard from the police minister who says he doesn't care who the nationality is when he takes the cops. This would be good and could be experienced by such an idealistic commitment to the profession, quality in terms of expertise from an ordinary policeman, inspector and still functioner. But that principle would then have to be shown where Serbs are in the majority and where Serbs are in the minority or where Serbs are in the minority or where they are in the majority, and not that we have a picture that they are always where the majority of the people are in the majority is not possible to happen that the police chief is Bosniak or I don't know if there are other national minorities in Vojvodina. If there are, they'd be good examples. I know in case there's a place where the Bosniaks live without them. Therefore, we cannot observe this parameter in one direction only, but if we have the expertise and ability then it can happen, let's say, that in Novi Varosha where we have only 7% of Bosniaks, let's say there's a time to be Chief or Commander of the Bosniak Police or, let's say, even in Prepolje where it's almost half-and-half, and in Priboj where only 20% of Bosniaks are. No, it can never happen there, but very often it happened in Novi Pazar, Sjenica, notorally in the famous Sjenica already spoken of several times, in Tutin where the absolute majority of the Bosniak population, the commander very often or the chief were members of Serbian nationality, and when it comes to the structure, the complete opposite. So, in Novi Pazar, you have 80% of Bosniaks, you have 20% of Bosniaks in the police, you have 30% of Serbs in Sjenica, you have 70% of them in the police. So, you know these are awkward topics for me. I'm not one to count nationalities, but I can't accept such answers. Gentlemen or we will apply the principle of fairness in terms of quality of profession, competence and ability, etc. In that case, we will then have the same access to all works or not, and what discourages this argument is the fact that we still have in the policy of hiring young police officers, staff, inspectors, despite the fact that in the contests a very large number of Bosniaks are waiting, we have decisions in which the ethnic structure is at the expense of Bosniaks. It is certainly unacceptable, as are unacceptable, and we heard this morning about fellow Members of Samir Tandira, an explanation of such a superficial relationship to events in Sjenica. So we can't accept such arguments, we can't think of it as normal to say everything's fine with two rows without any arguments. It can't be right if the police have been warned that someone's brain will be blown off and that's what the brain is for, and the police haven't removed with a small finger. So these are things that show us that from the position of the first man and the police at all can't be treated that way. It may be a politician or the first man of the police, but it must be known that in this country in the Balkans, police are the most pronounced front towards the people and that it is very sensitive. For years, we've been working with this government to restore trust between the police and Bosniaks, and you know well what burdens us from past times, especially in the 1990s, especially in the years when police took mosques in 2007. With all these wounds, we are trying to restore that trust and now someone comes from the politicians' position with irresponsible statements to restore that mistrust. So that's something that we need to take seriously and actually avoid anything that can increase the confidence gap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9462	Thank you. The president of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9463	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, amendments and additions to the Fiscalization Act, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, above all, I view as legal solutions that define our existing legal system and legal solutions that need to further strengthen our financial system. With the proposed amendments and additions to the Fiscalization Act, we will first allow the creation of a basis to implement this process of electronic fiscalisation in Serbia and, as the minister has just explained, it is essentially a course of modernisation in this part of the Tax Administration, but I will explain what this means specifically for our businessmen, and what it means for the Tax Administration. With the help of new electronic fiscal devices, each account is intended to be fiscalised at the time of transport. In real time, therefore, data transfer is carried out to the Tax Administration which will receive information on the issued fiscal account at the exact moment of its creation. As a result, the IRS will also have a better insight into how the legal norms relating to the obligations of entrepreneurs to the IRS are implemented and will be able to better control the issue of bills and the collection of taxes. This process will make it easier for entrepreneurs and the Tax Administration. Businesses will also have better insight into the traffic of their businesses in real time, and will be able to verify business reports faster and easier. This process of course requires a technological transition and we talked about it a little while ago, because taxpayers will have to obtain new devices accordingly. The Serbian government will define certain financial assistance to make it easier for them in this segment as well. In line with the needs of electronic fiscalisation and amendment of the Fiscalization Act, we are also today discussing the amendment and addition of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. In addition, these changes and changes provide that the Tax Administration, under its official duty, submits a tax application for accounting contributions for compulsory social security, not only for the founder, but also for members of his family and when the obligor fails to submit such an application. Also, another advantage prescribed by the amendments and the additions to the laws is to regulate the part relating to the delay in the payment of the remaining interest. The only condition that interest payments can be postponed is that the obligation to pay the principal is respected. It is very important that, in this way, by adopting such legal provisions, we once again show that we are ready to go to this path to ensure that the whole tax payment process is transparent, that public finances are available to everyone and that we can all observe the money flows from the moment it is charged, to the moment the finalisation ends, when it is finally paid out of the budget. We have been through one difficult period over the past years, through one difficult time, when certain measures have been applied, I can say freely unpopular, in order to make financial consolidation, but we have definitely achieved the goal and it was best seen a year and a half ago, when there has been an economic crisis everywhere in the world, and of course it has reflected on us, due to the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. Even then, the state was behind the economy and a comprehensive package of measures to protect businesses from possible negative consequences. For a year and a half, we have been trying to maintain our economy and maintain the pace of development that was characteristic of the period before the pandemic broke out. The pandemic didn't just hit our economy, it definitely reflected much more on the world's leading economies, and it's logical that in all these countries it was necessary for the state to stand somewhere behind the businessmen and be their basis in order to preserve the course of economic activity that it had been until then. Based on our previous experiences, we can also say that as a Parliament that supported the government's measures and the government made the right moves and we can always ask whether these moves were right, but experience has shown that the moves were not only the right ones, but they came at the right time, which is most important both for the economy and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think we should have a dilemma whether or not we should support amendments to the Bill on the provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid cash aid to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic. It is normal to support these changes even though they are more technical and will allow those citizens who in the meantime have become full-time so that they can count on money aid paid out of the republican budget or on those citizens who have in the meantime acquired some other conditions concerning pre-determined residence. I must again point out that at the beginning of the outbreak of the pandemic, there were no optimistic forecasts when we talk about the damage suffered by all the world economies and when it was expected that somewhere and those small economies, including our own, would capitulate before the crisis, that there would be layoff of workers, but it did not happen, and certainly that the package of measures that came at the right time helped to prevent such a scenario. And we're going to draw a line at the end of this year, and we're going to see where we are, and we're going to see what our economic parameters are, and in addition to my claims that we're on the right track, it's talking about when at the end of last year we drew the line, and we've seen that in maybe the hardest year when the pandemic broke out, that we've reduced unemployment and that it was single-digitally. It is most important for us from the SDPS, when we talk about aid that goes towards both citizens and businesses, to primarily protect workers, so that the burden of the crisis is not passed on to workers. It is very important that employees have regular payments, that workers are not fired, that we open new jobs and that we have the best working conditions. On the other hand, we also support this concept to help the economy and to bring about all possible benefits, not only in the monetary cost coming from the republican budget, but also in other forms of relief offered by the republican government. I think it's a real recipe to keep economic activity at the same level that was behind us for years. Each country, of course, listens to the needs of its market, listens to the needs of its economy, and accordingly takes certain measures, and such a similar formula is applied in other countries in the world. I'm going to say that in April of this year or March, I can't tell exactly now, in the U.S. Senate approved a package of financial measures in the context of the fight against the pandemic of $1.9 billion. So, one measure that's popular all over the world. It was similar in Germany, they applied similarly in France, so we're not the only ones who are trying to stimulate the economy in this way and help the citizens. There is always a question above us of what would happen if the package of measures, the first one to come, hadn't come then and that it was missing, that the state wasn't helping the economy, that it wasn't helping the entrepreneurs. Of course, the answer is very clear, I think we'd go back a few steps, and then we'd have a harder job to restore the level of economic activity that we did before. It is before us now to focus on the future period, to continue with reforms, to be even more attractive to foreign and domestic investors. The fact is that Serbia is the first foreign investment in the region, so most of the foreign investment ends more than half in Serbia. What I always point out and what is important is that we define not only a certain amount of money to help the economy, but that this amount of money is directed right where it should, or to the most vulnerable industries, such as tourism, hospitality. Six months ago, we were working out a rental aid and the agencies, so, for those weak points, it's very important that they survive this difficult period. It also invests in the health system. Without a quality health care system, it is difficult to overcome any pandemic crisis and we, as citizens, must again be aware, to be responsible, not to burden the functioning of the health system, and so far it has all worked out in part and thanks to the fact that the health workers have indeed been committed and that they have brought the greatest burden in the previous year and a half, but we have to be responsible in terms of taking advantage of the possibility and to understand the importance of vaccination. We, also as a parliamentary group in the previous period and as a party, as the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, have appealed to citizens to take advantage of the chance that the state has given us all to be vaccinated, thus reducing the risk of further contagion due to the pandemic of the coronary virus. We simply have to understand that we live in the 21st century, that we have to give priority to medicine, that we have to give priority to science, not any conspiracy theories. We may be tired of all of us, the whole world, of this way of functioning, but once again I appeal that solidarity, responsibility and discipline are key to overcoming the crisis. Health comes first, but we need to find a way to help the economy, help and enlighten in these conditions. It's hard to find a balance here, but I think we're good at it for now. Speaking of building a railway, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will, of course, support it. We believe it is important that we invest primarily in infrastructure, roads, railways, telecommunications, therefore, everything that is beneficial to citizens daily and thus we encourage even development of all parts of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9464	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9465	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, Sinisa Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, the Law on the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Fiscalisation, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Temporary Register of Full-annual Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is paid by financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of the Kovid disease pandemic and the Proposal for a Law on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the OTP Bank for the purpose of financing the project of reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica-Horgos railway to the border with Hungary. Unique Serbia and the JS parliamentary group will support all four of these laws in the voting day, because it believes that all these laws further regulate both the fiscal, or the tax system, business of business operators, but also the business of business operators at the time of the Kovid 19 pandemic, but also the strengthening of our infrastructure and, above all, in this case, the railway infrastructure. Taxes have existed since the state. Tax is nothing more than a tool to fund the functioning of the state. Hence, tax, or fiscal policy, is an important segment of each country's policy. Many governments have been formed on good tax policy programmes, but also on inadequate and poor examples of tax policy by a number of governments and have fallen worldwide. Simply, the tax system has to be fair, it has to be functional, it has to be well measured to be stimulated, not brakes for economic growth and development. The tax system, I said, must be fair. After all, the story of Robin Hood is nothing more than a story of the injustice of a tax system in a historic period in England, that is, at the premises of today’s Great Britain. The fairness of the tax system is, in fact, the ability to balance the tax claims against all taxpayers. It's a very important thing about every tax system, that is, every tax policy. Of course, it must also be functional, i.e. to ensure a good coverage of taxpayers, it needs to ensure the quality and collection of tax claims, and also to provide sufficient resources for the work of the state. Of course, it must also be stimulating, because it needs to provide such a system, such an economic climate that tax policy, among other things, will stimulate the creation of new jobs, stimulate investment activities. We can really boast in this segment, because Serbia in 2020 was first in direct foreign investment in the region. Today, it receives around 60% of all direct foreign investment in the region, which among other things is an indicator and a good Serbian state tax policy towards economic operators. When we talk about this, it is not only important how we will provide funding for the budgets, for the state budget, for local budgets, but also how this money, obtained from taxpayers, is placed in the best possible way and precisely in those projects and in the most important needs of citizens of Serbia or citizens of certain local self-government. That this budget money does not happen to go into some empty projects, as it did in some earlier and during some former authorities, even in private pockets, but that money is invested in building infrastructure, in building highways, in building quality railways, and I will talk about it a little later, in building hospitals and for other needs necessary for the life and work of citizens and for the good functioning of the economy, state and society. I would point out on this occasion that I am particularly proud in the way that taxpayers' money is allocated to local self-government, where I come from, and that is Jagodina, because it is a good example of how money is saved and spent only on the most important and important things that concern the lives of Jagodin citizens. So, let's say, now it's up to 200 kilometers of Atari roads to be plowed by a fuck. By the end of the year, possibly in the spring of next year, all 200km will be completed and farmers will be able to go to their fields in a comfortable, quality way, they will be able to travel passenger cars without any problems. This is important, and we can also see it on the ground from the satisfaction of these people in rural areas, because this significantly improves the quality of their lives and improves the possibilities for their production and work. And not only that, there's no juice in the village, there's no street in the city that's not paved. We have completely replaced the water network in Jagodina over the past few years, removed asbestos pipes and placed healthier, better and better quality pipes and a complete water supply system in the city and we have provided our own resources, our own opportunities, good budgeting and quality distribution of money, thus providing quality and healthy, very high quality drinking water for the citizens of Jagodina. This is the point of budget spending, i.e. taxpayers' funds. The most important thing is to end this money on the projects that are most needed. When it comes to fiscalisation, the Fiscalisation Act provides for the introduction of a new fiscal model to which fiscal bonds are due to move from 1 November 2021 to 30 April 2022. The transition period sought economics, sought by businessmen. In that period, we will move on to a much more modern, much faster and much more efficient model of fiscalization. Namely, you, Minister, have already said that they have already started their applications via the IRS website. If I'm not mistaken, you said that a little more than 800 businesses, i.e. 1,400 sales points, have already been reported via the Tax Administration website. The process will continue. What I would point out here is that it is a good thing that these business entities will also apply for subsidies, that this transition from one fiscalisation system to another system of fiscalisation will not cost economic operators, that six billion dinars for these needs are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget and that each economic operator will receive 100 euros per sales place, or 100 euros per fiscal device. What you have to say here, and that's what you said, Minister, is that those who are not in the value added tax system will get 20% more cash subsidies because of the inability to use the VAT input and to compensate for that cost. It is very important that this system, the new fiscalization system, is very flexible, that it is much cheaper and that users as a fiscal device can use tablets, computers and mobile phones. In this respect, this system is also cheaper for business operators, as there will be no more annual payments to the service of cash registers, certificates, the system will be more efficient and implies and better work of the tax administration, but also better insight and the businesses themselves into their business. For these purposes, you have also set up a website “Be Efiscalized.gov.rs. “ It also raises questions and most important questions and answers when this process is about changing the fiscalization system. What I would point out in this law is that receiving data from fiscal devices will allow better analysis and easier detection of irregularities in the work of taxpayers, as well as new ways of controlling the issue of fiscal accounts, as the validity of the account will be checked by a single QR code scan on the account. The value of tax accounts will be able to check not only the Tax Administration, the tax administration inspectors, but also the buyers of retail facilities will be able to check, simply checking the QR code on the fiscal cut, and thus all will contribute together to respecting tax regulations and reducing the grey economy. Of course, traffic data will be obtained in real time, literally at the same time and will be comparable at the level of territory, industrial branches, times of issue, and will be available with the amounts of average traffic, which is important for the analysis in the tax administration risk analysis sector. So, this new fiscalization model also supported NAED, this new fiscalization model was also supported by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and I just think it's one process towards more efficient fiscalisation and a better and better tax system. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Temporary Register of Full-aged Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, paid for financial assistance to mitigate the pandemic of Kovid 19, I must say, and you yourself, ministers, have stressed that in the previous three aid packages the country is worth a total of eight billion euros, i.e. the state has made a great effort to facilitate citizens, business operators, functioning in this time of the pandemic of the Corona virus. It should be said that within all three economic support packages for businesses and citizens, employed somewhere by 174.806 dinars, tourism employees and the hospitality of 269.195 dinars, pensioners somewhere around 399.0 dinars. Business employees received three minimum earnings in the first aid package, 60% minimum wage in the second and three halfs in the current third package. What the state has done yet is to ensure in time a sufficient amount and a good choice of vaccines. I have to notice that we haven't taken this chance, unfortunately, in the best way and that we don't have a satisfactory number of vaccines administered to the second dose of the vaccine. It's just that we all need to appeal once more to the citizens being vaccinated. Why? Not only will we manage to protect the lives and health of citizens through vaccination, not only because we manage to protect the functioning of businesses and businesses, we also protect vaccines that have been given the most in this fight against the Corona virus, those who, for hours, days and months now and years, have been able to say they have been fighting in a bunch of hospitals, in a bunch of hospitals for lives and for people's health, which are doctors. On that road and the state has done a lot and will also do in the future, increasing the standard of living for health employees, but each of us should in some way make his contribution and show basic gratitude to all these health workers for all of what they did during the pandemic Corona-19. I will look again at the local self-government from which I come, i.e. the city of Jagodin, and say that we organised the journey of health workers to Egypt this April this year, in Hurgad, that in June we also organized the journey of some 600 doctors to Paraly and Greece, and that now from 23 to 30 October, we will again organize once again doctors from 20 medical centres and general hospitals from Serbia to Egypt, again in Hurgad, again in the organization of the city of Jagodina, and, of course, as the previous two trips have been, as all travel so far, and this journey will be paid by the funds of donors. So, in this way, but not only that way, here, October 17 is approaching, City of Jagodina Day, this year, every year, we have rewarded the most successful health workers, doctors, nurses with these awards of October and corresponding money, two or three, but this year we have decided that 50 health workers will receive a plaque of the city of Jagodina, i.e. the October prize and the appropriate funds. That's one way to show our gratitude, that's the least we can show for those heroes, those fighters in these difficult times of Kovid 19. When we talk about rail and railway construction, that part of the Subotica-Horgosh railway line to the Hungarian border, I simply think this is just one small piece, a drop in the sea of what was done and what would be done on the railways. Railway traffic is very important for every country, including ours, because it is cheaper than road traffic, because reliable and simple modernisation and reconstruction of railways is indeed one of the infrastructure priorities of our country, along with the construction of highways. In this regard, I also observe this point that we are considering today, as the state of Serbia will separate about 6.5 billion euros for the reconstruction of the railway in the Republic of Serbia, to create high-speed railways. By the end of the year, Belgrade-Novi Sad's fast track should be completed, it is planned and the reconstruction and modernisation of the Belgrade-Nish railway, where trains should go at about 200km per hour, also from Nis to Presevo at a speed of 160km per hour, and these are projects that make Serbia in the right sense part of Europe and part of the world. We can rhetorically talk about how Europe and the world are, we can rhetorically advocate, but projects like this and things like this really integrate us into that Europe and that world. Once again, in that sense, I would like to confirm that the JS parliamentary group will support all four proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9466	I thank the honourable MP, Life Starčević, from the JS parliamentary group. The next on the list is the honourable MP, representative of the Union of Duchy Hungarians, Akosh Ujhelji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9467	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will support the set of laws ahead of us in the voting day. In my presentation as the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I will look most at the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Temporary Register of full-year citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid for monetary assistance to mitigate the pandemic of the disease Covid 19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, as they will continue the process of easing the economic and financial consequences of the pandemic of Kovid 19 and ensure the continuity of the social programmes, and our fellow MP Daniel Djindjic will later discuss the second draft of the law. Dear People's MPs, given the situation that has continued and following the completion of the emergency situation in the Republic of Serbia in order to enable the economic consequences of the Covid 19 pandemic caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus, we will agree that a continuation of measures taken to support the population aimed at increasing aggregate demand and economic activity is necessary. As the end of 2021 approaches, we can conclude that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has responded in due time to the challenges posed by the global health crisis. The first and most important task of the state register last 2020, as well as this year, was sufficient and uninterrupted financing of the fight to preserve human health and life. As a result, the government of the Republic of Serbia has started and completed the construction of completely new hospitals, in order to provide the necessary capacity for patients whose condition requires hospital treatment. The basic objectives have been set by the adoption of an economic programme to support the population and the economy of Serbia. Thanks to the macroeconomic and fiscal stability achieved in the previous period, the Republic of Serbia had plenty of space to help the population and the economy reduce the negative effects of the coronary virus. As is known, a comprehensive package of aid measures has been envisaged and the positive effects of which have been reflected on macroeconomic indicators. The total package of measures to support the economy and population in the past year amounted to 551 billion dinars, of which 110 billion dinars were provided on behalf of the tax policy measure, and of the direct support measure to the private sector of 132.9 billion dinars. Dear People's MPs, our MP group believes that in difficult times we must help our fellow citizens, because the pandemic directly and extremely negatively affected every citizen's budget. However, thanks to the rational decisions of the government of the Republic of Serbia, an opportunity has been created to help all citizens and entrepreneurs. We believe that in these difficult times, it is not necessary to pay much attention to the opposition's allegations that the state is overly in debt, because whenever times are difficult, the state has to help the economy and the population, so that citizens and entrepreneurs can overcome difficult times as easily as possible. As seen from economic growth, the state will be able to pay off its debts in time. Due to the above, we believe that in the previous period the most important measures were: a 10% increase in healthcare workers' salaries, direct assistance to all pensioners and support to agricultural producers. Our parliamentary group welcomed the government's decision to give all citizens the opportunity to apply for 100-euro cash support in May 2020. That opportunity was used by more than 4.3 million people. In May 2021, all adults were able to apply for a new package of measures to win money in two 30-euro wars, one in May and the other in November 2021. Also in June 2021, an additional 60-euro aid was paid for all the unemployed who were registered at the National Employment Service, which is about half a million. In June, the vaccines received 3,000 dinars. According to currently available data, the fiscal deficit will be around 7% of GDP at the end of the year, but in our opinion, the opinion of our parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, such a one-time deficit is fully justified, as otherwise the economic downturn this year would be much higher, followed by a decrease in production capacity, including a decrease in the number of jobs. Also, without these measures, the recovery of the economy would be significantly slower. When we talk about monetary donations, we should also talk about the fiscal strategy of our country which otherwise foresees the principally good objectives of fiscal policy in the medium term. Following a strong increase in the fiscal deficit during the duration of the health crisis in 2020 and 2021, the draft fiscal strategy envisions a gradual balance of public finances in the medium term. The fiscal deficit is planned to decrease from around 7% of GDP in 2022 to 3% of GDP, and then continue to decrease to 1% of GDP in 2024. Such a reduction of deficits would reverse the current growing public debt path, i.e. public debt from around 60% of GDP is expected to drop to about 55% of GDP by the end of 2024. The planned budget balance would be achieved in an economically sound manner without sudden shocks. Controlling pensions and salaries in the public sector, reducing subsidies and some other current expenditure while the public investment issue would be maintained at a very high level of over 6% of GDP. Public revenue does not plan to increase taxes, rather if fiscal movements are better than expected it is announced to be used to reduce tax burdens on the economy. Dear People's MPs, our MP group welcomes the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of always helping our citizens when there is a possibility. We therefore support that pensioners will receive 20,000 dinars in February, March 2022, and in September this year they received 50 euros, according to Finance Minister Sinisa Mali -- because they are the most endangered. The pensioners will receive another 30 euros in November and then another 20 euros in December. The remaining adults will receive 30 euros in November, which they applied for in May and then 20 euros in December. The reasons for the adoption of this law are also contained in the fact that, in the post-emergency period and global pandemic, the activity of the economy is significantly compromised, and that the need for its revitalisation is necessary for the government's support. Dear People's MPs, we will vote in favour of the proposed law, because we are aware that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making efforts to preserve the standard of living and liquidity of the population, to preserve public health and continue to pay particular attention to social policy. In the voting day, we will also support all other draft laws on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9468	I thank you, Ifsha Ujhelji. The next is Honorable MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9469	Dear Chairman, Mr Krkobic, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, are on the agenda of today's session in a united debate, with four legislative proposals in the area of finance, financial business. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group - "Three P" in the voting day will support these laws and these legal solutions and other proposals that are at this session and will vote - for. Of these four legislative proposals in the area of finance and financial operations, the first two points are partly linked in their matter and relate to the process of fiscalisation, i.e. the modernisation of the system of monitoring and tax collection in retail trade. Amendments to the Fiscalisation Act shall be made to specify the existing legal text by clarifying that suppliers of electronic fiscal devices must be registered legal persons, or entrepreneurs located in the domestic tax system, i.e. they have a domestic tax identification number. It is provided that the issued fiscal account may also display a code for registered goods or services, if as such it is an obligation for fiscalisation to achieve better protection of the first and greater discretion of end-user data, i.e. customers, especially in certain service activities such as: health care of the Republic of Serbia. The transitional provisions amend those views relating to the start of the application of this law, so it is envisaged that the already adopted law enters into force in less than a month or 1 November for those entities that have already made the necessary preparations and have already prepared to enter into the new fiscal business system and that those who have failed to obtain new devices and that the deadline for the definitive transition to the new system is slightly shifted, i.e. from 1 January to 1 May of the following year. This was done at the request of interested entities. This is certainly one big job that we are about to do in a relatively short time, but the state plans significant financial resources to help, to buy new modern devices, which will make it significantly easier for traders themselves to work and reduce costs, without talking about how much it will speed up the work of the tax administration and raise the efficiency of the tax collection rate, from which we will all benefit. There are also amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration, where the existing termology used is in line with the new fiscalisation Act. In addition to these mutual coordinations, I would like to emphasise as a very important addition to this law in the proposed new Article 41b, which is authorised by the tax administration that, under official duty, instead of a taxpayer, it is possible for the taxpayer to file a tax application for contributions for compulsory social security for founders, or members of companies. For us in PUPS, as a party that particularly cares about protecting the interests of the pension population and old people, this is a very important provision which will aim to increase the rate of collection of these contributions, and thus to increase the social security of our pension population, or our oldest citizens. In the third draft law, it is also a matter of minor changes and additions to the existing Law on the Register of Citizens to be paid for monetary aid due to the pandemic of the Crown Virus. However, these minor changes will bring about a significant opportunity for all our adult citizens to be paid once more for 20 euros of grants in December, on top of all those already paid tranches to citizens who will reach a minimum of at least 180 euros per capita, and for most of them, that is, for most of our citizens, these amounts have been, or will be, higher. It must be fair and admit that few governments in the region and beyond in Europe have managed to show such a degree of social solidarity with their citizens, especially with the most vulnerable categories such as pensioners and old people and to make it possible to pay for our conditions, relatively high amounts of financial assistance, which is also a particular indication that the economy is good for us even after almost a year and a half of the root crisis, and we hope that these positive tendencies will continue in the next period. Finally, the fourth item of today's agenda refers to the proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the newly-saded OTP bank of 170,000,000 euros in dedicated credit for the purpose of the general reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica-Horgoš-Segedin railway line. It is predicted that these funds are being spent and that this railway is being completely remounted, completely replaced by all the tracks of the new, to do the electrification, to take out all the abandoned railway stations and the rail crossings, which will relive this time and direction in its full idea. Subotica, as the fifth largest city in the country, will become an important railway site. Our railways are getting new opportunities to increase revenue through opportunities to take over and part of freight traffic from Hungary and by restoring passenger traffic, the road allows our citizens a comfortable journey. With this, it is necessary to welcome and support efforts to clean up this roadway, although it is a railway that is classified as regional. Also, I will remind myself and once again take the opportunity to appeal that as soon as possible in the general reconstruction, the construction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway line, which is part of the main railway highway in the country, which is in an extremely poor state, given that the passenger train in the official order of driving takes as long as three hours to travel from only 90 km from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, without saying how much time is wasted because the railway is not electrified, so Nis and Dimitrovgrad must change the locomotives. Especially for Nis and the citizens of Nis, moving the railway from the city's central core is the most important project to be realized. We have been making some decisions in Nis for ten and a half years now, which we refer to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or higher institutions and ministries, to finally do this project, because it is very important for all the citizens of Nis. The shift of the railway, which we from Nis have repeatedly pointed out, is the obligation of the state, or the Republic of Serbia, so as far as the city is concerned, it has resolved its obligations in the part of the railway detachment project. We expect the Government of the Republic of Serbia to launch this project in an adequate manner and in a certain period of time. This must indeed become the first priority for our railways, when the work on the high track from Belgrade to Budapest is finally completed. I sincerely hope you'll start working on it as soon as possible. Dear Minister, I will take the opportunity to ask you when will be the reconstruction of the Nis track – Dimitrovgrad, given that it is towards Corridor 10, which is very important both as road traffic and as rail traffic? When is it finally planned to electrify it and finally move the section of the railroad located in the city's central core? There are only 14 railway crossings in the city that threaten traffic safety, but they also endanger the safety of all people who use that part of the city. Dear People's MPs, since it is important legal solutions, which should facilitate the functioning of our fiscal and tax system, but also help our citizens financially, I will personally give my support in the day of voting for their adoption. We at PUPS think it's a good legal proposal. The PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will give its support in the voting day for the adoption of these laws. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions to be discussed at this session and vote for. Dear friends and respected citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9470	I thank the distinguished representative of the PUPS parliamentary group, "Tri P" Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. The next president of the SPS parliamentary club, honourable MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9471	Thank you. Dear Vice-President Krkobic, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunately little 20 minutes to speak in one competent, qualified and adequate way about these four extremely important legislative proposals and I will, in my presentation, unmatched, of course, the importance and importance of the remaining two legislative proposals, but I will put the accent on the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the temporary register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of the Kovida-19 disease pandemic caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus and the proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the OTP bank a.d. Novi Sad. Let me start by making one finding. In March 2020, when, like the whole world, we faced the biggest health challenge, whose end then, unfortunately, was not seen, and today is not seen, we believed, as in other countries of Europe and the world, the opposition will not use this health challenge for a cheap collection of political points, that they will realize that we all have only one common task and one common goal that we must realise and one common battle that we must overcome and that the politicisation of the covid during the period of the pandemic should be placed where it belongs, which is in quarantine. Unfortunately, one part of the opposition does not choose funds, at any cost, to score cheap political points, and it is ready to embrace every vote, and even these anti-vaxers, actually those who advocate that Serbian citizens should not be vaccinated, and among other things they say that the crown does not exist, which is really irresponsible and extremely unserious for us. As I said, in early March 2020, we were first faced with this severe disease and insufficiently known world medicine. We had no idea what the situation of this pandemic would be and how devastating it would be for the health of the population, first of all, on the entire planet and then on the world economy, but also on the material position of individuals, the material position of families, or the standard of living. At that time, the government of the Republic of Serbia opposed the pandemics with packages of measures that had been remedied a significant part of the consequences suffered by the economy, but the state thought, as it does today, to support our citizens. So, when the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were most difficult, of course, speaking of these legal proposals, by discussing the package of measures that you have proposed and which are fully justified, she had one responsible and ultimately, I would say, a serious approach. I'll remind our citizens that last year, we've already realised two packages to help the total value of 800 billion dinars. It should also be recalled that, just then, the adopted economic policy measures minimised the decline of GDP in 2020. Thus, in 2020, the Republic of Serbia ended up with a downturn in economic activity of only 1%, which was one of the best results in Europe at that time. So in the period when it was most difficult, the government showed not only that the system could function, but that it could achieve good economic indicators. Also, in the labour market, despite herds, a record unemployment rate of 9% was recorded, compared to 2012, when the unemployment rate was as high as 23.9%. At the same time, in 2020, we had an increase in wages and pensions. So, pension increases corresponding to the Swiss model by 5.9%, public sector salary increase by 5%, minimum labour prices by 6.6%. So, we are one of the few countries that, despite the pandemic of the virus's coronary, despite the enormous problems in the economy, has put the accent on and kept on increasing the standard of living of citizens. I think that the government has made the budget for the 2021 clear course of action in the coming period and the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group thinks they are fully justified. The first course of action certainly is the fight against the crown, enough medical equipment, enough of the hospital's covid, enough vaccines. No moment has been delayed with re-treatment. Another course of action is the standard of living of citizens, and that is precisely through the increase in wages, through the increase in pensions, through one-time separations, and that is something that I think no country in the world and Europe has accepted so much of a burden of crisis on itself. The third course of action is infrastructure. So even though it's a pandemic period, life in Serbia can't stop. The government budgeted never more resources for infrastructure projects, 330 billion dinars, then a budget rebalance of 88 billion dinars. So there's no economics without infrastructure development. It's not true that it wasn't working in 2020 either. I'll give you one piece of information. I think they're from January to November, and you can correct me if I'm wrong, ministers, realising infrastructure projects totalling 146.7 billion dinars, which is 14.7% higher than the same period of the previous year. So the clear directions of action are. On the other hand, the key issues raised during the pandemic are certainly -- did we manage to save jobs? Yeah, we did it. Has there been a factory closure? No, it's not. Did we manage to save foreign investors, or did foreign investors give up investing in Serbia? The macro-economic stability was contributed by a major inflow of foreign direct investments in 2020, which amounted to as much as 2,902 billion euros, and between January and May 2021, foreign direct investments amounted to 1,274 billion euros. So foreign investors have not given up investing in Serbia. The general government's public debt was at 52% of GDP, still below the Mastricht level of 60%. If we add the country's total aid from the beginning of the Kovida-19 pandemic to today, it was first 800 billion dinars, then the third package of 257.1 billion dinars, which is 4.3% of GDP. So if we add to the whole of the aid packages that are directed towards the economy, it's about 17.2% of GDP to the citizens. I think and repeat once again that no country in the world and Europe has accepted such a burden of crisis on itself. I think the measures that have been taken are directed in the right direction, and above all, I think that macro-economic stability, the standard of living, and the economy are preserved. The economy remained stable and in 2021 we entered a strong, economically stable with full confidence that we would realise the projected rate of GDP of 6%. I don't know if you can hear me, but as far as I can tell, a few days ago you announced, that projected GDP rate by the end of the year could be even 7%, which is really an enviable and excellent result. Businesses have been stimulated by banking benefits to preserve their own liquidity, repay their credits, it can be said that the state has acted responsibly in all segments of the company and this positive effect is visible in the projection of further GDP growth. The economic background of such plans was also an additional third package that we adopted in the first half, as I said in 2021. Why is GDP growth important? Because without economic development, there is no progress in society. Economic growth means new investments, means new jobs, more money in the budget, and thus creates a space for new pay increases, pensions, or for increasing consumption which is a key driver and each sectoral production and market development in general. The draft law on the agenda today created a legal basis, as you said in the opening statement, to provide additional one-time assistance to 20-euro full-time citizens in dinar equivalent, whose payment is planned in December of this year. This is another measure that represents the continuation, i.e. the continuity of the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to citizens in relation to the Kovid-19 pandemic. When it comes to a concrete procedure to help, it is important to say what has already been said, I would not repeat it, it is greatly facilitated, because citizens who have applied for earlier aid 30 plus 30 euros do not need to apply additionally for this aid of an additional 20 euros. On the other hand, citizens who have not applied for help can now do so without problems, as well as those citizens who became full-time after 24 April 2021 when the law came into force. The deadline for application is from 15 to 30 November 2021. I made this purely informative and reminded of it once again because of the public and the citizens of Serbia. As the contents of the measures set out in this law show, Serbia continues to fight the pandemic of the coronary virus today, all in order to advance our economy and the growth of our citizens' living standards. In addition, it testifies to the government's decision to increase the labour price by 2022, which will be 35,012, which is an increase of 9.4%. Also, another extremely important and significant and brilliant result. Let's remind again that last year the state helped citizens with 100 euros first, and 6.2 million citizens accepted the aid and received 100 euros in aid. When representatives of the Fiscal Council come here, and we will talk to them again next week, because there is a report on the work of regulatory bodies, and when they tell us that this measure is unnecessary, and we are getting confirmations from the International Labour Organisation that this measure reduces poverty in Serbia, we can conclude only one thing, which is that they are representatives of the Fiscal Council against poverty reduction in Serbia. We do not say and we are not against, we do not want to put absolutely any pressure on independent regulatory bodies, but, let us, we have the legitimate right to have the opposite opinion and the opposite attitude and this is not the measure that Serbia invented. I think a number of world economies, like the United States, including Japan, have, I think, used a similar measure. So, according to us, it's completely justified and they can't say it's part of some kind of pre-election or election campaign. Here we are talking about Serbia's future and here we are talking about the future of Serbian citizens and their standard of living. So, on the other hand, this year, pensioners were paid one-time aid of 50 euros. All citizens on the National Employment Service's record received 60 euros of one-off aid. Also, all full-time citizens received 30 euros first, while 30 more will be paid in November, and by adopting this proposal, as I said, 20 more euros remain. The state has not forgotten what is of great importance and importance, nor its citizens in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. For all Serbs from our southern province, 100-plus 100-euro assistance was provided. Therefore, another responsible and serious relationship and confirmation that the president, the government and the National Assembly will always be with their people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, Serbia's president announced additional assistance to pensioners at the beginning of the year, of 20,000 dinars next year. Serbia's government, headed by Serbia's president, and this demonstrates continued concern for all citizens, for the standard of living of citizens, and enables responsible economic policies of the government, which result in positive economic flows, macroeconomic and budgetary stability of our country. In that sense, we are fully convinced that we are on track to realize the ultimate goal we want to achieve, which is Plan 20/25 or 2025, when in Serbia pensions will be 430 euros and when the salaries will be 900 euros. When it comes to the Kovid support of the state, we cannot without talking about the health aspect of fighting Kovid and all the efforts of the state to preserve the health of the population. We are a rare country that has all the vaccines and new Kovid hospital facilities, but if citizens, despite alarming data on the number of patients and the number of deceased in this new wave, do not realize that they are primarily personally responsible for their health and that vaccination can only avoid the worst scenario of life, the consequences can still be inconspicuous. If the state is responsible, I guess we citizens, if the state had one responsible and serious approach and initially provided four vaccines, after that five vaccines, if we allowed production, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia together with the President allowed the production of the Sputnik V vaccine on Torlak, if it allowed investment in Torlak, if we together with our friends from the UAE and China created a factory that will have the capacity of two million, it seems to me, production of vaccines, so that we can also help countries in the region. It's important that citizens have, let's say, that minimum degree of personal responsibility and that they realize that to get out of this situation they need to be vaccinated and not listen to any quasi-political parties, anti-vaxers, but listen to the profession, behave responsibly, seriously, rationally and listen very carefully to the instructions of those people who do this work in the right way. I want once again from this place to appeal to the citizens to be vaccinated, because in this way they will protect themselves, they will protect their family, but of course they will protect the people around them, all those around them, the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. Novi Sad for the purposes of financing the project, reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica - Horgos railway, the border with Hungary - Segedin, I would refer to the importance of this project with several aspects. First of all, to remind myself that Serbia and Hungary's bilateral relations are at an extremely high level, I would say the best in the last decade. Bilateral relations between Serbia and Hungary were established in 1882, and today we can define them as very substantive, intense and almost all areas of life. To remind us that the practice of holding joint meetings of the two governments is also established, which is of great importance and importance. In Hungary's economic field, otherwise Serbia's fourth most important partner compared to all the EU member states we co-operate with. The most important aspect of the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and Hungary in recent years has been the area of transport infrastructure, especially a railway which is the mutual interest of our countries, as both Belgrade and Budapest are significant railway hubs. Since I've overstepped my time, I apologize to the chairman, but I said at the beginning, topics are of great importance and importance, so it's 20 minutes to talk about everything. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group will support legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9472	I thank Mr. Milicevic, president of the SPS Parliament Club. The word has been proposed by the Honorable Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9473	Thank you. Dear People's Messengers, let me only rely on what the People's Messenger Milicevic said, to remind you once more. So our forecasts for GDP growth for this year are no longer 6.5%, but 7% and at least 7% this year. Let me translate that into numbers. This means that for the first time in history this year we will cross 52 billion euros into the GDP of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, if we're at 7%, it's going to be 52.4 billion of our GDP. In 2012, let me remind you, it was 33.7 billion. Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, in 10 years, less than 10 years, we have created almost 20 billion euros in added value, new values for our citizens, for our children, and we have just begun. After the difficult years of fiscal consolidation behind us, following the difficult reforms that President Vucic started while he was still Prime Minister, we are now in a situation where responsible, smart economic policy reduces the negative effects of the crown, and on the other hand we are entering the high growth zone of our GDP. So, the best days, the best years are just ahead of us. So, once again, for the first time in history this year, we will cross the amount of a 52 billion-euro GDP. Congratulations to all citizens of Serbia, and now in the coming days, that is why we are opening topics called further salary increases, further increases in pensions, new investments and all that we will talk about when we discuss the 2022 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9474	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear People's MPs, you have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which found that by the appearance of the death of MP Ivan Tasovac, the case referred to in Article 88 paragraph 8. The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point 8 and points 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Immunity Issues, finds that the term of office has ceased before the time of his election, MP Ivan Tasovac, on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Thank you. The next on the list is the esteemed MP Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9475	Thanks for the nice announcement. Dear Ministers, respected Serbian citizens, respected fellow MPs, today we have a very important set of draft laws in the area of finance on the agenda. On the one hand, the aim of the draft legislation on the agenda is to enable businesses and citizens to cope more easily with the consequences of the crisis caused by Kovid 19, while on the other hand we have a bill on further investment in infrastructure. Before I refer to the proposals of laws that are truly fantastic and which reflect a modern, financially stable and strong state like Serbia today, given that in the past ten days we have not had a session and that this is the first meeting of the National Assembly after brutal attacks, the dirty insult and swearing of the mother of the president of the state by one of Gilas's more numerous televisions, or by Mark Vidojkovic, but there is also vandalism in Novi Sad and a series of other events after these two that I have cited. What I can say is that as a citizen of Serbia and as a representative of citizens, at the very least, I am appalled by the behaviour of one part of the opposition that is under the conductor stick of Dragan Gilas. At times when our country faces provocations from Pristina, at times when we have various attacks from representatives of the government of the countries from our nearest environment, at the moment when we all need to show unity, when we all need to make a social consensus, you have the most terrible insults and swearings of the mother of the president of the state by, therefore, the leader of one of Gilas's numerous televisions. There's also vandalism in the New Sad and so on. It's very ugly to insult and curse anyone who thinks differently from you, let alone the president of the state who has over 60% support from the citizens of this country. It is very ugly to destroy anyone's property, so the property of those who only think differently from you, let alone the property of political opponents as it happened in Novi Sad, where Borislav Novakovic's son, former DS representative, and now the party Vuk Jeremic brutally demoted and broke the window in the SNS premises. I am someone who belongs to a younger generation, and during Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic, I have graduated from high school and college, but what I do not remember is that anyone in such a brutal way has insulted any representative of the then government, and today, as you can see, everything is allowed and no one has honored Gilas's fortune to condemn or dare God not to apologize for brutally attacking the president of the state. What I can say from this place is that if you don't like Alexander Vukic's policy, and you don't like it because you're not allowed to continue robbing your people and your country, at least ask yourself what kind of message you're sending to your children. Should our children accept that normal insults, cursings, criminal behavior and destruction of property are any other than them? Of course not. I really strongly condemn this kind of rhetoric, brutal insult and swearing to the mother of the president of the state and vandalism in Novi Sad, and I wonder if you are fighting for such freedom of the media and if you are fighting for such a free and democratic Serbia? You know, the Serbian Progressive Party in 2012 had neither media support nor media representation, but we had a programme that the citizens of Serbia recognized and supported and thanks to this programme, Serbia is today an absolute leader in the region according to all macroeconomic indicators. We will continue to fight for the results in the future. We will continue to fight for the benefit of Serbia's citizens, and you will continue to insult, swearing, mugging, and we will see how citizens will assess it in April of next year. When it came to the draft laws on the agenda at the beginning of today's session, we had the opportunity to hear from the Honorable Minister a detailed explanation of all the draft laws, therefore, all four. What I could conclude, studying the bill's proposals, and what I had the opportunity to hear from the finance ministry's representative, at the session of the Finance Committee, whose member I was, is that all the bill proposals are in the interest of citizens and businesses. When it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, the amendments and additions have three objectives, namely, the first objective – the termological harmonisation of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with the Fiscalisation Act, which officially starts with the application of the pandemic on 1 May of the following year, when it ceases to apply the Law on Fiscal Casses; the second objective, in my opinion, is to facilitate the economic situation of economic operators, which is equally important as others, is to continue to implement the measure of transformation of the Tax Administration, and so in the period from 2021 to 2025, and we all know very well that, with the reform of the administration, we have made it possible from the reform of 2015 to 2020. This year we have a fantastic collection of tax revenues, and that is why we will end up with a smaller deficit than planned. So we were planning a 6.9% deficit, and we're going to end up with a deficit below 5%, which I think is a really great result, given everything that happened during the previous year and what continued to happen this year. In particular, amendments and additions to the law provide for relief for taxpayers through the possibility of delaying the payment of interest unsettled tax liabilities. It is then possible to replace the means of security during the payment of the tax due and the settlement of the tax liabilities, and in which cases the tax administration will be able, under official duty, to file a tax application instead of taxpayers. Therefore, if the taxpayer fails to submit a tax application within the time limit prescribed by law, that will be done by the tax administration. Therefore, amendments and additions to the law offer a range of benefits for taxpayers, where the state does not deny its tax revenues at all, but makes it easier for taxpayers to make these same tax obligations and to settle. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fiscalisation Act, the objective of amending and supplementing it is to allow taxpayers to adapt gradually to the new fiscalisation model over a period of six months from 1 November of the current year and until 30 April of the following year. As I said a moment ago, with the application of the new Philsalization Act, it moves on May 1st, the following year when the fiscal cash register law ceases to apply. The amendments and additions of the Fiscalisation Act specify who can all be the supplier of an electronic fiscal device and are proposed to be domestic suppliers. Let me remind you that it is the essence of a new model, i.e. a new fiscalization system, to move from the current model of traffic recording through fiscal registers to a brand new model of recording, i.e. to the so-called. It's a linear fiscalization for the most developed countries in Europe and the world. What is very important in my opinion is that the application of the law in practice will not cost any of our business entities, which is the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, we will have multimillion-dollar savings on the annual level, as the minister explained at the beginning of today's debate, and these savings are being looked at in that we will not print papers, control tapes, we will not archive documentation etc. Some forecasts say we will save more than 10m euros annually. What is very important in my opinion is that we will all participate together in curbing the gray economy. So we'll have the opportunity to check the validity of fiscal accounts at the retail facility itself. So far, only tax inspectors have been able to do that. Now we citizens will participate in curbing the grey economy. Although the introduction of a new system will not cost any businesses, the state has defined over six billion dinars of subsidies for all companies applying and starts from 15 October to the end of January of the following year. Therefore, all entities applying will receive 100 euros per sales facility and 100 euros per electronic fiscal device, and those not in the VAT system will receive 20% more cash subsidies due to the inability to use the input VAT. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid financial assistance to mitigate the consequences of the Kovid 19 pandemic, what else can we say, except to thank the state leadership for the responsible policy over the past nine years. The management of the policy and the path of Serbia, which Aleksandar Vucic, has produced huge results. Thanks to such a policy, Serbia's citizens were among the first in the world to have a Swedish table when it comes to the choice of vaccines. We must not forget that in record time we have built three brand-new bird hospitals. So, the covid hospital in Kruševec, Batajnica and Novi Sad, we also finish Tiršova 2, we built a brand-new building of the cardiovascular institute of Dedinja, then we complete the work on the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, there is the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, the Clinical Centre in Kragujevac. My Toplica will receive a completely new health centre building that will be the most modern in this part of Serbia after 50 years. In addition to all these investments, both in the health system and in road infrastructure, and in the area of culture, environmental protection, etc., the state has not forgotten its citizens. This year, too, has identified significant funds to help citizens cope with the consequences of the crisis as easily as possible. So, aside from the 100 euros that all full-aged citizens received last year, the state has defined an additional 80 euros for all full-time citizens this year. We could hear this in detail from the previous speaker, from counterpart Milicevic. What I'm going to sum up and add is that all full-time citizens are going to get 80 euros this year. Our pensioners received 50 euros in dinar equivalent on September 22nd, so pensioners totalled 130 euros this year, persons on the National Employment Service's record in June were paid 60 euros each, for this year at 140 euros. For our oldest citizens, we plan to make them happy next year and one-time cash aid will be paid from the record 20,000 dinars, as counterpart Milicevic said for a little while, and our citizens living in the territory of the southern Serbian provinces have not been forgotten. They were paid 100 euros each, and those on the National Employment Service's record at 200 euros and so on. The figures may not be as important as the fact that the state today cares about its citizens, which is the task of responsible authorities. Someone will say that the state leadership enlists to the citizens because we have elections coming in April of next year. That, in fact, is not true, in addition to the facts. In 2014, we had extraordinary parliamentary elections, so just before the elections were held, the state leadership implemented fiscal consolidation measures, i.e. we reduced pensions and salaries and we received elections. What is the difference between the current government and the former regime is best seen through the payment of financial assistance to Serbian citizens. So, the current government paid more than 600m euros in money from Serbian citizens to all full-time citizens last year, not counting these additional 80 euros, while during the previous government over 600m euros in Serbian citizens' money ended up in the accounts of Dragan Gilas. This is the most obvious difference between the current government and the former regime for you, respected citizens of Serbia. When it comes to the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the OTP Bank for the purpose of financing the project of reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica-Horgos railway line, the border with Hungary, it is a very important project for our country. As you well know, from a country that was disappearing from the transit map of Europe until nine years ago, we today have a Serbia that is cross-border and at this point in our country as many as seven highways are built. By the end of the year, we'll have eight highways. A contract was signed last week to start the construction of an E-80 highway, a road of peace on a section from Nis to Merdar in 77km. It's this highway that will completely change the image of the Warm County, where I come from. So this year, the state has defined over 430 billion dinars for the realisation of infrastructure projects, which is a record 7.2% of GDP. Respected citizens of Serbia, roads mean life. The roads mean new factories, new jobs. One word higher standard of living. So, bigger salaries, bigger pensions. You should not be concerned when we have a bill on borrowing on the agenda, because the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is absolutely under control and at this point about 58% of GDP is moving. So, regardless of the crisis caused by the coronary virus, we have had the slightest increase in public debt compared to all the countries in our environment, compared to all European countries, and it is not the same when you're in charge of realising infrastructure projects and building a path, a railway, a home of health, a clinical center etc. And when you're in charge of paying off your pensions and salaries in the public sector, as did the previous government. So to recap, we're not in debt, we're cutting public debt, we're paying off expensive loans from previous authorities. Last week, we paid over $700m of the previous government's expensive loan with a $25m interest. So they owed us under unfavourable conditions and their interest rates at the annual level were, in particular, 7.25%, but they went up to 8%, 9%, etc. When it comes to economic growth, the government of the Republic of Serbia has revised the initial forecast of economic growth for this year because of the excellent results we have achieved and, as the minister said at the beginning of the debate, this year we will end up with an economic growth of 7%. I believe that this is a conservative method and that these are conservative predictions and that our rate of economic growth will be greater than 7%. In the first six months, we've had an economic growth of 7.6% and these are really great results. If we continue to grow at this pace and continue, we will have an average salary in Serbia of over 900 euros by the end of 2025 and an average pension of over 440 euros. At this point, the average salary in Serbia is 560 euros, and because of everything we had the opportunity to hear during today's debate, because of all the arguments that go in favour of the draft law on the agenda, the MP group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, will support all the draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9476	Thank you to my colleague for the inspired presentation. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first on the list is Honorable MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9477	Dear Vice-President, honourable finance ministers, Mr. Mali, distinguished fellow MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the city of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I have been selected from the list "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children", where here in the Assembly, together with you, and always as an MP of the United Peasants' Party, I support all of those proposals concerning all our citizens, our lives and to make it good for everyone in every part of our Serbia. Since yesterday, from October 4th to October 10th, Children's Week began, it is a beautiful organization that is held every year, under the slogan "The child is a child, that you love and understand". It's for all of us an important slogan, because on our election list there was a slogan - for our children. That's why we bring all these laws here to make savings, to give the future to our children, to make them better. Today's October 5th, it's the same important day, it's not recognizable by something that was in 2000, it's much more important to me that October 5th is the World Teacher's Day. Here, from this place, I would like all our teachers to do their job in the best way they've done, and we here together with our finance minister, with our Serbian President, with our government, will look to ensure the best conditions and the greater pay for our teachers and for our educators. We are witnessing that our country, now that it is the most difficult, we fight and advocate first for the health of our people, which is why our healthcare workers are provided with maximum correct profit benefits, with a tendency to increase these profits, our people are employed. One big and strong pillar for our country will be education. Without knowledge, there's no estate. So this is why I tell our teachers, our educators, we will certainly provide better working conditions and that they have better profit benefits and thus for our children, which teachers teach, it is a start for them, they build their way that will be in the future. Happy World Teacher Day, my dear friends from Svrlig, Nis, Subotica, Prepolje, wherever you are, you are people who teach and give first knowledge to our children. As an MP here in the Assembly, I will support all these bill proposals, because in this way we are now giving the opportunity to help every citizen in this difficult situation, through certain aid, through certain donations, and only those who know how to save, those who know how to work, and this is this Government and our Sinisha Mali, the finance minister, who is doing it excellently, headed by our Serbian President Alexander Vukic. Once again, distinguished colleagues, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will support the proposals of these laws. Once again, I'd like to congratulate our children's day and make our teachers more of a profit and make it even better for them. All the best and I think what we're doing is the right thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9478	I thank the honourable People's MP. The next on the list is National MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9479	Thank you. For the beginning of today, we are discussing amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, as well as amendments to the Law on Fiscalisation, and in this sense we should consider them as some kind of mutual harmonisation, given the fact that the provisions contained in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act are, in fact, not containing those provisions which will be in the new and proposed Fiscalisation Act, and thus, as explained in these laws, we are preventing the interpretation of certain provisions of the law, and thus creating legal certainty and removing concerns about its application. It is a very significant addition to these laws to facilitate compliance with the obligations of taxpayers by allowing the delay of payment to taxpayers, i.e. allowing them to postpone the payment of interest if they pay the sum of the main tax liability in full and at the same time enables them, if they regularly settle their tax obligations in the process, to postpone the payment of the tax. This will have a significant impact on the business of taxpayers, as well as on the planning of their business obligations, and hence some strategic decisions they will make in their business. In addition, one of the significant moments in terms of changes and additions contained in these laws is that which allows the bonds to move phasely to a new model of fiscalisation, depending on their technical capabilities, which will in particular reflect positively on those bonds of fiscalisation that traffic to several locations, i.e. several business spaces. As for the second point that we're talking about today, it refers to the measures that the state continues to implement with regard to combating the virus of the covid. We can say that the fight with the virus has not yet been fully placed under such a kind of control that it allows us and allows us to relax, and for this very reason I would appeal to citizens to be vaccinated, to follow the instructions that the state gives in this regard, above all I mean the younger population, or to students, because that is the only way they will be able to preserve their health and health of their loved ones. I would stay a little longer on students, or in this younger population in the context of vaccination, in the sense that we have to understand, public opinion must understand their needs and must understand their interests during this period of life. These interests are neither isolation nor social distance, but they are the opposite, socializing and enjoying everything this period of life carries. So we need to find a way to encourage young people to be vaccinated, through appropriate stimulating measures that will be completely understandable to them. I am sure that if these smart young people are explained in one rational way what the benefits of vaccination are, with the same stimulating measures in mind, perhaps some movie tickets or theater, that we will have a better degree and percentage of the vaccine of this part of the population. Public opinion, but not only that but also units of local self-government and various institutions, must follow the state's policy on the need to vaccinate as many people as possible. It encourages the fact that lately interest in vaccinations has been growing, especially the mention of the town of Nis since I come from it, at which point we have over 60% of vaccinated adult citizens and perhaps one such example should follow and encourage young people to think in this direction. As the last point we are talking about today, I would like to mention the Law on Indemnity for the purpose of modernising the Subotica-Horgos railway line of 70m euros. The project was declared of special importance for the Republic of Serbia and it is doubtless that it will also facilitate the transport of services in every possible respect, but also goods and persons in this border area. It is commendable for our country to work on modernising its rail network and for this very reason, but the numerous benefits that this railway can provide for our country and for our social but economic system, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support all of these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9480	I thank the representatives of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. The next on the list is Vice-President of the National Assembly Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9481	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, today on the agenda we have several legal solutions from the domain of finance. What I'm saying is that all the changes that go towards improving tax collection, creating non-tax will and discipline, are a good move to create a modern and efficient society. That is why in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support the proposed legislative solutions. Otherwise, this will be the first step in solving problems. With this law, we comply with the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration with the Law on Infringements, and the regulation of this matter by law contributes to legal certainty, to ensuring transparency in the conduct of tax policy. Taxes represent the most important revenue of the budget and without them, the state could not finance public goods and common needs, such as education, health, infrastructure, defence and the like. When I mentioned the infrastructure, Serbia currently operates over 300km of highways. The most intense work on the Moravia Corridor, where more than 2,000 workers were employed each day. This means practically that with all other construction sites, which have about 80,000 active in Serbia, there is no unemployed construction worker. I am particularly proud of the construction of the Moravian Corridor, as I come from that part of Serbia, from the Kings, and I know how much it means to build this corridor, not only for businessmen, but for the citizens that are over half a million in this part of Serbia. Otherwise, it is known that last year 18 billion dinars were charged more VAT than in 2019, in conditions where we had a crown, full or partial closure, and all the other difficulties we faced. Tax collection on additional value is a direct indicator of how healthy the economy is in terms of transport and maintaining stability of economic activities. We might not have had that if it wasn't for the help of the state that was given to the citizens and the economy. Today we are discussing a new financial aid that will be paid to our citizens. I want to take this opportunity, Mr. Minister, and praise the support of sports, especially the participants of the Olympic Games where the Fund for Winning Medals has been increased and amounts to 70,000 euros for the winning gold medal, and before that there were 45,000. Those prizes were paid immediately, they weren't waiting like a year or two ago. It means a lot to me as athletes, because I see the state appreciates all the effort and effort a athlete makes during his sports career. Otherwise, the Serbian government has already helped citizens several times, and now it is doing so with a new 20 euros in December. It's part of the third aid package for citizens and businesses. The state has once again shown that it cares for its citizens and that in all ways it is trying to help to feel the consequences of the pandemic as little as possible. In addition to the state, Unique Serbia led 100 doctors, nurses and medical staff in Egypt in April this year for seven days, then seven days in May in Greece, and was planned to re-run 114 doctors and nurses in Egypt on 23 October. It's one way to thank our medical workers for all the effort and for all the lives they've saved in this mess that the Crown has made. In just a few sentences, I would like to touch the reconstruction project of the Subotica-Horgosh railway line. Serbia's future is in the roads and railways that bring people together, boost the economy, bring new investors in, allowing new jobs to be created. The government's goal is to complete all rail road corridors that haven't been completed in decades. Modernisation of railway infrastructure must monitor investment in the education of workers and education of future railways. I would like to commend the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation between Minister Tomislav Momirovic in front of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Minister Branko Ruzic in front of the Ministry of Education, which speeds up the process of modernising the railway school, which will be set aside fivem euros. A railway training centre with the most modern engineer training stimulators will be formed in Belgrade, which will monitor the improvement of educational profiles in line with the future needs of the Serbian Railways. In addition to all the announcements that you, Ministers, have said in your presentation about highways and the modernisation of railways, I think this will be one excellent support for all future railway workers or railway workers who are planning to school. Since I no longer have time, as I said, the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9482	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague. The next is Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Stefan Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9483	Dear Vice-President Hardisic, the esteemed Vice-President Jevdić, Honored Minister Mali, Mr Stosic referred before me to all the legislative proposals that today are the points of the agenda, and I would specifically refer to the Fiscalisation Act. All economic operators operating goods and services to a small extent, starting in New Year's, and no later than six months, are expecting the transfer of traffic records of goods and services to a little from the fiscal registers to an electronic fiscal device. The draft law amending and supplementing the Fiscalization Act brings two to the eye of a casual but very important newspaper in the fiscalisation process. First, these amendments and additions to the law allow economic operators the transitional period from 1 November 2021 to 30 April 2022 to bring their business into line with the adopted Fiscalisation Act. Secondly, it is defined that the supplier of the software or hardware solution necessary for the operation of the electronic fiscal device can only be a resident legal entity, i.e. an entrepreneur from Serbia to whom the FIB has been assigned in accordance with the lists governing the tax procedure and tax administration. All taxpayers, i.e. legal persons carrying out traffic on a small-time basis expect the process of adapting the transition from retail traffic to small-scale fiscal cash registers to a fiscal system through an electronic fiscal device, thus achieving better control of the traffic carried out both by business operators and by tax authorities. The MEP Group’s MEPs consider it a good decision to extend the deadline for the transition to the application of the Fiscalisation Act, given that this is a new way of recording the traffic of goods to a small extent and that operators with multiple business premises have been left with the possibility to move to full application of this law. The proposed legislative solution allows for the improvement of the conditions for implementing new technical solutions for the recording of traffic to a small extent via an electronic fiscal device. Also, conditions are created that the bonds of fiscalisation in the most efficient, and for themselves and the cheapest way to move from the traffic recording model across the fiscal register to the new fiscalisation model of the registration of traffic via an electronic fiscal device. It is important that all these newspapers do not generate additional costs for citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also encouraging that the tax and other authorities of the executive authorities correctly suggested that only resident legal entities of Serbia can be suppliers of electronic fiscal devices, thus ensuring an adequate process of control by both tax authorities and by domestic operators who will be customers and users of these software and hardware solutions. This will allow for a safer process of monitoring and recording the traffic of goods on a small scale, since business operators in the fiscalisation process will also use their own electronic certificate to prove that this very business entity has carried out the fiscalisation process. Here is a particularly significant member of the 6th, which says that the fiscalisation officer is obliged to issue a fiscal account using an electronic fiscal device at the time of retail traffic, including the accepted advance for future retail traffic. Of course, we also support criminal provisions in this law. The fines are high enough to have both preventive and dissuasive effect for all those who wish eventually to tax evasion, i.e. to bypass their obligations in the fiscalisation process. In the voting day, the PUPS Parliamentary Group "Tri P" will support the legislative proposal and other legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9484	Thank you. The next MP is Daniel Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9485	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, among other things, we have before us a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by the OTP Bank for the purpose of financing the Subotica-Horgosh railway project, the border with Hungary, i.e. Subotica-Segedin. The proposal is necessary to establish conditions for signing a 70m-euro long-term investment loan between the OTP Bank and the Republic of Serbia. The credit is granted for up to 84 months at a favourable interest rate of 1.85% a year, plus a six-month euro. The date of payment of the war and interest is 15 April and 15 October of each calendar year, ending with the date of final payment, with the possibility of early payment with 0% commission if the borrower makes early repayments from his own funds. I would especially like to highlight the importance of this section for the citizens that we of the Duke Hungarian Union represent here in the National Assembly. After 20 years of work, in the past term we have managed to define this project and put it into a coalition agreement between the Serbian Progressive Party and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians. As a result, the Project of Reconstruction and Modernisation of the Subotica – Horgoš railway, namely the border with Hungary, has been declared a project of special importance for the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Law on Special Procedures for the realisation of the project, construction and reconstruction of line and infrastructure facilities of special importance for the Republic of Serbia. This share is of paramount importance to the citizens of the north of Vojvodina, and especially to those who work or study, for example, in Segedin or the surrounding area, and live in the Republic of Serbia. This reconstruction and modernisation is also extremely important because of the main project of the rapid railway Belgrade – Budapest for the very reason that this share through the Horgos border crossing will relieve traffic during the work on the new fast track section that will go across the Kelebija border crossing. I've had the opportunity to personally make sure that the work on this railroad is already in progress and that they're really progressing at a great pace. We believe that this railway is of strategic importance in connecting Hungary and Serbia and that it will bring real bloom both in economic and in any other sense. I must stress that our great satisfaction has already been started on the reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica railway – Horgos and I believe that, by adopting this law, we will allow the smooth flow of these works and the completion of the same within the deadlines, and certainly until the moment that the works on the second major project, the construction of the fast track of Belgrade – Budapest, reach the Saturday, or the state border, and provide the function of the tour and smooth work. It is also important to add that the Construction and Modernisation Project carries along the reconstruction and modernisation of the entire railway infrastructure, including the railway stations themselves, which will certainly contribute to the economic progress of the region along the section. The railway will also contribute to reducing the emigration of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as many of them will now be able to work in Hungary, as well as to return daily to their homes and families in Serbia, while not waiting in kilometers at the border. The Segedin railway – Reske – Horgos – Subotica – Chikeria – Baja is actually a regional railway connecting cities in the border area of Serbia and Hungary. The entire project includes the upgrade and reconstruction of existing railway sections, as well as the construction of decommissioned parts in Serbia and Hungary and this railway in Serbia and Hungary is a total length of 90.65 km and that is Subotica – Horgos, the border with Hungary and Segedin, a total length of 39.23 km and a share of Subotica – the border with Hungary and Baja, a total length of 58.42 km. There are two shares in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that is Subotica – Horgos - the state border (Resca) of 26.63km and Subotica's share - the state border (Cikeria) of 11.9km. Let me point out again on the basis of these facts that the project of reconstruction and modernisation of the Segedin railway – Reska – Horgoš – Subotica – Baja, in addition to the great importance for the citizens of the north of Vojvodina, is of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia and Hungary. The realisation of this project on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is financed in part from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and part of this loan whose approval is today in front of us in the National Assembly. To sum up, MPs of the parliamentary group, the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians, will support this bill in the voting day, as well as other proposals on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9486	I thank Mr. Giovanni. Now, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The first on the list is MP Radovan Aregina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9488	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about fiscalisation. The new fiscalisation law was adopted by the National Assembly at the end of 2020, and its full application is due to begin on 1 January of next year. A little more than a year has been left to bring in sublegal acts, and to adapt fiscalisation bonds to a new fiscalisation model, which allows for the use of tablets as electronic fiscal devices, mobile phones, ordinary terminal printers, along with the use of hardware and software components of devices, which means using the Internet, or online options to invoice the traffic of goods on a small scale. The law left the fiscalisation obligations with a period of adjustment until the start of the application of this law, but it was estimated that the period was short and that it is good to allow the phase transition to a new model of fiscalisation. Such a solution is offered, just by amending the Fiscalization Act, which we are discussing today. The bonds of fiscalisation are under the new law, not only of traders, but also of different craftsmen and service activities, i.e. fiscalisation is subject to all taxpayers, to incomes, from independent employees and taxpayers, who carry out retail traffic. I would like to welcome the solution offered to these changes, because it enables small retailers and craftsmen, who have so far had the obligation to issue fiscal accounts, in accordance with the Law on fiscal cash registers, to gradually move on to a new model of fiscalisation, which implies a non-small investment, is about the purchase of an electronic fiscalisation device, but also the purchase of software programs and normal internet, without which the new fiscalisation model will not be able to work. I would draw attention to the state of internet connection in many rural areas, where the signal of mobile phone is problematic. So that should also be taken into account, since in these rural areas we have shops, veterinary clinics, or pharmacies, unfortunately less and less. The truth is, I've been told that even in the middle of Belgrade, there's no cell phone signal, and I'm using this opportunity, and I think that we who come from border areas, and we're going 250km in one direction and more, we have the opportunity to know exactly where mobile telephony is and ultimately the radio signal is simply a Serbian failure. We know this in particular, it's a large part of the Gerdapian ravine, the Romanian signal is much stronger and we have problems that many people who come to Kladovo or Donji Milanovac get big bills at the end of the month. Why? Because they didn't switch to manual network search and then move on to automatic, and the Romanian signal is stronger in that area and then they go into roming and they increase costs and there's a confusion, and I'm finally saying some problems and it's too bad for the citizens. The second thing, it's very important that radio signal. I think we just have to step it up, because we hear signals from some countries in the environment to Jagodina, or if we put them in the center of Serbia or somewhere, and our signal doesn't exist at the border. I ask you all together, now and those who listen and those who in some way decide and those who can carry this, to establish that the simple radio signal of our broadcasters, our public service and others, that it is simply heard in the territory of all Serbia at full capacity, and specifically mobile telephony, because all these operators, we finance them, not them us. Please, just in some areas to fix it or get them some pens. Since we're all paying for some penales, some interest, or simply if we can't pick up then, someone loses their business, someone loses in another sense, someone might lose in love, but it doesn't matter to lose, and it has to be compensated. Please take this seriously because the problem of the Internet will leave a problem and that fiscalisation that in some parts will come up with certain problems and find some solutions that will be able to do so in a positive way. With this bill, the current fiscal registers, the bonds of fiscalisation that have more business spaces, or rooms, if, with the adjustment procedure started from 1 November this year, as foreseen by the Fiscalisation Act, the remaining old fixed cash registers will be able to replace the new electronic fiscal devices gradually. Therefore, they will not be required to terminate their activities unless they have replaced their old cash registers used under the Fiscal Cash Act on 1 January 2022. This is a good solution that comes out to meet small businesses dealing with the retail on a small scale to carry out this harmonisation in accordance with their capabilities. After all, the aim of the law should not be to make it impossible for anyone and any registered work, but the law should be stimulating, encouraging, what we do with this debate. The new model of fiscalisation, i.e. the collection of traffic accounts by means of a small online model, should also contribute to the fight against the grey economy and the wider scope of taxpayers. In this way, all are placed in a level playing field when it comes to paying taxes, and the direct takeover of data on an invoice by the tax administration will allow better records of the tax charge but also more effective tax control. When on a daily basis through the Single Information System run by the Tax Administration, you can know how much tax is charged, then, of course, it will be easier and planning to invest tax money in public expenditures of the state, and surely that one of the positive expenditures of the state is the roads that work throughout our country. I would like to commend a legal solution whereby suppliers of electronic and fiscal devices can only be domestic legal entities, thereby protecting the domestic market but I would also draw attention to the question of loyal competition and on this market, because we will agree, it will be a huge purchase for tens of thousands of fiscalisation taxpayers. On the other hand, the huge demand for such fiscal devices can also contribute to the development of domestic production. I'd like to remind you that we've once been ahead of electronics and electronic devices. We remember today on October 5th that the first color TV in the former SFRY in Southeast Europe was produced in Nis. After all, we are Tesla's people. Something that I was interested in fiscalizing to hear what small businessmen and some business operators who have up to 600 employees are having a personal relationship with this law that has been passed today about what we are changing and extending the deadlines. I think the best thing that I've picked up from them and put together that says, the good side of the new fiscalization that liberates the economy from keeping the fiscal tapes that had to be kept under the old law for three years, is being saved both on the tapes and on the space for keeping them. No more keeping a book of daily reports from the fiscal registers, which were printed at the end of each working day and entered into the daily report book. It is good that the law shifts the deadline for introducing a new fiscalisation, i.e. gradually introducing new fiscal devices, which significantly facilitates the application of the law. It is also commendable that the state has decided to finance fiscalisation costs with 100 euros per fiscal device and 100 euros per sales facility. The new fiscalisation will allow for more efficient control of the grey economy, as the state will find out more easily and faster which businesses do not issue fiscal accounts. I'm reading this to you what I've been told, because many businessmen want those in the system who pay VAT, who are keeping accounts, to simply have this unrealistic competition that doesn't do it in some way, and this law will remove it. I note that the tax administration has reformed significantly in the way of control and that the target has placed on those who do not pay taxes, but that things can still be improved for those businessmen who work legally, but sometimes they do not intend to make mistakes and miss. Inspectors and other inspection bodies engaged in the control of the business of business operators should be such that, when controls show that accidental failures have been made, they shall pay the control of the determined tax, and no misapplication should be made if economic operators correct irregularities within the deadline set and pay the control of the tax imposed. Of course, this does not apply to those businessmen who deliberately tax evasion or do not comply with the law. I'll finish up next. I think it's a lot of good laws, and one of them is the law that's being passed here, but to make him the one to whom it's ultimately intended, and that's, I'm going to call them, our little businessmen, people who own their own shop or family, they help themselves in some way by budget, they're employed by themselves, they maintain, they do that, they do that, etc. Many of these laws we make need to find a way to get close to them. We suggest that, through regional chambers of commerce, county principles, where there are all inspections, that they sit down and that certain things be explained and that they approach the end-user in this way, and not that someone uses a certain law that we bring here in the National Assembly with the intention of scaring citizens in a conditional election campaign. No, it's simply this way we can approach. I just want to finish with this and welcome the reconstruction of Kladovo – Donji Milanovac, since I was fresh this morning and ask the minister present here to take a look, there may have been a bad assessment of how much Donji Milanovac – Golubac will be investment, but that part too... Then we would open up and in the quickest way we could with a road that would be fast traffic, Golubac – the fire loop on the highway to Belgrade, that we would simply arrive at Belgrade at a decent time and without traffic. We simply must welcome the construction of roads that are in Timoška krajina, Negotin – Zaječar, Zaječar – Književac, etc. It's all part of what we're all doing here together by passing laws and this guy who solves tax policy from which we draw the most resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9489	Thank you, Mr. Aregina. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9490	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, fellow Members and colleagues, so when I see that today's quality amendments and the addition of the law are so high, I'm not surprised at the anxiety of one part of the opposition, those oppositions are senseless, barren, without programmes, without membership, without the support of the citizens who are trying to accuse the man who's leading all of this, who is doing all this, Alexander Vukic, and in one unspeakable way spits him and his family with nothing to do. I can see that these days Mr. Secretary Sinisha Malloy has started, and they're probably in the way of success. Successes, yes, because all these proposals amend and supplement laws are in the spirit above all of the "Serbia 20/25" agenda. Serbia strong, Serbia economically strong, Serbia financially strong, Serbia in Europe, but not that one -- geographically in Europe. We have always been in Europe, rather than the Serbian leader of this part of Europe, both in our behaviour, both in our work and in our actions. You know, if you don't have any ideas and you don't have anything bad to say about someone who works, who creates, then they'll be dealing with everything and everything, writing and teaming up with everyone in the environment and with some countries in the neighborhood, from the former republics of Yugoslavia the big ones, saying everything and everything, not offering anything. Unfortunately for them, our great joy this era will be remembered. Yeah, like Alexander Wolfie's era. And no one will be able to kill that. It's the only truth. Work and just work. I think as much as any of us can join, help, we won't be enrolled in those gold letters, and it's perfectly normal, but I think our mission and our goal is to get at least one small piece off the back of that great man's burden. I say big, because it's big and physical and whatever you want, and primarily historical. And history will say that. There won't be me either, there won't be a lot of you, when someone will talk about this time, about this time in which we create together with that man, along with all those governments since 2012, and I hope for the next 10 years. Not to speak without arguments, so that's exactly what's going on around my hometown, around the King. You have information on the media, and usually everyone talks about that part of the Moravski Corridor from Kruševac to Pojat, but I play the case after I travel daily to Belgrade through the village of Adrana which is close to Kraljeva, where there is one major construction site, which is working 24 hours, uninterrupted and where you already see the contours of that part of the highway that will connect there with Preljina, which will be the largest road point in Serbia by ending the Corridor "Milos Velika" and "Moorski Corridor". Not to talk about my heart playing out when I see buses like I used to see in the old Yugoslavia when buses went from some forest school, or boarding school to Magnochroma, Magnochroma, which was a laundry room for industrial development in the King, I now see the inscriptions “Leoni”. Many will tell me – ah, Leoni. There are always objections, although 5,000 employees will be working in the near future, there are not only workers with medium professional equipment or... The workers, there are economists, there are engineers, there are lawyers, there are fewer, quite normal, there were not many engineers in any factory compared to the number of manufacturing workers. We have projects, and here today President Vukic opened a NCR campus, where 85% of the employees are highly educated and where they are 25 to 35 years old, and that's what's happening in Novi Sad, and that's what's happening in Nis, Kragujevac, and I hope that's what's going to happen in my King. And when I spoke of successes, and of what they were hopeless and unsuccessful, who destroyed this country, I won't even mention their names, because they don't deserve to talk about them, I'm going to mention "Telecom". Did anyone mention Telecom until four, five years ago? Nobody. "Telecom" was a sleeping giant who did some work, the water grinded as the water turned round, and "Telecom" woke up and became what it should be. One telecommunications and media, but only in the distribution of media programs giants. When I say - only in distribution, I was wrong. I think that we are creating, and we are creating works of art, a large number of series for the last two, three years is behind the inscription that produced it: "Telecom Serbia", "Telecom Serbia", which is a trustee of this country, which is our engine and which once was worth some 800m euros, as well as I remember and nobody wanted to invest money, or to buy it, I think it's even very good that she and Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic wouldn't allow the sale of Telecom, or the majority package "Telecom". He remained in the 100% ownership of the state of Serbia, citizens and employees of Telecom. It is now worth about five million euros. Isn't that a success? So now everyone spits it out, and the Direkt Media, and the United Media, and the various owners, Gilas, etc. Their interests are at risk, while Telecom represents the interests of the Republic of Serbia. I will stand here because there are other colleagues who will talk behind me about these quality proposals, about Serbia 2025, about Serbia's future and Serbia's youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9491	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9492	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, four very important legal solutions are in front of us today. Two are highly intertwined and intertwined, so the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, as well as the Fiscalization Act. We've already heard that they complement each other, in a way. What is certainly commendable is the modernization of the fiscalization process through the digital system itself. Of course, this will affect the development of the economy on the one hand, simplifying the very procedure of bureaucracy that we have so far, on the other hand, certain that the state will also benefit from a more up-to-date and responsible approach by taxpayers. What is very important is that budget beneficiaries, especially at lower levels of government, are used and spent on local self-governments in one of the most rational ways. On the other hand, the help of the state to citizens, but also the sectoral assistance that has been provided so far since the beginning of the pandemic, is very important. In that sense, any support and this package of assistance that's ahead of us. What our suggestion would be and what the SPP MPs have repeatedly pointed out is that, in terms of sectoral assistance, maybe we should certainly think about helping businesses that may not have been involved so far, such as agricultural producers, cattle farmers, etc., but certainly we have no doubt that behind this branch and branch economy will be understanding in some upcoming period. Certainly, the rail modernisation project should also be supported by simple projects that are crucial for the whole country, especially for slightly more underdeveloped parts of the country... So I appeal this way that parts of the state that may not yet be covered by the railway, although it is good that we are working on modernising the railway in one part, to approach this problem as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9493	I thank my colleague, Pramenkovic. Next up is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. You have four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9494	We are facing today one of the points in which we are talking about modernising our railways and it is very nice and it delights the citizens, but I must inform you that the only city with 120,000 residents in this country that has no railway is the city of Novi Pazar, and the fight for railways in this city, in this area, takes an unmistakably more than a century and a half. The first initiative was to build railways through Sandzak, i.e. to Novi Pazar and New Pazar, which was launched more than 146 years ago, and when the region played a very important international role. The New Market Sandzak was also named as the Balkan window until World War I and has been launched since the Austrian monarchy in 1875 for the first time by the initiative to build railways throughout the region. It was meant to be a link between Bosnia and through this part of Sandzak to connect Novi Pazar, Priboj, via Uvec, and through Mitrovica and Pristina it is headed for Thessaloniki, i.e. Skopje and Thessaloniki. Between 1921 and 1923, at the time of the government of Nikola Pasic, there was also a ready-made plan in the Kingdom of SHS to build these railways. However, in the words, I must say that King Alexander was in agreement with this, and that there was also a plan, King Alexander, he says literally - Croats and Slovenians do not understand why 100 million dinars should be given to violations of Sandzak and Montenegro. The first serious project and step to bring the railway to Novi Pazar was launched in 1949 by the communist government, when it practically started building through work. Our local newspaper “Brotherland” then reported and, behold, I am showing here started works on the construction of the Raška railway – Novi Pazar. However, it all stopped quickly, and to this day we do not have the 20km of extremely important and vital railways from Novi Pazar to Raška. But at the session of the Assembly in April this year, Minister of Construction Tomislav Momirović pointed out that Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin, Pribo, Nova Varoš, deserve a much better infrastructure, primarily traffic, and that in the coming period, all prospects, will be worked by Raška – Novi Pazar. The project exists, the CIP did the project back in 2007, and it's some route that goes with several bridges, with a large tunnel of a mile and a value of about 45m euros of this project and it's something that will really lift the significance of this end. We, unfortunately, in Novi Pazar, Tutina, have not had any significant investors, no production jobs so far, and this is not only unfair, but also not a sustainable and one such solution, bringing the railway to Novi Pazar, solving the infrastructure, where this government insists, is the only possible way to solve these truly crucial problems of citizens living in this region. Of course, it implies that this government and our coalition that have done much to raise infrastructure is the one that will end this historic problem and whose mandate will be made from Novi Pazar to Raška. This will demonstrate the open desire of this government that all the ends of this country develop evenly and that this government cares evenly for all the citizens of our country. So once again, I appeal to begin this project as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9495	Thank you. The next MP is Nenad Filipovic. Your group has five minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9496	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers, are now on the agenda of two laws that essentially fill the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are the Fiscalization Act, the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, and on today's agenda are amendments and additions to these laws aimed at improving these laws, so that the JS parliamentary group will support these improvements in the voting day. The collection of public revenues is one of the challenges facing all countries in the world, and so is our country, but an even greater challenge is for public finances to be sustainable and predictable. One of the conditions of sustainability and predictability of public finances is to contain even more gray economy, to have more effective control and better tax collection, which is what you are trying to do with these changes and additions to the law. In addition to sustainability and predictability of public finances, we think that it is much more important to know where these public finances are being spent. where money is spent, or taxpayers' money. Kilometers and kilometers of new highways, miles of many regional roads, new high-speed railways, new hospitals, new schools, that's all that's visible and proof of where public finances are spent, or taxpayers' money, and that budget users are the ones who have repeatedly spoken in this House and the president of JS Dragan Markovic Palm who has shown and showed it in part. For example, there is now a project in Jagodina that is currently in realisation, which is building about 200 kilometers of ataric roads. It's a follow-up project from last year. These Atari roads are characteristic in Jagodina because they are made of stone material, tiny stone, and they are fucked. This path is about 20 centimeters thick, so it has a much better use of value, or longer term, so it doesn't have to change every year, like in many other local self-governments. As far as the new fiscalization system is concerned, we can say it's the current one. It happens in real time and that he is the engine driver of these changes. When we talk about change, when we say change, there's always a number of problems. If nothing else, there is a adjustment problem, and you are trying these amendments and additions to the law to make fiscalisation bonds the most effective way to move from the current fiscal cash register model to online fiscalization, i.e. through an electronic fiscal device. One of the benefits for fiscalisation obligations is to move phasely or phasely to a new model depending on technical possibilities, but thus to allow them to continue their business uninterrupted. It is very important that they continue their business here, and I am doing it right now because it has spoken of it several times in parliament, President Dragan Markovic Palma, and that is that when it is found that a fiscalization official breaks the law, whether he does it on purpose or not, whether he makes a mistake or a slip, it is not important, because all of this is under mistake, and every mistake is paid and we say that everything is OK now. So we ask the question, if that's okay and if that mistake is paid, those mistakes aren't cheap, because these stores are closed for two weeks? Does anyone think that the psychological effect achieved by this gives good results? And what psychological effect was thus achieved? It is to see that the tape of tax inspectors is placed around the door of that store, to cause a certain amount of fear among other people who see that such mistakes do not make and others, is placed on a pillar of shame, or not to say even more difficult to express, the one whose shop is in violation. Does this effect produce good results? We, then, close the stores, they don't continue their business, they don't, nobody earns, all the generals go on forced vacations, etc., and even those who prescribe the law, which is the state, don't take those taxes they need to take. If you have, for example, a family firm where we have two in general, they have to pay the fine, they go on a two-week emergency vacation, and they can just become even social cases. If there are shops, cafes and the like, with 20 and more employees, we also have 20 families left without receiving for the next two weeks, etc. The question arises whether modern technology should also be used there? Should we also make adjustments there and apply new methods, especially in today's Kovida, which, as we know, has in itself closed many of these shops for several months, some for permanent, some partial, etc., well, I think we should pay attention to that. If we look at Kovid today, we from Unity Serbia can say that we are proud to recognize that in this difficult time we need to help, especially those who are on the bumper, which are health workers, that we were already taking them to Egypt in April of the month, a health-political delegation of 130 people, that in June of the month we ran 600 health workers in Paralya, that on October 23rd until October 30th, we will again lead a delegation of health workers. (President: Time, colleague. I'm done. In the end, I would like to say that it is undisputed to suppress the gray economy and we have to fight for the man and for every citizen, because because of the small percentage of those who are irresponsible should not everyone else suffer. In any case, these changes and additions improve significantly existing solutions and the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9497	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. Next is counterpart Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9498	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, respected colleagues, citizens of Serbia, in the framework of this joint search, I will look back at two laws in the field of fiscal policy. The first is the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and the draft law amending and supplementing the Fiscalisation Act. Amendments and additions to these laws are conditional upon each other and represent somewhere necessary alignments in order to introduce a more effective model, above all, which achieves optimal fiscalisation, i.e. modernisation of the tax procedure and better networking of participants in the tax procedure. The essential objective of each legislative process is to achieve a higher level of legal certainty for legal participants and in this case it is a tax procedure which also needs to ensure more efficient and transparent tax policy of the state. One of the segments of the functioning of the state as a service of citizens who is often identified as a weak point is exactly that tax collection. Citizens often see the state as tax collectors and tax returns as some non-profit, however, it is absolutely not a real picture and therefore it is necessary to make the picture public and change through the visibility of the tax procedure and the professional work of the tax administration. There are postages of knowledge that taxes and contributions are the most important budget revenue from which health, education, military, police, social and children's protection and other public services are financed, as well as development projects in all sectors of life, but these facts are very often forgotten when citizens need to carry out their tax obligations. We often have to remind ourselves of that, because we are all citizens of Serbia and whatever business we are dealing with, we are taxpayers who have to settle their tax obligations properly and realize that we are from there and we are treating, and we are schooling and building roads. The public collection of tax liabilities through a transparent display of VAT on each purchased product has already brought the first phase of fiscalisation, i.e. the introduction of fiscal cash registers. The fiscal cash registers have essentially improved the tax procedures and we can say they have contributed to restoring trust, above all, in the way the tax is calculated and the level of the tax billing, so that fiscal accounts that are in themselves transparent, verifiable and secure are guaranteed to you by consumer rights. Of course, you have to take it, and it also leaves the possibility of getting an apartment or a car, if I'm not mistaken, in the game "Take the Account and win". The amendments and additions to the Fiscalization Act that we are talking about today are important for the application of the entire Fiscalisation Act that we adopted in 2020. Its application begins on 1 January 2022, so in three months and such a long period of time from the adoption to the law was left just for the adoption of sublegal acts, but also for the technical adaptation of the fiscalisation obligation to the new model, i.e. to the transition from the current model of retail traffic to the new model on-line fiscalisation, i.e. to the recording of traffic to a little over an electronic fiscal device that will be used by the fiscalisation obligation in the fiscal account issue process, while simultaneously transferring data on fiscal accounts to the fiscalisation management system established under the tax administration. The speed of adaptation to the new online model that implies both the purchase and networking of the relevant electronic devices will certainly depend on the technical capabilities of each fiscalization obligor, but if I am not mistaken, the reason for the law certainly stands, I missed your opening exposure, I suppose you said that it is possible to use the mobile phone apparatus as one of the accounting machines, i.e. for the new fiscalization model. Therefore, I think it is important to say that these amendments to the law, first of all, allow the bonds of fiscalisation to be gradually switched to this new model, i.e. they will be allowed to continue their business in a smooth manner, although the bonds did not completely switch to an electronic fiscal device within the legal period. This change will especially benefit fiscalisation bonds that have more retail transport facilities or have business spaces in several different locations, so they are unable to move simultaneously to a new fiscalisation model both because of financial and technical conditions. But again, it seems to me that somewhere in the interpretation of this law you said there would be some subsidies, I wouldn't bid, I probably missed that, too. Amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which are also on the agenda today, are being made precisely to comply with the above amendments to the Fiscalisation Act. As a matter of fact, the new Fiscalisation Act, which runs on 1 January 2022 and proposed amendments to the roof tax law, are part of the reform agenda of the tax administration and its role, primarily in the implementation of fiscal policy, i.e. they are part of the transformation programme of the tax administration for the period 2021/2025. a year that will achieve the final objective of reform, which is to create a modern and efficient tax institution that provides sustainable and predictable public finances, and thus real budgeting of the general government. It will be the tax administration which is invisible to the taxpayer, and is present and available at every place at any time and provides a digital service, fully adapted to the taxpayer. It will be the tax administration integrated into the natural business environment of the taxpayer. In a word, it should be a modern, precise, reliable state service that restores confidence in the fiscal role of the state. In addition to this, the reason for amending and supplementing the laws is the need to remove procedural and other legal and technical deficiencies observed during the application of the law in order to avoid, above all, different interpretations, and thus different application of laws that often lead to the unequal position of parties in proceedings before public authorities and in this case before tax authorities. These changes should also contribute more effectively to the implementation of the tax procedure and to the more efficient work of the tax administration, as well as to greater consistency in its application. In the case of amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, I would like to point out as a good solution that the possibility of delaying the payment of the tax due through the delay in payment of interest prescribed to the taxpayers due to the irregular settlement of the tax liability is made. This will be a significant relief for taxpayers who fully settle the basic tax debt because interest will be able to pay off. The amendments to the law also create a legal basis allowing the tax administration to submit, under official duty, a tax application on the accounting contributions for compulsory social security, for companies, and taxpayers when they miss the operation to carry out all of this within the time limit. In general, as observed by these legislative changes, it is made a contribution, above all, to legal certainty and to ensure transparency in the conduct of tax policy. The law creates somewhere equal rights and obligations for all entities in the same tax legal situation, thus achieving transparency in its application and equality before the authorities, which must be a feature of each legally regulated state, and the highest standards of the legally regulated state of Serbia are now being pursued. Not to miss the moment of such a popular October 5th date, not very important to me, but you will remember, I must say as a socialist, once Milosevic warned us of mistakes that may not be correct. Minister, you are one of the men who corrected those mistakes from the past, which the people unfortunately did not recognize when he gave his trust. Without ambition, to focus on October 5th, but simply because I think from this distance it all seems so pointless and ridiculous. Djordje Milicevic has already said that in the voting day we will support a set of proposed laws, so on behalf of the SPS once again full support for such changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9499	Thank you. Next up is colleague Ana Miljanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9500	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from our government, and many times so far, we have come up with a bill that continues to support citizens in order to alleviate the effects of Kovid 19's pandemic. Before I draw attention to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are being paid financial assistance to mitigate the effects of the Kovid 19 pandemic, caused by the Sars Kov 2 virus. I would like to remind all of our citizens that after 2012, it was necessary to do a lot to build Serbia's political and economic credibility, to bring finance into order, to reduce the budget deficit, to establish macroeconomic stability, to reduce public debt, to put inflation under control, to reduce unemployment and to start the economy. If all this hadn't been done by President Aleksandar Vucic, who, as the prime minister of 2014, began the transformation of our country, the Republic of Serbia would certainly not have been able to cope with the consequences of the pandemic. After a one-time 100-euro cash aid last year, which has been reported by more than six million of our citizens, the state has also made it possible for all full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia to apply for cash assistance at the end of April by mid-May of 60 euros paid in two parts. The first part has already been paid, and the second part of this financial assistance will be paid in November. Therefore, all those who have applied for this financial aid are in the provisional register and they do not have the need to register again, as Minister Sinisa Mali said, and those who have become full-year in the meantime or those who want to apply for additional financial assistance, which will be paid in December this year, will have the opportunity from 15 to 30 November by electronic means via the Treasury Office portal. As far as the Republic of Serbia is now economically stable, the best indication is that we have set aside over eightm euros in aid packages for measures to help our citizens and businesses through three aid packages, and what is very important, while not jeopardising macroeconomic stability. On the contrary, in this period of wages have been increased, so we have a plan for the average salary to be 600 euros by the end of this year, pensions have been increased, and how much we care for our pensioners in addition to the one-time aid in the past and this year the best way to speak is to announce to our president that 20,000 dinars of money will be paid to all pensioners at the beginning of next year. We are also going through the "Serbia 2025" programme to make the average pension of 2025 equal to 440 euros. I can only tell those who are troubled by Aleksandar Vukic, SNS and all of us here and remind them that the average pension while they were in power was barely 200 euros. Citizens now trust their country, because through all this they see that the state is strong, stable and safe. At the very end, I would like to say that the SNS, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, will be even stronger to work for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we are now strengthening our resilience, setting our growth on a healthy basis, designing sustainable goals for our development, thus creating macroeconomic stability and long-term stability for all our citizens. Everyone for this in the voting day, as well as my fellow Members from my parliamentary group, will support this and all other bill proposals that aim at a better standard of living for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9501	Thank you, Mrs. Miljanic. The word is Diana Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9502	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, during the previous year during the plenary session of the National Assembly, what we can safely say is that we have significantly improved the legislation in the area of finance. We have adopted important laws that regulate and improve the financial segment of our country's operation, which for the ultimate purpose had positive effects for all our citizens. At the end of the previous year, we adopted a new fiscalisation law that is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January 2022. The adoption of this law is the result of the need to adapt to business amidst technological progress, as well as other changes caused by this. This change is something new, something useful for our country, but above all necessary for modern society, especially considering that it's been 18 years since we passed the fiscal registers law that still applies. We all know that new times require and seek new answers, new solutions, and this fiscalization law gives a good answer to the state to combat the gray economy and is a good solution towards continuing our path towards digitisation and innovation and in line with modern trends throughout the world. With this in mind, by introducing such legal solutions, it confirms once again that the modern state whose goal is to combat and prevent the grey economy, which is aimed at an imperative economy, but above all to create one of these quality legal solutions legally secure and valid and transparent financial system. The fiscalisation itself is a process of better tax monitoring with the help of special software and, as the speakers said earlier today, several devices designed to simplify and integrate the process into one system. By introducing a new fiscalization model, it has multiple advantages and multiple benefits for both our country and our country's budget, as well as for all economic operators that will thus contribute to the better business environment of our entire country. What I would single out as particularly important, i.e. the most significant effect, is that this legislation is saving both time and money both public and private sectors, of course primarily the state, or the public sector through better and more efficient tax control, i.e. preventing tax ejaculation, but also our economy through the reduction of business costs that we had using old fiscal cash registers. First of all, I don't think we have any more defiscalization fees, no more storage and storage of the control and fiscal tapes, no more need for unnecessary administration, but we are also reducing the possibility of abuse, opening our market to be transparent and much more orderly than it was in the previous period. Simply put, this law will speed up existing work processes, improve and modernise the business process of the economy, and in the state budget we will be left with more money. As the minister has said several times, we will be left with more money to build new roads, new schools, new preschool institutions, and we will also step up with the modern world and contribute to each of our local self-government in Serbia being in a better position, i.e. that it can provide all its citizens with a better and better life. What is particularly important in these amendments and additions to the law is that the gradual or phase shift to this new fiscalisation model is also prescribed one period and six month period relating to the period from 1 November 2021 to 30 April 2022. Thus, conditions are created that fiscalisation bonds can move to this new model in phases, and this is particularly important for those economic operators that have several sales facilities, i.e. have more business premises, so that they can adapt fully and move to a new fiscalisation model in line with their willingness. This shows that the legislator took care of this law and that he had a high degree of co-operation and understanding towards the economy, left the possibility to adapt in time and thus to take advantage of this six-month period for education, i.e. as best as possible for our businessmen and entrepreneurs to prepare and to be able to adapt their business to the new model. Compared to these advanced legal solutions, I have talked about this several times, especially when it was on the agenda of the e-factory Act, we need to make sure that as soon as possible every place in Serbia, every village is covered by a telecommunications network and the Internet, and therefore our citizens from rural areas in their business can provide and adapt to use all the benefits and advantages of this fiscalization model. For this reason, I particularly believe that when applying this law, there is a need to have a special understanding for entrepreneurs in rural areas, where we can safely assume that information literacy as well as technical and technological equipment is not at an enviable level. In particular, it is necessary to take into account inspection controls, which will be carried out in the first year of the application of this law and therefore must have a certain dose of tolerance for this category of our entrepreneurs, to give them the opportunity to fully adapt. That is why we need a more flexible policy in this first year of law enforcement, especially the absence of harsh penalties and sanctions. The priority, in my opinion, should be given to recommendations and preventive action, in order to improve the application of this law. Also, as I said, the transition period should be used and particularly put into the education of this category of entrepreneurs, i.e. categories of entrepreneurs in rural areas in which they carry out their business and business activities. This law is a quality legal act, a significant step towards a more efficient and effective functioning of both the public and private sectors. This is the goal we seek, and through this legal solution we are closer to achieving it. Our SPS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to the Fiscalisation Act in the voting day. We believe in its successful implementation, we believe that both our country and all economic entities will have significant benefits, and that the ultimate goal will be to satisfy citizens with a better quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9503	Thank you, Mrs. Radovic. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9504	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, after this exhaustive debate is very important today to send a message to the citizens of Serbia, which is that, above all, in this part of the tax and tax obligations to the tax administration, that Serbian citizens not only as individuals but also as legal persons when they are part of a single economy, simply obtain the right to, through legal solutions, serve their debts. First of all, it's the part that relates to the possibility of paying off the principal and debt reprogramme, that's the part that relates to the part that's PIO's payment, if you haven't reported contributions to the founders of your company, the state will assume that it does so on your behalf and, ultimately, that's the part that concerns the means of the security measure when you give, say, the tax administration, during the reprogramme itself, that you can withdraw and change those security measures. This was obviously not possible now, and so far it has simply been strictly respected by legal solutions, which has been a result of you simply falling out of the reprogramme and then you have to re-apply and simply enter a non-comfortable zone, especially when we talk about the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also medium and large giants. Because, you know, the obligations to the state, of course, we're all aware that they have to be paid, but when you get a big burden when it comes to serviceing those obligations, then simply the economy starts to slow down its work. This somewhere really gives great support in this technical sense and technically gives us the opportunity not to really stop the economy and small businesses, but also citizens when it comes to these problems. When we talk about this fiscalization law, we passed laws at the end of last year, of course, obviously in the very application of these laws it was observed that many things needed to be improved. This phase of application means that the public sector will move this year, in the next public sector-private payment ratio, and after the third phase of the law is the application of this fiscalisation law relating to the private and private sector relationship, which means that the possibility of this transition is indeed a process. This means that it is possible for all to be adequately supported by the state, and we have heard that it costs the country this transition, has taken over on itself and thus means that the fiscalisation process itself represents a single digital transition which is a matter not only of our own and of European integration, a way of functioning as modern states, and especially EU members are working, and that we know that 75% of export coverage is with EU countries, obviously the possibility of modern business of our businesses, when it comes to exporting products themselves. So the fiscalization law and what concerns changes and additions now actually shows that the records of goods and services will be in a completely new modern way. Finally, it shows that the advance record will now be conducted in a completely new modern way, with certain software present and that what the minister was saying, the control of the functioning of capital market in business in general and in the private and public sector will be one transparent way, and all those outside that system are entering that so-called. A gray zone, or zone that is under the influence of the law, which must bear certain sanctions. Legal certainty is achieved, then transparency, but the right of equal opportunities that apply to all equally is achieved. This gives us an entirely new modern concept of the tax administration, which should ensure sustainable and predictable functioning of public finances. When we talk about this part of the interim register of citizens, it is in fact a picture of how much the Republic of Serbia has helped Serbian citizens during the pandemic and last year and this year, and simply, we have had the opportunity to see based on these results that the minister said last year direct budget assistance was 800 billion dinars, which is 12.7% of GDP. In this year, that third package was 257 billion dinars, which is 4.4% of GDP, which means 17.2% was the aid. But imagine what it would look like if our GDP wasn't today 52 billion dinars. Imagine that at the level of 2012, when it stood out, that I apologize, means 52 billion euros, imagine that it was 33.7 billion euros at the level of 2012. So, the overall functioning of our economy and what it would look like if we hadn't implemented economic reforms. So we couldn't deal with all the changes that took place in the capital market last year, we wouldn't end up a year with a decline in total growth, i.e. the decline in economic economic activity of 1%, but rather the decline would be, as on average, between 8% and 12%, such as EU members, or God forbid, as our countries in the environment had. We simply wouldn't be able to get out of economic reform for five years yet, as far as the budget is concerned, when it comes to salaries and pensions. We're talking about high growth rates today. Last year, in December, when we adopted the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year, project growth was 6%. At the time, we were fiercely criticised by both the Fiscal Council and many so-called so-called. experts from the elite opposition, who said they were good wishes, that there was no way to achieve it. Simply, we are now talking about real growth, meaning sustainable growth based on budgets and all investments that were projected by 330 billion dinars, so this year, when it comes to roads, railways and airports. So we're talking about having a real 7% growth this year. This means that the budget we are projecting next year will be even more progressive. This means that the growth of wages and pensions planned for next year will surely go much faster than many had hoped, when they told us last year that we had no chance of achieving a real 6% growth, with all those plans and projects that ended in 2020, which was the worst year for the whole world. What is most important to us is one of these railway contracts, the agreement of the Republic of Serbia with the "OTP" bank, which includes the completion of the Subotica-Horgos section, i.e. the border with Hungary, which refers to the Belgrade-Budapest railway line and which refers to the setting of the basis for so-called. The rapid railways that exist in all developed EU countries, but also in China, which simply exceeds all today, as I say, ideas and the part relating to projects belonging to the fourth industrial generation. That is why Serbia has chosen to entrust such strategic projects that are precisely the result of all innovations in the world to Chinese investors and perpetrators. This is what shows that our foreign policy is not only a policy in which we want to actively participate in European integration and co-operate with EU countries, but we want strong and strong co-operation with the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, because we work together in those areas where all these developed countries are best. Today when you see these results, when you show both the economic results and those relating to political contacts, you can best actually see that we have friends both in the East and the West. What we have is a great indicator of how much foreign investors are really eager to come here, to open new factories, was this exposure to the "Expo 2020" in Dubai, which the opening of the Serbian Pavilion has really been done by the president of the state, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, but also today's opening of the "NSR" plant that employs today in Serbia five thousand people, and of which 75% of the highly educated staff and which is in fact an indication that this company is one of the largest American investors in our country. I have to tell you that this company hires, when I talk about high education staff, not only engineers, employees and economists, but what it actually employs highly educated when it comes to software engineering, it actually gives us one big signal, but not just to us, the region, but to everyone in the world that Serbia is able to do with its staffs simply to do such highly demanding jobs in the world. When we talk about this high-fourth industrial revolution, this very digital transition, Serbia is really a country that can carry a shoulder to shoulder with the most developed countries in this area. Now there is a big question, how as Serbia, we have achieved such high results in technological terms, in economic terms, in financial terms, how we can deal with ourselves in an adequate way and with the digital, energy and green transition that the EU is propagating, and how we have come to simply in society so-called. opposition leaders under the patronage of Dragan Gilas and their media, companies he employs, in society project their impotence through cursing, through so-called. Creative rage, through violence, and that is one policy that the opposition ultimately wants to go to next election and sit here in benches and talk about programs? You, when you have on one side representatives such as Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, and Mr Vidojkovic who calls himself a writer, and in such a way he is able to present his policy to Alex Vukic and his family simply, and you want to talk about the progress of this country, how it is necessary to bring new investors, to open new factories, to provide new prosperity in this society, then you simply see that you have on the one hand people who think about Serbian citizens, and on the other hand people who deal exclusively with their own interests. Because they're all getting paid at Dragan Gilas for what they're doing, and they're all just dealing with themselves and their own interests in order to earn that salary and not choose the means at all what they're going to do in society. For them, that violence, the hate speech, and even we saw the opportunity to throw away, break the window, just doesn't represent any problem, because it's important for them to do it monthly, through their salary. Then you see in fact that you have no one to talk to when it comes to a certain policy of progress in society, that there is no consensus with such individuals and with such political factors as factor Dragan Gilas. This is where Serbian citizens must be fully informed of what is happening. Those political options and those political parties exist in a particular section, which are members of the opposition, which has something to say in public through their programmes, are always welcome to open the discussion as SNS, and President Vukic never considered it necessary to simply close the door for any talks. He always opened the door when it comes to certain issues in society and certain policies. But when you really have people who don't have politics and who choose the most terrible methods in their inability to come to power in a certain way, without a choice, without supporting Serbian citizens, without being able to simply compete in presenting their policy to Serbian citizens, then you can see that you actually have to lead one responsible policy when it comes to all political options, to give the opportunity in public to compete and to clearly tell the citizens in the next election that they should choose what is in their interest. One who really wants to support Serbia on that path of prosperity, one who wants to preserve state and national interests, and when it comes to Kosovo, and when it comes to the life of Serbs in Montenegro, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, that is a political factor that should really have the support of this people. All those who deal with violence, who are engaged in illegal destruction of the state, against the state's interest, should simply stand in a place where citizens will have the opportunity to give their own court. For this reason, surely these results, when it comes to the economy, bother people who do not support politics, not only Alexander Vukic, but Serbia and they directly undermine the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore should always be said unequivocally. Surely it bothers them and surely they use their media at all times to present their policy by attacking the system -- if I can't beat them, then I'm looking to drive them crazy with my insults and my misbehaving. But it is also certain that Serbia's citizens will easily recognise next year to whom they should support such public events. In voting day, I am sure we will support this set of laws, because it certainly gives Serbia a better future, as well as our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9505	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have two tax laws to call them that. One is about fiscalisation, and the other is about the tax procedure and the tax administration. It is certainly necessary to reform the tax procedure itself and the tax administration, to make it easier for the economy to carry out its tax obligations, for citizens to also carry out their tax obligations, and for it to be one effective and understandable again. However, whenever we discuss tax laws, the former regime has one other wish, once openly, once openly, that when the state collects its taxes, it is as if something is being taken away from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We always have this one tendency, and they're very skillfully avoiding showing where the taxpayers' money is going. You say it's for employees' salaries in the police, in the military, in the health care sector, in education, you kind of get into one of the clichés they expect. If you say that they make kindergartens, preschools, if you say that they make roads, clinical centres, you also fall into one matrix that they want, because our citizens essentially don't see it until the moment they need it. Now, we have here another law concerning the central register, which the government of the Republic of Serbia is paying primarily to natural persons to overcome the consequences of the pandemic caused by the Covid virus. The package, along with a package given to the economy, is about eight billion euros in the past little over a year. For the first time, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have had the opportunity to feel what it looks like when the state takes care of them and when you pay back some of the taxpayers and money collected from taxes to those same citizens and the same economy. Because, apart from the aid that the citizens received directly, the economy totalled, all the activities were paid out of minimum personal earnings, especially at risk of action and other types of aid from the state. That's where we come to the first problem, Mr. Minister, when it comes to the former regime, because they immediately set out to attack that aid we've been giving our citizens to overcome the consequences caused by the Covid virus. Just remember that it was done on multiple fronts, and even here, some of our state bodies got involved. Just remember that they said it was a waste of money, the hundred euros we gave to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Just remember that they were saying that jobs and production cycles in Serbia would be preserved only as long as the Governments of the Republic of Serbia are being measured and that this was in one artificial way done, inventing other models and all in one desire – to somehow get hold of the cash that is now the budget of the Republic of Serbia and to continue what they had to break in 2012 because they lost power. Imagine, Mr. Minister, that the government in which you participate as a minister spent eight billion euros on the economy of Serbia and Serbian citizens, and that Dragan Gilas could not get more than 100 euros as well as any other Serbian citizen. What a crime against Dragan Gilas, which is a crime against Solak, failed to scratch some serious amount of the eight billion euros. Of course, this is where the already tried method of work of the Fiscal Council will say that these results of the Government of Serbia and which are in fact to start with reform and re-industrization even during the first term of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic are not at all and that this is some mirage in which citizens of the Republic of Serbia live, and that the government has convinced the citizens of the media that they do not live as well as they themselves feel on their own. Then one crazy race begins to minimise the results of the Republic of Serbia. I have already said several times in my presentation, and so have my fellow MPs, that we have spent about eight billion euros to remove the consequences caused by the coronary virus. But, let's just say everything, we had to make that eight billion euros as a state, our economy had to make money, our citizens had to make money, unlike many other countries that have far, far worse results than Serbia, which had one good part of the consequences by removing the Central European Bank's money and through it were being helped. So we can't measure our results and their results, because in this unfavourable situation, too, we're much better off than we are using the right parameters, which is that we had access to those means that they had. But there is fiscal advice that will always try to challenge all these results. Having failed to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to live better than they lived during their rule, Dragan Gilas and the opposition of the former regime gathered around him, then moves into another story, Minister. For a long time, they have been trying to criminalise both Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here, we saw a few days ago and today, trying to criminalise you, I guess, to convince the citizens of Serbia in such a way that they don't deserve trust and that we need violent or any other way, just not by election, to be removed and expelled, and, if necessary, physically liquidated. But, Mr. Minister, I don't know about any country in the world where the government is criminalized and the state has a growth in economic activity, that it has an improvement in the standard of living of citizens. I may be wrong, but I'd like the former regime to tell me about any such state in the world, or Mr. Minister, I don't know about a country where the government is criminalized to bring serious investors into one of these countries and invest money. Serious investors, above all, see that in the country in which they invest you have the rule of law, because they simply believe that their assets investing in that country are safe and will serve the purpose for which they are investing. The former regime simply, that fact, in every way possible, tries to avoid and show that there is crime, corruption, and that citizens seem to live better than they lived during their rule. We're talking here now about some temporary registry we're keeping a record of a person receiving help to eliminate the effects caused by the coronary virus, but Mr. Minister, I don't remember any temporary or any registries that removed the consequences of their robbery privatisation. I don't remember any registers that were made to remove the consequences of the 2008 global economic crisis, which is a small baby for the economic crisis caused by the Corona virus, no such register. Because my God, Mr. Minister, if there was such a register and there was a serious desire of the former regime to protect the citizens, so you couldn't put Dragan Gilas in your pocket 650m euros. That's what we know, who knows how much we don't know. Be assured that as soon as we vote these laws, the next thing you know, the state again owes us 70m euros for construction and modernisation of the railway. Well, we want to be in debt and give them and give them gifts, as they took from citizens, em sold out companies, em was taken from the budget, em came cheaply to public property, they took loans to make them richer, and these loans were meant to bring back Serbian citizens. This is what we can compare and what is comparable when it comes to the authority led by Aleksandar Vukic, as president of the Republic of Serbia and the former regime that led, which is now led by Dragan Djilas. This is the reason why they can't and don't think about the election coming to power, but only on the street, because as far as I can see, I guess their very low popularity is again boycotting some of the next elections, and finally going out to measure in these elections and to see where they belong both in Serbian society and in Serbian politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9507	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9508	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers Mali and respected fellow MPs, and respected citizens of Serbia, as most colleagues today discussed the tax procedure, fiscalisation and the state's monetary power to alleviate the pandemic, I would place the accent in today's presentation on investment in the modernisation of railways and in general building in Serbia's infrastructure. Effective rail transport is a very important component, economic development at global and national level. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure are very aware of the facts, but also of the situation they have encountered and have already taken concrete measures to modernise railways and trains. The entire system must become modern, business-efficient and market-defined. Our country is small, but in such a geographical place that it is crucial to transport infrastructure, it is also our problem that Serbia has no sea, so we must compensate with river ports and railways. The Subotica Modernisation Project – Horgos was declared a project of special importance for the Republic of Serbia last June. By reconstructing and releasing this route, we will improve transport passenger connections in the region of the two cities of Subotica and Segedin and will strengthen ties between Hungary and Serbia. Friendship and cooperation between our two countries are the best in both recent and recent history, and we have to cultivate this in the future. For those of you who haven't gone into this project, I'll say it briefly. The contract provides for the reconstruction of track 26.7km for train speed and up to 120km per hour and reconstruction of cell buildings and 13 road transport levels and two underpassers. The railway was built in 1885 and it is necessary to rebuild it, as well as very important regional and cross-border railways. After completion of the modernisation and reconstruction of the railway line will be one of the most modern electrified European railway shares with the most modern accompanying equipment and signal and security systems. The contractors are also scheduled to complete this in 14 months from the day of entry into business, and a public call was issued in April and the Russian company RZD International was elected and the value is about 86.7m euros. As a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, we were pleased to visit, among other things, the work on the viaduct and tunnels in the Cortanovci that this Russian company is doing right now. It's a very experienced company our country has been working with for a long time. The same firm also worked on the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Mladenovac railway, about five years ago. It's as important to my fellow citizens as it is to rebuild the railway station as the oldest building in town. It is simply a symbol of restoration, because everything in this country was ruined and destroyed by those who were in power before the SNS. New Shinobuses have also been purchased, just waiting for the Belgrade City Transport Secretariat to reduce the number of stations in order to shorten the time of the trip and align the departures and so that a large number of employees, students and students can use the transport as well as the renovation of the railway from Prokop to Vuk, which would allow the final station, the Vuk monument, and not Prokop. I am saying this because it is of crucial importance for my Mladenovs, because about ten thousand travels daily to Belgrade and would not forgive me to talk about Horgos – Subotica, without mentioning our problem as a suburban Belgrade municipality. Those who were in power before the SNS, I really don't want to mention them and give them the importance, because I think they're politically dead, are without any desire to do anything for the benefit of society but only for themselves and they've always had little. So when we talk about investment, you always remember that when they did something, the idea of leadership was their own interest and never knew what the ultimate price was. But since we can't change the past, I prefer to talk about the future, about progress, about projects. In addition to this pandemic, the closure of the countries, Serbia recorded growth in the first three trimesters, close to seven percent of GDP, which is extremely high but also expected according to IMF forecasts and towards the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I would like to speak to you, Ministers, because many in Serbia are unaware of how professionally you are in charge of the ministries in these never recorded terms of the pandemic at least for our lives and closing borders, limited movement of people and goods, have managed to achieve and find a balance with professional and very wise leadership of the Republic of Serbia's finances. Serbia settles its obligations in time to provide assistance for every adult citizen, for pensioners, for businessmen to provide money for vaccines, tests, new hospitals, equipment and so on. To remind our citizens, vaccines are free, but not for our country, they have to be paid to the manufacturer. On the other hand, you continue to start investment, and when we are talking about new investment in railways, Serbian citizens must know that your contribution is really huge, because rarely anyone who would be able to outsource the budget, because the money is not unlimited but only well distributed and I sincerely congratulate you on that as well as your team in the finance ministry. Of course, I will be pleased to vote in favour of this bill, to be in charge of OTP Bank for the purpose of financing the reconstruction and modernisation project, because this is a task with meaning and what will be returned to us very quickly, and plus that it is under extremely favourable conditions because our country is highly quoted in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9509	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9510	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Ministers of Mali, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since my colleagues and colleagues have very well explained these laws, I won't hold back much on them, but let me just say a few sentences. It is true that this year's GDP growth rate will be 7%, which is an extraordinary result and more than planned in these difficult pandemic conditions. It is good that at the rate of GDP growth these two years, in these difficult exceptional conditions we will be among the three best countries. This credit for the Subotica-Segedin railway line is extremely important, not only in economic terms, but it is also important in political terms, but it also shows how much the country headed by our President, Alexander Vukic, pays attention to the construction of highways, roads, railways, bridges and other infrastructure facilities, namely how much it devotes to modernising the Republic of Serbia, and as we know the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President Aleksandar Vukic. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is October 5th, extremely important for two things. The first day is the teacher's day, as Mr Miletic said. I, as an educational worker and as a folk MP, congratulate all teachers, teachers and teachers on their day, teacher's day. Let me just address them with two quotes from two educators. A great Russian educator said: “If he were born 10 times, he would take a teaching call 10 times, for there is no better or nobler calling than it is a teacher’s. “ In order not to object to me being only Russian, then I will now have one Swiss, one of the largest educators of Switzerland, to quote: “The enthusiasm that I will be able to move my hands has given me so much strength that I can climb the highest Alps, just so that I can begin. “ He means to raise children. Not to be resented, another ancient Greek, Plato, told you very well known in his “State” part: “The state will not be harmed if the shoemaker has no idea about his trade, only the Athenians will be badly shoeed, but if the teacher is a bad parenting child, the future generations will be ignorant. “ That is why October 5th is very important. The second thing that is important, October 5th is very well known to us who will certainly be recorded in the darkest history of Serbia's newest history when it comes to parliamentaryism. Because, as you know, Dr Vojislav Kostunica did not win the election, Milosevic did not lose, there was no second round, because the five-irons broke into this assembly, set the assembly on fire, etc. Today, those of October 5th turned to the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic and some other individuals. I'll just answer them. For example, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, visiting on a TV controlled by Gilas these days, admitted that in October 5th she co-operated with foreign factors: "I was a participant in the 2000 DOS meeting in Athens on the destruction of power in Serbia. “ Dear citizens, they try to do so now, headed by Gilas. Another perjanica, 5 October, is very well-known to you, which always criticises the president of the Republic of Serbia, which is Dr Vesna Pesic, today turned to the president and said he was guilty of October 5th. Look at the wonders, he'll still say he's guilty of air. Vesna Pesic is famous for saying on 19 January 2000: "If Brnabićka resigns, you know, a lifelong Vukic is being prepared. There's no boycott here. Just a pipe to the head. “ A quote has been completed. That's what she said about the President of the Republic. Another MP here, but from the time of October 5th, unfortunately he was also the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, was the President of the New Party, and now he is leading him, because he has betrayed his new president, he has confessed and said this way -- I think the opposition now does not have to go and meet abroad, but can do so here. It's a finished quote. That's Zoran Zivkovic. As you can see, he's completely confessed. I'm going to quote another participant, unfortunately, he was also Minister Velja Ilic. I quote - We have established a team of young professionals, paramilitary units, the Yugoslav Army and young police officers, and we have coordinated this with the most exclusive units of police in Belgrade. We even had cops in a civilian working with neighboring cities. Complete quote, "The New York Times" on 9 October 2000. If anyone's interested, that 9th of October, I don't want to talk about him anymore, here's the magazine. Mr. Martinović wrote in one scientific journal, all in detail, we made nothing up, but on the basis of sources and relevant literature. So this is what citizens see, because it's what the same people are doing today, so with the same goal. I'll finish this quote to see what the CIA chief says about Serbia at the time. Dear citizens, pay attention, because that's what Gilas and Jeremic do now. I quote, the CIA set the election in 2000. US private organisations spent more than $40m in support of Milosevic's opposition, DOS, independent media and civil organisations. The operation in Serbia in 2000 was a successful case of our involvement in the elections. It's a finished quote. And today, those who negotiate with this other group are involved. That's what John Fisher, a CIA officer, said, head of Serbia's cell. As you can see, nothing can hide. Put history on the table. Also, John Fisher says – the business model was the handover of cash in cash to opposition leaders outside the state's borders. It's a finished quote. Gentlemen of the DOS, how much money did you get? Tell the citizens of Serbia, because there is no time. Dr. Martinovic and I would have told you that since we wrote papers on the subject, but since there is no time, then you say so. Furthermore, we trained 1,500 people who were assigned to the task of being in the polls. A parallel vote count, alleged voice theft was established and mass demonstrations broke out. It was a cause and the congregation was on fire the way it was. It's a finished quote. In order for me to no longer quote and speak by heart, it is to you, respected citizens around October 5th. Let me still say who gave the support to the five-octobar leaders. He answered, believe it or not, to you very well-known, who criticises both SNS and Aleksandra Vukic, academician Teodorovic. Imagine, that man supports violence. These days he said parents should beat their children. I quote exactly: "parents beat children on time", the president of the Committee of the Serbian Academy of Education said. Mr. Academia, in front of the citizens of Serbia, in front of the teacher from the department of all philosophy schools, I ask you - are children fighting or raising? Is that how you raised students? No wonder who it's from. The man threatened the actor Nenad Jedić only because a famous actor participated in the opening of the highway "Milos Great". No wonder, because that same man said on July 18, 2019 that the MPs in this high home were primitives, and that the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic was an rude man and that I quote, like Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini and Franco. The same academic said on July 22nd 2020, I quote, "Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia," a quote concluded. Take care of the respected citizens, this is the academic Teodorovic. He compared the citizens, your respected citizens who voted for Alexander Vukic, to the population of Nazi Germany and Hitler's supporters. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, another one has appeared these days, and otherwise always spits on the President of the Republic, he and his media, Dragan Gilas, who headed the 5 October. I'm not going to do much about it, because I often talk about it, but this time I'm going to quote for the citizens of Belgrade of former US Ambassador to Belgrade Cameron Manter, who said on 19 March 2009, "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade is only marketing and not real," it concluded, a prominent newspaper, on 30 August 2018. Mr. Mali, you've been mayor, you can testify, you've been respected, one of the best mayors, you see what the American ambassador said about Mr. Gilas. One more quote for Mr. Gilas. The late Verica Barac said, quoted: "Everything that is controlled by the media in Serbia controls Gilas, buys minutes in advance, pays in advance, and thus has a strong impact on the media. They controlled daily newspapers by buying space in the media and censored the newspaper," the quote concluded. So much for that part. Dear Vice President Orlic, from day to day, from month to month, year after year, we are witnessing the permanent, unseen, unremembered, brutal, street, miserable and miserable insults of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his family, his brother and his parents, directed through the media under the control of Dragan Gilas, by Gilas' speakers. These threats, or abominations, instead of stopping, have gone to pathology and are therefore very, very dangerous. I'll just have two examples. On December 18, 2019, Gilas' spokesman, Nenad Kostic, directed, believe it or not, an open letter to the president's parents, Father Angelina and Mother Angelina, through a daily list under the control of Dragan Gilas. Such public insults by the parents of a ruler have not been recorded since Christendom to this day. The goal of the open letter to the president's parents was to mentally break the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and step down so that they could come to power. Just when I thought the president's parents would leave me alone, I was wrong. Here is Gilas' second spokesman Vidojkovic, I will not speak the name, Marko, because it is a sacred name, he does not deserve it, who directly insulted the president's mother, quote: "Is that like N1 p... . You son of a bitch, she's disgusting, you hear this, and you crazy fool," finished quote, directly on the TV screen. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, there is a lack of reaction from the Solakov and Gilas media, because how will they react to their leader? Of course it's by order. Vidojkovic was also supported by Djilasov Zoran Lutovac, the DS leader, and the people call him that he has strayed into politics, so they say – that's what the wanderer said. The support of Vidojković was also given by Ms. Vodnelic, who said, quote, exactly like this - Vidojković cursing colorically, that you, respected citizens, understand the meaning of a vivid, complete quote and add, quote, quote, cursing, densely, finished quote. That's not a Latin word. It's a German word, and that means pleasant, etc. So she's using strange words to you so you don't understand what she's saying to that teacher, and it's no wonder she's been expelled from law school in her own time. Mrs. Vodaelić, do you know what cursing and insulting your mother means? It is one of the greatest insults of many peoples, so you give support to such a man and such insults. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, parents love each other with all their heart, parents are support in life, parents are partners and best friends, parents are a source and motivation and their presence and power, parents are the best and the best support in our lives, including in the life of Alexander, I guess, Vukic. When parents see that some journalists, even if they were charlatans, such as these two and Mrs. Professor, insult their son with the greatest possible insults, from the bottom of their heads, it is not easy, especially if they, such as President Vukic, were the support in his life and gave him strength and power. Normal journalists don't insult others, they don't underestimate, they don't curse anyone's parents. We are the ones who are lost and who are left alone and empty after that in their false glow, who fade quickly. You, gentlemen, have not been reciprocated by the same measure, for you have judged yourself, and we can only wish for you. Normal journalists don't curse other people, especially their mother. It's just the little souls and the poor souls that got their hands on some media, like you got Gilas's. You, gentlemen, have shown your disgusting insults to the swearings of the president's mother as much as a man can fall low, which poor and miserable curses can come out of your dirty mouth and how cataractly a man can look on those flimsy legs of yours. The little souls curse the mother and insult others, for in them is all unhappiness and unsettled; for you never loved, nor were you loved. What gives you the right to speak to the president's parents and swear to his mother through the media under the control of your Gilas? You, gentlemen, represent a small unrequited part of the lesion to whom nothing is sacred, not even a mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9511	Thank you, Professor. The word is Milica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9512	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are on today's agenda a set of very important laws in the area of finance. In my presentation, I will refer to the draft law relating to the loan needed to finance a project relating to the reconstruction and modernisation of the Subotica-Horgos railway line, the border with Hungary. In light of this bill, it states that part of this project is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget and the second part from the loan regulated by this law. These projects are very important, because they are a continuation of Serbia's development and construction, which has started since the arrival of SNS to power and President Vukic, Serbia, which was destroyed by every possible way and in all fields 10 years ago. This is a regional railway connecting cities in the border area of Serbia and Hungary. I think the importance of this kind of bonding is best known by people who live in places through the end by some of the railroads. Therefore, for Požega, where I come from, it is of great importance for the Belgrade-Bar railway, which has never been reconstructed in four and a half decades since it was built, until 2017, when it was reconstructed 77km from Belgrade to Valjev. It is very important and I am very pleased that the work is being carried out to examine the current situation in order to access the design and technical documentation for a future reconstruction. We count here and years, we count for decades, how many people in Serbia have waited to connect on highways, to connect with the railways, how many people in Požega have waited to build Milos the Great. We ask here very often why one bridge on Ada was more expensive than how much today is the price of the Preljina-Požega stock and how is it possible that the former tycoon regime pays one bridge on Ada more than 30km of highways with many bridges, the longest tunnels in Serbia, many overpasses? In addition to that, news came in the previous day that a country seriously punished the company that built the Bridge on Ada, according to cartel price bargaining. The fine was due to cartel price bargaining and amounts to 62m euros, and the company that built the Bridge on Adi has recognised participation in the cartel. And neither Dragan Djilas nor his employee, Nikezic, will say anything about it, of course. They'll only say when there's something you need to tell the truth. They won't say anything about it, because they'd confess to the people in Serbia where they got that kind of money in private accounts around the world. Staff member Nikezic will call to tell his assessment, which is recommended that someone become a minister and then bring up lies. But he certainly won't say that maybe this bridge situation on Ada was a recommendation for him to become perhaps one of the favorite employees of Dragan Gilas. I will also refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia to whom financial assistance is paid to mitigate the effects of the pandemic virus caused by the coronary virus. Because of the threatened activity of the economy, this measure is really necessary and our country has shown this additional aid package a high degree of responsibility and concern, and I will take advantage of the opportunity to invite all people who have not yet vaccinated to do so as soon as possible, to preserve their health, their lives, and the economy of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9513	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolic. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9514	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and fellow MPs, we will certainly, as my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic - To our children" pointed out, in the day to vote, support a set of these laws and I think there is little left to say and supplement. I think your opening statement was very thorough and detailed and that it was the only way to see how many benefits they were from this set of laws. There is little we can say, and that the citizens already don't know, and as far as helping packages and pensioners and every full-time citizen, and there is little left to say and to remind ourselves that we are one of the few countries that has had all the vaccines offered to their citizens for free, and I think that we have repeatedly stressed that we have dealt well and successfully with this pandemic that has come across the whole world, but also how we have succeeded in responsible behaviour and responsible policy, responsible financial management, that we can overcome this crisis very successfully and that we have this kind of growth and this kind of success and progress in every respect and sense. In addition, the fact that it has become normal for factories, new jobs to be opened in Serbia, that people are employed, so today President Aleksandar Vukic has opened the most modern technological campus in New Belgrade, where 5,000 people will be employed. According to some information, the age of the people working there, i.e. The years they have are between 25 and 35, which shows that 5,000 young people will remain in our country, unlike DS, when factories shut down and when more than half a million people are out of work. Even in the time of the crown of the virus, when the whole world is in crisis, when people are left without a job around the world, in our country, investment continues and new jobs are opened. Few people mentioned this information and few people looked back on that fact and it just shows you how used we are now to have new jobs opening up. This is an indicator of one new person and our country and our economy, but above all responsible policy by President Alexander Vukic and the SNS. But what has also become normal, and it should not be, is a kind of struggle of part of the opposition that comes down to the naked hatred and bringing out any untruths and increasingly frequent and hysterical attacks on President Aleksandar Vukic's family. I'm sorry, I'm not sure that any of the fellow Members of the People's Parliament referred to it today, but this campaign continued with a hysterical conference, and I'm deliberately using that term, because while you're presenting a series of lies and trying to maintain some seriousness, it was clear to everyone today that Marinika Tepic just wants to throw some untrue shadow at President Alexander Vukic's family and the latest attacks on his brother trying to pull some cheap political point for himself. What I'm interested in, Your Honor, I'm going to ask you to come here to the MPs, but above all, to the citizens of Serbia, I'm going to use your presence, so you may tell us some additional information, as far as the Mauricios affair is concerned. As you know, a few months ago, a bomb echoed one in a series of affairs involving Dragan Gilas. As journalists learned at the time, in more than 50 accounts in 17 different countries, Dragan Gilas scattered 68m euros in the white world. These accounts are from America to Hong-Kong, from Mauritius to the Czech Republic and to the day of today, we have not received an answer as to how, in which way and the way that the marifettelucs were served, the failed entrepreneurs from the Czech Republic, whose initial capital at the time of its creation of a new political career was 70,000 euros and the wife's house, used by the SAB car, came to a wealth of 22m euros only in real estate. So 22m euros only in real estate and that's not the data anyone invented, but he reported it himself in 2018 when he ran for mayor. Those 22m euros in real estate are not his only fortune. You can see that there are 68m euros all over the world. What Serbia's citizens are interested in above all is - how far did this investigation take and what are the latest results? For the simple reason why I'm bringing this up. Today, Andrej Vukic was subject to Satanization for nearly an hour. For months back, he's made up all kinds of lies and the truth that he owns almost everything in our country, and when you look at the truth, you see that this man for a dinar one, like Alexander Vukic, hasn't been rich since the SNS was in power, and that's true, and that's a fact. However, this does not prevent Marinika Tepic, an employee of the company at Dragan Djilas, from presenting lies and lies daily. I guess that's some kind of auto projection. He thinks that while he was in power he managed to provide himself with millions, and that his brother Gojko Gilas has as much as 30 properties in his possession, more than 20 apartments. These are the rest of the garages and the joints. Now, I guess with that auto project, he thinks he's gonna use some other position of government for personal gain. It's just amazing to him that Alexander Vukitch doesn't. I think the hysterical campaign against, above all, against Alexander Vukic, and then against his family is just a reflection of the impotence and one great panic that has gripped the ranks of Gilas's party, because they also realized that no one will bring them to power just like that, that they will not come to power on the streets or through violence, but that they will not come to power without the support of the citizens. They were hoping, and as you know, they called on the euro parliamentarians, calling on them to engage in inter-party dialogue. When they got involved and Gilas didn't fulfill his wish from the fountain, now they're no good to him either. I guess he realized that the only way he could somehow try to get to power is if he tried everywhere and tried to discredit Alexander Vukic and his family. The only question that comes from all of this is - how long will it continue with this sick campaign, because this has already become a practice? Every day lies are repeated and almost identically targeted by anyone who supports SNS policy or anyone who says Serbia is going in the right direction today. It's also amazing to me that some people consider it a legitimate struggle, and it certainly can't be. This hatred policy has also led to the son of that Battle of Thessaloniki smashing the premises of the SNS in Novi Sad and, behold, wonders that everyone gives him justification for it and is -- well, he's a little angry and angry, so his father is called stolen, that he stole it. Unlike Danil Vukic, whose father, without any evidence of any kind, without any gram of truth, is being attacked for everything and invented, Bora Novakovic was even in prison. But Danilo Vukic, unlike Bora Novakovic's son, has never shown this degree of hatred, dissatisfaction or anger anywhere in any place, and God has made it easier for me to join up to justify Novakovic's son, and so now he turns out to be guilty and the SNS window. The question is, what's next, what's someone from that part of the opposition going to do, and they're also going to justify it, and the question is, how long will their hatred go? It is clear that the plan and programme do not have, it is clear that the results achieved during the period they were in power are catastrophic and that they cannot compete in any way with SNS and Aleksandr Vukic's policy of results. I am also convinced that all together as a society we must stand behind that politics of hate, violence, lies and falsehood is not something that is necessary and allowed in our society and that we cannot deal with politics and seriously approach any problem. Dear Minister, in the coming period, I want you to put in front of us the next policy of President Alexander Vukic more useful laws for the citizens and that we all continue to make Serbia an even better place to live just the way we want for all of us and for all of our children. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9515	Thank you. National MP Mirela Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9516	I would like to thank the chairman, the honourable MPs, the honourable ministers, the respected citizens of Serbia, we have had the opportunity to hear in the opening statement by the minister of the topic of today's debate. One of these topics is additional help to the citizens. Given that the pandemic caused by the coronary virus remains unsettled, the state has decided that a continuation of the measure of support for citizens is necessary. By doing so, the state will pay additional financial assistance to all 20-euro full-year citizens in the coming period. Citizens who applied for 30 plus 30 euros do not need to register further, and those citizens who have become full-time will be able to apply from 15 November until the end of November. This is another indicator that the state has taken over the greatest burden of the crisis. It also shows that Serbia is a stable country with a clear goal of helping both the economy and the citizens to go through a crisis caused by the coronary virus together and that there has been almost no month in which no financial support has been paid for a particular category of citizens or businessmen. I would remind another Serbian citizen that the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted three economic support packages for the economy and citizens totaling eight billion euros since the outbreak of the coronary pandemic of the virus. It is clear to all of us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not worked hard in the past, we would certainly not have this kind of support today. Thanks to President Vukic's responsible policy and implemented reforms, we are helping both the economy and the citizens today. In 2020, we had the smallest drop in GDP in Europe. Certainly the greatest success of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the economic measures we have implemented and implemented during 2020 and this year. Thanks to these measures, we created such an economic environment in which the economy gained a higher profit in 2020 compared to 2019 for as much as 433 billion dinars. And that's how we kept our business, and we kept our jobs. Today, highways are being built in Serbia, factories are being opened, healthcare is being invested, new jobs are being opened. We've got an increase in salary, we've got an increase in pensions. In early 2022, our pensioners expect a 20 thousand dinar aid. Serbia's progress, investment in infrastructure, health care is part of a responsible policy conducted by President Aleksandar Vukic. What is most important is that today Serbia is building and developing, building and developing evenly. President Vukic himself has opened more than 230 factories throughout Serbia. President Vukic also opened the Regent factory in Svilinc two weeks ago. The Swiss company Regent deals with the production of electricity lighting, worth eightm euros and will employ about 130 workers and certainly this is not only important for Svilajnac but also for all of Serbia because Regent is a world-renowned company. Also in Svilinc, a two-bridge bypass on the Moravi and Resavi River will be built, and the value of this investment is about 25 million dinars. In my address, I like to mention the Shumadi I come from. Today, the forest is being built and developed thanks to the responsible SNS policy. Today, the forest is investing in infrastructure, in health care, new factories are opening up, new jobs are opening up. I believe that all of this is seen by the citizens and on their examples they know how to live today and how it was before. We haven't forgotten that during the time of Dragan Gilas the entire district was left without a factory, that the unemployment rate was over 25%, and today it's twice as small. They know that our country is respected today, our citizens know that Serbia is a regional leader when it comes to direct investment, economic growth and investment in infrastructure. For the first time today, we have a president who is in the field with his citizens, who cares about their needs, and that is what is most important, this security that our citizens have today. They know that this is the result of a policy conducted by President Vukic. And that is why our citizens support SNS and Alexander Vukic, because they are voting for the future of their children and for the future of their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9517	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2012, we found a house of bare walls, a land without a chance for the present and future generations. It's been nine years since. If I say, just so that Serbia doesn't remember that in nine years, it was a course, so it was between 117 and 118 dinars, and today nine years later, it's the same course. So the stability of the course is one of the conditions for the economy to work normally. Now, if it had been done by spending foreign reserves, he wouldn't have appreciated it well enough, but despite a stable course and not changing nine years of foreign exchange reserves, they'd have grown. During that period, foreign reserves increased by five billion euros. So they're now 15 billion, and they were somewhere in 2012 at a level of 10 billion. If I say that the gold reserves are 10%, that they have increased from 21 tonnes to 36 tonnes of gold, then it is necessary to appreciate the state's success during the majority of the ruling majority, which is why the opposition needs to serve as a parameter, which is why citizens' confidence in 2012 has increased to today by the ruling majority and the ruling majority's parties and why their chances of winning are minimal, or even a microscope can't determine what they can do in the next elections. What the MPs rarely say, that's how much pay has gone up. That's what we're saying, but not their impact on keeping the economy going, etc. So, the salaries were 328 euros, the average salary, the minimum wage was in 2012, it seems to me about 150 euros, today the minimum wage is doubled, and the average salary from 328 euros went to 560 euros. From 328 to 560, that's the difference between 230 and some euro. Our employees get about 460 million more a month than they got in 2012. In doing so, hundreds of thousands of workers got jobs not in the public sector, but in the real sector, and that's what drives our economy. So 460m euros more in salaries per month among citizens must be felt. That is why trust in the ruling majority and parties is growing. At the annual level, it means that employees get 5.5 billion more than they got in 2012. So much they can spend, they will not bring that 5.5 billion to Cook Islands and Mauritius, but mostly employees spend that money in our country and in such a way, if they spend what they earn more than in 2012, if they spend in our country, and spend more taxes of 1.1 billion euros in more taxes and tax revenues in the state register than it was in 2012, and 12% of VAT per 5.5 is a billion and 100 million pure income in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Since I'm related to agriculture, I have to ask, since lately about eight billion countries have spent on Kovid, I have to ask that the support of agriculture be greater, it is my obligation to the finance minister, because I am trying to present the interests of the rural population and farmers, which, as in the EU, depends on whether there will be incentives, whether they will be paid, to what extent and to what extent they will be paid over the year. This is why farming today is a little bit better than in 2012, it's cheaper, but it's still like licking honey off a thorn. So it depends very much on the natural conditions, on the price of repromation, etc. which is growing and I think it is time to think about increasing incentives since they are smaller than three to five times, rather than in EU countries. Supporting agriculture is not only the support of farmers, it is the support and processing industry that gets cheaper raw materials and becomes more competitive in domestic and surrounding markets. So it can make a competitive product, primarily for regional markets, but also for EU markets, Russia, China, the East, etc. Incentives should be raised in agriculture in proportion to the economic power of the country, since this guarantees the food security of the population, and on the other hand, I call it, the country's food sovereignty, because the country that has excess food in these conditions, certainly and politically in this region dominates those, relatively dominant, has some advantage over those who do not have that food, who must supply some of the population from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I think this advantage should be used more, the sweetest fruits of its garden. One with food security and food sovereignty, along with vaccines guaranteeing health sovereignty, new equipment, etc. Serbia and how they place a more favourable position compared to the countries in the region that I must admit, there is not much excessive love for Serbia, but love for food from Serbia and how they cherish, along with the language of hatred that comes from some surrounding former Yugoslav republics who, after the break of Yugoslavia, want to break the Republic of Serbia. I would ask the finance minister to find space in the next draft budget to see if the debts now recorded according to the incentives in agriculture are analising and to try to make relative incomes in the Republic budget, we try to increase, given that the issue of agriculture is no longer just a matter of agriculture, but also demographics, the survival of the rural population in rural areas, because if agricultural production is not paid, they will move to larger cities and we will relax certain territories. If our people leave these territories, if in a certain way, we do not assign them through incentives in agriculture, then if we empty these territories as in Kosovo, some other people will come and settle that territory, and therefore the issue of agriculture is not only a question of agricultural viability, it is not just a question of agriculture, but rather of demographics, security and sovereignty of the country. My appeal is to encourage you to the relatively economic power of the country, which is growing, to improve, because, let me tell you, agriculture is not just the cost of the budget. The farm is where the arrivals come from. When we buy diesel for agriculture we pay excise, excise is a luxury tax, we pay in agricultural production excise and VAT 86 dinars in liters. About 250 million gallons of diesel is spent in agriculture, VAT-only income and diesel excise is somewhere around 20 billion dinars, which is half the amount intended for incentives. There are taxes on machinery, spare parts, fertilisers, plant protection and other implants in agriculture, so as to rent agricultural land, so that from agriculture, from production to republican budgets lies more money than is returned to agriculture. That's why I'd like the agrarian budget in the next draft budget to arrive in a few weeks' time and try to find money for those parts of subsidies that are not paid to farmers. It's especially sensitive because if we lose some of the cattle' throats, it takes two, three years for the livestock fund to be renewed, and we should use the plant potential precisely for livestock farming, and through the processing of meat, milk, eggs and plant production, and thus increase even more gross domestic products through the processing industry, as well as public revenues that flow through this activity into the republican budget. It's mutually bonded. So, they would lose nothing if they raised incentives in agriculture for something, so they would guarantee our population, which I have already said, food security, but would protect the state from the possible new military and economic pressures that the country can be exposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9519	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9520	I thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am today going to talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are being paid financial assistance to alleviate the effects of the Covid 19 pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Why? Because I think the health of our citizens is the most important thing right now. Everything can be talked about when we're healthy. When a man is healthy, he has 100 wishes. When a man is healthy, works and attracts, he supports his family. When a man is sick, he only has one wish, and that's to heal. Since only a few months ago we were the fourth country in the world by vaccination, because we had four types of vaccines, four species. When one Sweden, highly developed, had none or one, we had four, and we were fourth in the world by the number of vaccines, we're on the seal today. Today we're, I mean, the fourth one in non-vaccination, shame on one. Why? Well, probably because the vaccines are free. If it were 10, 20, 50 or 100 euros, it would probably be the turn. If we didn't have them, we'd say that this government is no good, that the president is, well, unable to get vaccines, and since he's capable and since this government is capable and since we've got the vaccines, we're now stuck. And why is that? Because we're unaware of what we're doing. It's not clear to me that one of Sweden's most recent vaccinations is today among the first in the world. In just a few months as they received vaccines from their government, their president said it was very important for the state, that it wouldn't stop the economy, that people should help their country, 83% were vaccinated, and with 20% and some percent in a month we burned to 58 vaccines after, here's how many months. I don't get it. Guys, there should be consciousness, let's help this country, this will never stop if everything goes in circles. Yesterday, the numbers regarding the 20,000-tested 5,980-infected coronary virus. What would we do if we hadn't built three birds of a new hospital capacity of 6,000 beds? What would they do? People would die. Fifty people died, one man when he died is a lot, not 50 people. Be aware of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the vaccine is for your own good. Two hundred fifty people on the respirator, you know what it means when someone reaches the respirator. It's not a good story, that's why by speaking today about this law for the simple reason that I love this country and I love all the people who live in it and I want us to be a healthy nation, I want this monster to pass. I'm talking about Sweden again, why? Because they only have distance, they're infected, 83% are vaccinated, and we have 58% because of the anti-vaxer lobby that, I think those who tell the story that we shouldn't vaccinate, among the first vaccines. It's about the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it's about the future. Does anyone know how much it costs a patient who gets to the hospital and how much oxygen he needs, how much does that oxygen cost? One man I know says, so I pay social services, contributions and all that. Yeah, you're paying a friend, but that costs ten and fifty of what you think. Let's figure out how many people are sick today. I can't wait for this monster to stop, let's go live normal, and we'll only be able to vaccinate. Doctors were first vaccinated here in this House. I respect doctors, if the doctors have been vaccinated, we should all vaccinate. I hear a story, who knows what they put in us, who knows what is in the vaccines. So what can it be? Let's see if anyone knows what they're putting in there, what can they do? Either a dead virus or a live virus, a small virus that will create our immune bodies to defend our organism. What are we supposed to do? This will take a hundred years if we go in circles. This isn't how it works. That is why I appeal once again to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be vaccinated. Listen to the doctors. The doctor's mass has been vaccinated. Let those who aren't. Well said Dr. Schekler, we should be like the French and the Germans, so those who are on state mangers if they don't get vaccinated, should go into private business, open up, and treat unvaccinated, so we'll protect these people who love to live, who love their children. Let's move on. It's always hard for me to talk because I lost friends, and some people died because they didn't have a vaccine. We've got vaccines now, so we don't want to vaccinate. As far as this law is concerned, all full-year citizens will receive 20-euro aid in dinar versus value. Of course, everyone has to apply from 15 November to 30 December. Whoever logs in will get it. We even have since 24 April, who has since become a minor, even they will receive 20 euros. Not only that, this government does, works with the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, let's just remember what kind of help the government and the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has given. Eight billion euros went to small and medium-sized enterprises and help citizens. That's how it is, and I'm always glad when I can talk about help, because the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and everything about them, I guess we're in the service of citizens, that was our primary goal, that was our programme 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, when we came to this Assembly in 2010, we won the municipality of Voždovac, Zemun and many other municipalities, so I always mention that in 2010. Now let's remember what we've done for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This year, pensioners were given 60 plus 50 euros, then unemployed plus 60 euros, so what was fascinating to me to citizens living in our southern province of KIM, they all got, full-time citizens per 100 euros. Children were also given one hundred euros each, and the unemployed were given 200 euros. That's how the responsible state works. I mentioned, and once again, the pensioners next year at the beginning, whether it will be January or February, however, will receive one-off aid of 20,000 dinars. So we're going to work nonstop, this is a state that has social justice, a country where, here we are, citizens, we who are in Parliament need to help in a way that educates people. I don't know how to get to the brains of people who won't vaccinate. Let them look at the statistics. All in the last five months that have died have not been vaccinated, all who have been on respirators in the last maybe a few months, not maybe, but more than that, have not been vaccinated. The person who's been vaccinated has a milder clinical picture, which means he's at home treating antibiotics, and I'll talk about it while I can. I thought I was talking about a lot of things, but this is very important to me because my friends are sick right now, three of them are not vaccinated, one of them has a mild temperature, and they'll be treated, thank God, and for these others we'll see. I hope he survives. As our government and our President Alexander Vukic do, he deserves all the praise, but I have to look back at these people who don't think so. It's clear to me that someone doesn't respect someone, doesn't like someone, just doesn't like the character and the work of something, but don't touch our children, don't insult your mothers, don't insult your fathers, it's just inappropriate, it just doesn't belong to anyone. It's scenic that someone in the middle of a live show is cursing the mother of the President of the Republic. That never happened. It's an unprecedented case. That's not what you do. It's embarrassing to hear, I'm not going to tell you who he is, because he's growing popular with these people of illiterate, semi-literate, arrogant people. It's amazing that someone's cursing someone's mother on the screen, people. What do you think would happen if any president of the world had been cursed publicly by his mother so that everyone could hear? You don't have to love the character and the work of us MPs to anyone but don't touch our children, our fathers, don't. It's just not nice. If we've adopted the code here, I don't know how many children there are, nor do I care, I'm only interested in the procreation and the money we're going to give for the children, because our mortality is greater than our procreation. Let's be human, not inhuman. The hardest thing in life is to be a good man. If we don't love each other, we can respect the state, this is one Serbia, our beautiful country, with beautiful people, welcoming, welcoming. We've given vaccines to the entire region. As far as I'm concerned, the opposition is a general mess in the opposition. We are being attacked as angry just because we have a programme, which will average pensions of 440 euros in 2025, which will be the average salary of 760 euros, which was 26% in 2012, and today with all of Kovid is 9.5%. If it wasn't for Kovid, it would be 7%, so in a few years, it would be 5%, which is the European average. As far as the opposition are concerned, here are the people of the Anti-Corruption Agency's still accounts, so Mr. Gilas has a total of 64m euros in accounts. With those 619 million, it's about 680 million euros. From those 35 apartments, and no apartment is likely below 200,000 euros, because it's small for him, that 100,000 euros doesn't count, it's like when I drink coffee in a restaurant, it's about 700m euros. For 700m euros, the Moravski Corridor could be completed, an embarrassment one. They're like wasps. They say we won't go to the election. Well, how to go to the polls, they weren't in the last election either, their popularity is zero. They had the ones that came out, something one, something... To get together, we wouldn't all have three percent. I want them to come to their senses, start making programs, be cultural, be polite, and maybe they'll do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-05-0.u9521	Thank you. Since we're done with the list of MPs, I'm asking if the motionary wants a word. No, I don't. ( b) Do the words of the committees responsible or anyone else who has not yet exercised their right? No, I don't. Thank you. At the beginning of today, I didn't want to mention this date at all, but since many of them mentioned it today, I said last time that unfortunately I had to do today because Tuesday was to schedule a start, or our first session of the Second Regular Session this year. Fortunately, we will discuss and discuss many important issues, but heirs, those who have destroyed, burned down, robbed this building, and today similar things are trying to continue to do, but it's not a political campaign, it's the result of political nothingness, of proscration. When you don't have a policy, then you attack someone's family, like they do with President Vukic. As far as we're concerned, we continue our work in Serbia's interest and I'm sure this day may well be remembered for what we did today. I am concluding a joint principled search on proposals for the law referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 of the agenda. I apologize to those who participated in October 5th. Everyone has a right to sin. Thank you. [[Session interrupted at 6:00 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that the session is attended by 72 MPs, so I would like to invite you to put your cards in the MPs' offices to determine the exact number of MPs. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 109 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 5th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PROTECTION OF PROTECTION IN THE LIFE CENTER, acting unanimously to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend: Irena Vujović, Minister of Environment Protection, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister and Jelena Tanaskovic and Aleksandar Dujanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Aleksandra Imširagić Đurić, Deputy Minister of Environment Protection, Sara Pavkov, Special Advisor at the Office of the Minister of Environment and Sladjana Brdić, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Environment Protection. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for a law on noise protection in the environment. I give the word to the minister, the proposing representatives, Ireni Vujovic.
