ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7601	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 116 MPs. I remind you, Article 49. The Law on the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in each decision-making, exists if the majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 144 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Justina Pupin Koscal and Josip Broz. The 13th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021 and the 4th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly were delivered to you. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 13th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 25, 26 and 27 May. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 148, they did not vote – two, a total of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the list of the 13th session of the First Regular Session. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, held on 7 June 2021. I conclude the vote: for – 146, it did not vote – four, a total of - 150. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the Assembly of the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 235 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a certain agenda contained in the request. For the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act; 2. Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – To our children. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Prof. Dr. Daria Kisić Tepavcevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and Zoran Milosevic, acting as Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pensions and INVALID Security Please, if they have not already done so, to immediately submit applications for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I am opening a review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7602	Dear MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which is ahead of you, is part of the reform process of the pension and disability insurance system that was launched since 2001. Since then, different reform stages have changed. Depending on a number of circumstances, they were less or more restrictive, but the economic results achieved by the measures taken in general enabled further progress in this area. This has been particularly visible for the past few years, when economic progress has taken place in the government's actions. On the basis of the improvement of the economic situation, the amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act of 2018 and 2019 have been improved and the situation of pensioners has been established by establishing a more favourable way of synchronising pensions, the payment of one-off pension benefits and the basis for the payment of the cash amount as an increase in pension. It should also be borne in mind that it is up to the pension and disability insurance system and the law that regulates it, that all social and economic movements are inevitably maintained. For this reason, it is often expected that all social problems are automatically solved through this system, sometimes regardless of the consequences, which has happened in the past. Therefore, every change and addition of access shall be carefully and shall be decided after an analysis of all possible potential solutions. The amendments and additions to the laws governing this very important social area are planned in a timely manner, as far as possible, given the current issues and challenges. Thus, the bill is also planned to address certain issues and is covered by the government's programme for this year. However, under special circumstances the conditioned pandemic of the virus Kovida-19 was prepared, so the bill covers only the most urgent and necessary changes and additions. With this in mind, and since Serbian citizens, above all, are interested in the conditions for obtaining pension and disability insurance rights and the way pensions are coordinated, it should be stressed that these topics were not the subject of these amendments to the PIO Act. The proposed amendments and additions to the law relate to the following. The basic reason why amendments and additions to the PIO Act have been approached at this time is the problem faced by persons covered by the government's social programme for the resolution of surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation. It's about people who were missing up to five years of age at the time of accepting a social programme to exercise their pension rights. Option 5, i.e. up to two years, etc. Option 3. After the adoption of the social programme, amendments and additions to the PIO Law of 2014, which changed the conditions for the exercise of age pension rights and introduced early retirement pensions, with effect from 1 January 2015. Because of the change in the conditions for obtaining age pension rights, i.e. that there was no longer an age pension based on the so-called so-called pension. the full-time staff, those persons did not meet even the prescribed conditions for the exercise of age pension rights of 65 years of age, so they were forced to opt for early retirement, which included so-called pension. Penalties, i.e. a permanent reduction in pensions for each month prior to retirement 65 years ago. Due to the circumstances created, and since the government on one hand has been the holder of a programme to address surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation, it has been tried to prevent further adjustment of the problem. Despite all efforts, however, the various attempts have not yielded lasting results, so in order to provide full legal protection to those users and to resolve their problem permanently, it is decided to settle this issue permanently with legal provisions. In addition, this bill also contains provisions governing the status of farmers' insurance companies, which carry out contracted tasks, as regards the engagement of farmers according to the rules on engagement in seasonal and other jobs. Also, these changes are also made in terms of determining the insurance standings for so-called. frillers, which are recognised in the Law on PIO, otherwise long ago as self-employed insurance companies. In fact, these insurance companies are also accounted for in the same way as all insurance companies that make the contracted compensation. The bill also stipulates that the family pension beyond the death of the insurance company is not determined by early retirement, but by the age or disability pensions that would belong to the insurance company at the time of death, bringing family pensioners into a more favourable position based on the deceased user of early retirement. Furthermore, the draft law also contains a provision that prescribes the establishment of a difference to the minimum amount of pension for pensioners whose pension amount is lower than the minimum amount of pension, which have reached a foreign pension. In relation to the conduct of the Republic Fund for PIO, this law lays down the right of the Fund to require, in addition to other cases, compensation for the damage done and the person who caused the insurance undertaking the need for assistance and care of another person. Also, problems arise that arise with the amount of pension paid after the death of the users, in relation to trustees who do not comply with the request of the Return Fund, which does not belong to the trustee after the death of the beneficiaries of the right. It shall also be specified in relation to the data entered in the Fund’s parent records and the procedure for determining the characteristics of the insurance company which allows the Fund, under official duty, to make an application for insurance. Also, this law further regulates the conditions for the payment of the compensation of funeral expenses after the death of users of the right. In addition to these changes and additions, it is necessary and necessary to specify certain provisions in order to avoid the concerns that have arisen in practice, as well as technical improvements in order to make the work of the Republic of PIO Fund more effective and to facilitate the exercise of the rights for insurance and users. So, as it is said, this time the bill does not cover all the issues that were planned, but only those that were necessary, and it is particularly stressed that this proposal does not change the conditions for obtaining pension and disability insurance rights, which is particularly the focus of our citizens' interest. The reform of the pension and disability insurance system will continue in the next period of time, in which, as so far, all entities need assistance and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7603	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7604	Thank you. A respected minister with an associate, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social inclusion and poverty reduction held a session to discuss and adopt the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. What the Committee finds is that these amendments and amendments to the laws have a positive effect on users of early retirements, unlike those previously made, which had a restrictive character namely, in the focus of this law, there are users of early retirement pensions, which are in line with the plan and programme of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the resolution of surplus employees in enterprises that were in the process of rationalisation, restructuring or preparation for privatisation, which were missing five years of insurance, i.e. two years of insurance training until the fulfilment of at least one pension condition, accepted this agreement and thus resolved, helped, in fact, sign a social programme, and thus fulfilled what the Government had planned and programme and predicted. However, due to changes to the Labour Act, the age limit has been increased in 2014. Otherwise, the Labour Act entered into force on 1 January 2015, and these workers who signed the social programme did not meet the conditions for full retirement, were already retired as early retirement pensioners who have permanently reduced the difference. That's what they're called. Penalties. Of course this is fixing now. This law exclusively applies to these early retirement pensioners. This law does not in any way affect an increase in retirement age, which has otherwise been circulating in public information and in public. So the retirement limit remains 65 years for men, that is, in this year 63 years and two months for women. What I also want to point out is that this bill has other significant changes, and I would, first of all, bring about a fully equal position for all family pensioners. In fact, family pensions will not be accounted for from now on based on the amount of early retirement, but on the amount an insurance would have at the time of death, which refers to an age pension. In this way, all family pensioners are placed in an equal position. This law also has amendments to the part relating to the amount of funeral expenses. So, a more favourable amount of payment of funeral expenses is determined, and it simplifies the process of payment of compensation for funeral expenses at the expense of the one carrying the funeral expenses. It is very important to say that within 60 days, the PIO Fund will, on official duty or at the request of the user, implement the amount of retirement pension for those pensioners, premature old age, who, on the basis of the social programme, have acquired the right to early retirement. The funds for disbursement of these pensions are provided for in the PIO Fund and have been determined by the budget rebalance for 2021. What I want to point out is that in a responsible way the government approaches pensioner issues, approaches pension and disability insurance reform and puts a special emphasis on helping and supporting pensioners. I must point out that the Republic of Serbia is almost the only country in the world that has since 1 January raised pensions and increased salaries, regardless of the pandemic of the birds that hit us last year. Pensions are increased by so-called. Swiss model for 5.9% and average pension today is 29,400 dinars. Not only is the government responsible and, of course, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic approached the issues of improving the material position of pensioners and by paying all pensioners in the framework of the 100-euro aid package last year, a one-time aid of 4,000 and 5,000 dinars, which is planned next to 60 euros, which is intended for all full-year citizens, and an additional 50 euros for all pensioners. Certainly, the pension and disability insurance system depends, above all, on the country's economic progress and development. Serbia is firmly defined for further economic growth and development, all in line with the plan and programme promoted by President Aleksandar Vukic, with the plan and programme "Serbia 2025", when the average salary will be 900 euros and the average pension of 440 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7605	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7606	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I can say that we discussed this proposal at the Committee's session and found that it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so that today we will be able to hear the MPs who will be able to talk about this issue in plenary. As we heard at the very beginning of today's session, the reasons for the adoption of this law stem from the need to solve the problem that has arisen for early retirement users, who have found themselves in this situation because they have accepted an offer by the Government to solve surplus employees or in the process of rationalisation or in the process of restructuring and preparation for privatisation. They couldn't claim retirement. Also, in 2014, an age limit was raised for obtaining age pension rights and early retirement was introduced. However, the introduction of early retirement has negatively affected the users of the social programme that have been identified as special cash compensation and cash compensation in accordance with the Government's decision to set up a programme for the resolution of surplus employees, as I said, or in the process of rationalisation, restructuring or preparation for privatisation. In order to address the problem created, the Serbian Government concluded in November 2020 that, more precisely, it was agreed that persons identified as excess employees, who were missing up to five years of age and who had obtained the right to receive a special refund, paid the difference between the amount of retirement pension they would have made by applying pension and disability insurance rules that were in force at the time of the exercise of the right to special cash compensation and the amount of early retirement pension. It was also found that this difference was paid to persons who were declared redundant in accordance with that decision, who were missing up to two years at the time of termination of the employment relationship. So, in the government's conclusion, one temporary solution is to the problem that has arisen. Now these amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act will be permanently resolved. With that in mind, I would like to invite my fellow Members and fellow MPs to support this proposal submitted by the Serbian government in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7607	I thank the representatives of the board. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? He's got a word for it, Professor. Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SDPS, I welcome the amendments and additions to the PIO Act. Why am I doing this? Because of the fact that a great injustice has been righted that has been done to workers at the time of privatisation, and that of our privatisations since 2000. That's when the individuals really got rich. I can't ask for a nice word for that privatisation without her being polite. She must have been unfair. She's unfair and, more harshly said, she was a robber. Who lost the most? The workers lost because they were jobless, without pay, and at the same time they found themselves on the street, and suddenly people who were worth it, the honest ones were out of work, salaries, and became social cases. The state tried to find solutions. She found solutions. We had social programs, there were often misunderstandings, and somehow we came out of that privatisation and came into this situation that did. What's most important here, we've changed the rules of the game during the game. You know, it's like playing football, so in the first half, there's one game rule, and in the second half there's another game rule. The government realized its lack, it made decisions, and decisions were in favour of workers, and I have to stress that, but every year, by changing the government, new decisions had to be made. That's why it's a good thing it's done here, which is to make it a legal obligation and these workers are finally insured for all time, while pensioners are. You know, when we talk about this privatisation, we know that 400,000 people remain unemployed. That's a really big number. That large number is such that we had to do what was done. But there's another dilemma if I want to talk about temporary pensions, early retirement pensions. What's he looking at? It's looking at the so-called. penalties or criminal points. Namely, anyone who retired 65 years ago was permanently damaged by 0.34 because he had retired early. That's a significant reduction. I have to admit that this reduction many workers felt, some of them retired because they were in a situation that they had to, they didn't get paid, they had to go to the labour market, they had to get paid, they had to wait, they had to have someone safe to receive, and that must have been the pension, which for them wasn't so big, and that was why this was a good but temporary solution. This is becoming a permanent solution. Speaking of the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, its changes and additions, I'll take the opportunity to even talk about the law. You know, it's the most complex law in our country. It's one system law, and it breaks through that law all its life. Why? Many people work, don't think about their age, come retirement long before they think, and right in that situation, a man has to think about what happens to him when he retires. Why am I stressing this? Because we have a pension system that is good, which is stable and that Serbian citizens need to know. So our system is stable, good, and as a system, it doesn't need to have sudden and rapid changes. Any change in that system must be well studied. Why? Because each change also means a certain material asset. Because, you know, you can't get a pension unless it's an asset. People often think, yes, I'm going to retire, I haven't made any big contributions and I'm going to have a big pension. He can't. The pension must be proportionate to the pension fund. We often forget that. The state, by solving this problem, was often in a very difficult situation. When we had a lot of unemployment, especially during this privatisation, and then I followed closely the work of the Pension-Employed Fund, you know that the state gave up to 48% of the budget. This means that the contributions were not enough to pay off pensions and the state made 48% out of the budget. Now our pension fund is well charged and we can be absolutely safe there. In 2021, 722.6 billion dinars are allocated to pensions. Of which, I must tell you, 153.2 billion or 22% are given out of the budget. Please, what was 48% of the budget, and now 22%. And according to the information I have, the pension-involvement fund from the contributions is now, in the first six months, very well-charged and pension funds are less and less withdrawing from the budget, which in another way means that employment is increasing at one enviable level, because for all those who are employed, contributions are paid and these funds go to the pension fund. When I say that the pension fund is stable, that it's sustainable economics, it's a very important fact, which means that pensions are safe, they're accurate, they'll be paid in time and paid off in time. When I talk about it, it's very important that we have established a very important balance. For pensions, up to 11% of GDP is allocated. That's one of the red lines that says we can't be in a situation where our pensions become very problematic. No, they can't be, because retirement is for all pensions, for 1,720,000 pensioners somewhere near 10.5 per cent of GDP. So there's still room for corrections, for increasing the standards of employed pensioners, for a simple reason because those who single out, employees, can do it and do it in a good way. You know, those 11% of GDP standards have been introduced by the World Bank, or the IMF, and we respect that and it gives good results. Secondly, when I say that pensions are stable, that they monitor GDP growth and inflation, that's exactly the Swiss formula. You know that at the time of the financial consolidation, we were in a situation where pensions were reduced by 10%. Everyone says the pensioners have really taken a huge burden and they have, because, you know, the sum of 722 billion is not a small amount of GDP. As our GDP grows, it is certain that this growth will also follow pensions. I'm particularly in favour, and I stood up for the Swiss formula. The Swiss formula says pensions line up with 50% GDP growth and 50% wage growth, or inflation, and that's one good formula. We often have a story in the public that one way should be changed, whether to increase in terms of GDP wages, etc. I personally believe and support that the Swiss formula is respected, because this formula does not depend on any political option, it depends on the resources we have, depending on our work, depends on the contributions we make to the Pension-Invalid Fund. I keep stressing - there are no pensions unless the pension fund is filled. That's why we have to keep insisting on employment, on higher wages, on a better standard, and that will also mean greater contributions, better pensions and higher pension growth than we have now. You know that in this year's pension we increased by 5.9%, which is pretty good, because this Swiss formula in this year has produced good results. Sometimes the Swiss formula won't always give the best results for pensioners, but we stick to that rule because it leads us to something, to stability, that someone can't arbitraryly determine that there will be as many or as many pensions, but will depend solely on our work, payment of contributions and employment. I said just now, the pension fund and pensions are one complex system. You don't need to change it fast. Everything needs a good study, a good calculation. And the very fact of these changes and additions to the laws that we're adopting today should be set aside by over 300 million dinars. It's not a small amount, which means every change means more separation. I'd like to make a few suggestions for the Minister to think about them. When I say this, I'm talking more about a future with a desire to study each change well, a good calculation, so let's just adopt it. The first change I want to say is to introduce an institute that was before -- the ratio of the average pension and the average salary. He must be 50%. That's when pensions don't lag behind pay. It would be a correction once a year for that missing piece and that institute that existed once before had good results. Of course, he will seek significant funds, and I think it should be in the PIO Fund for the next meeting of the National Assembly. By my estimate, it takes about two years to study the work. Then material conditions will also be created, GDP growth, higher employment, hopefully after the crown, as you can see we have good results and I want us to still have them, and it will mean a bigger economic takeoff. That fact itself says that we will be able to make that correction and introduce that institute. That's what I would suggest to be the first change I'd like to make to our National Assembly as soon as possible, and I'd be happy to vote for it, too. The second change I suggest you, Madam Minister, that you think about it, that is, your team and Mr. Zoran, since we've known each other for a long time, we've been working on these jobs, is the fact that the suspension of the penalty for early retirement pensions. You know we've introduced this institute, that whoever turned 40 years old, and he's not 65 years old, he's got points. Whoever turned 65 can go into early retirement, but there's a penalty pen 0.34% for every month. It's not a small percentage and it's permanent. It doesn't make sense to me. I've talked to the unions and about these changes, and I've talked to the independent union, and I've talked about this. They think, and I think it's a good thing, let's think about canceling those foams when someone turns 65 years old. It's enough that those five years ago, if he's gone with 60 years of life, he's damaged. Multiply 12 months, 0.34 times five, you're going to get not a small percentage. In my opinion, it's going to require funds not so small. It would be another change that this system, the pension-involved system, could have for the simple reason that I think even then we end one injustice, the injustice that was. I know the World Bank has insisted on that, on these penalties, but I think with a little bit more tenacity, with a little more arguments, with a little more explanation that our Pension Fund is economically sustainable, that it has enough resources, and we can also clean up the Pension Fund from some things that don't belong to it. Have a good one. Why does pensioners' health insurance pay the pension fund? Why wouldn't the state do it in the budget? Then donations to the Pension Fund would be much less than 152 billion, would be below 20, about 15 in the world with countries of such age groups as we are, and Serbia as you know old country, we are in the first five countries in Europe by age, and that is very important and very important, then we would come to about 12% to 15% of budget donations, which in all the surrounding countries and European standards is one standard that needs to be respected. But I'm also pushing for this to be the next step we're going to discuss in addition to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act, so the removal of a pen for people who went into early retirement, and that's when they turn 65. The third topic or fourth one I also propose to the Minister to think about, which is the most sensitive subject, which I was talking about two, three months ago, is either a category or a social pension institute. In fact, every man must have the right to a dignified age. That's what every person deserves. The institute exists in many European countries. It's going to be very difficult for us. You know, we have one category of agricultural pensioners, or farmers who pay pensions that are really minimal, but farmers if they don't pay can't expect to have pensions. If you don't get paid in the Pension Fund you can't get back some funding, because the logic of every pension fund is how much you pay, you get back in proportion. It's a matter of solidarity. The introduction of social pensions would, in my opinion, be one long-term problem, to think about it, because many people find themselves in a difficult situation, especially when they come in years, in these times they need to be allowed to have a decent life and therefore we need to push for it. What kind of social pension is it going to be, conditionally speaking, I wouldn't be talking about it right now, it's hard to think about it, but it's one problem that we have to think about in the long run. The Social Democratic Party, the parliamentary group to which I belong, will be pleased to vote for this law and will always think about how to make pensions decent enough for a decent life, and they will be enough for a decent life when we have a higher employment, a better standard, a higher standard and just that contribution, the improvement must also be felt by pensioners, because these pensioners were working when this country was created, when this country was developing. The present generation must show solidarity to the people who have retired. That's where I expect, and I can tell the pensioners with pleasure -- yes, you'll get your pension on time, as most of them today received 30 euros in their accounts because they were vaccinated. Since I've been on the inside a lot these days, on the ground, and talked to the pensioners, be assured that they show us full trust and believe in what we do. It is precisely because of them, because of workers who have been in a difficult situation, because of all the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party will gladly vote for this law, and with a desire for the Ministry of Labour, employment to think carefully about the proposals I have made and to come up with concrete solutions as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7609	I thank Mr. Mijatovic. Next reported is counterpart Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7610	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on PIO. This law can be classified in the order of laws which are concrete and which are very important for the lives of every citizen, especially those currently in the status of pensioners, however, this status of pensioners is somehow a status concerning those who today may be in the status of workers, but will come very quickly to the position of pensioners, so that the responsible authorities and those who imitate power in a certain period certainly through legal solutions should strive to address these issues the best possible way. In fact, the issue of social policy in a particular country, in a particular society, is something that depends on the quality of life itself. If in our Semantic essence we look at only the meaning of the words of politics, we will see that somewhere in history this concept primarily refers to the order of the affairs of a particular community or city, that is, a policy with the skills of governance, and yet today a modern understanding of politics might be aware of the social activity that is fully designed, targetedly directs society in a particular direction, that is, in a certain direction. Of social content that primarily implies job security, good income, regular income, on the other hand tomorrow and safe pensions, on the other hand good health care, the resolved housing issue in many ways will depend on the very orientation of citizens and the mood towards people who are in power, i.e. those who imitate the very position of government. This is actually a question that in modern societies means getting or losing power, it's not just a decor and it's not just a decoration. For what? Because modern societies are just based and rested on social well-being and citizens simply know when to work for their benefit and when to work against their interests. In terms of access to social policies, we can also historically see that there are two characters, which are utilitarian and humanistic. Unlike the utilitarian, humanistic character implies and has as a central figure of man, i.e. a concrete good for each individual who through public interest, through collective interest will have and enjoy a position adequate in society and be motivated both through norms of legislation and through appropriate certain norms. In that sense, I would also like to highlight certain problems that are making it difficult today, to say, a social picture globally throughout the world, and they are primarily seen in poverty. So the paradox is that on the one hand, humanity is progressing in scientific, economic, cultural, every other sense, and on the other hand we have increases in the number of poor and those who are hungry. So, according to some estimates of the 1980s, about 750 million people belonged to poor citizens, while it was estimated that in this century it was actually 1.2 billion people. Which means it's about an enormous increase. On the other hand, around 63% of developing countries have this trend of increasing poverty. There are a large number of people who are exposed to hunger, among them especially children, around 600 million people are exposed to hunger, and right in developing countries, so somewhere more than half of children under the age of five, are actually malnourished, and even 90 million are exposed to severe hunger. Which means that society must not be polarised to those very rich, those in a good financial, social position and those representing a poor category. The very purpose of social policy is that property, property, capital, circulate and circulate from rich to poor and not allow us to have polarization in this way. In terms of the legal solution itself and the entire pension insurance system, we can say that it is a truly complex segment that cannot be solved by one legal solution, but in fact continuity regarding the making of legal acts and norms shows the willingness of the authorities to come out of this problem and to solve this problem in the long term. We heard from the minister in the report that, in fact, since 2001, there has been a reform of pension and disability insurance, and about seven stages have passed since the very beginning, and the process seems to me, perhaps halfway through, although trends are constantly changing, and in that sense we can expect that changes will be constantly made, additions to the law in certain segments. However, it is very important that before the categories that are in a particular need come up with a concrete legal solution, because literally every year, people who are in a subordinate situation, perhaps because of a poor legislative solution, are actually at a loss, because the quality of the laws that people are making is what they are imperfect, which they are subject to change and what their real effect actually see only when they start to apply. Then the results from the field, or practice from the field, tell us that it is a good or bad legal solution that needs to be changed. In this direction, any reform, or change, that is done in a timely manner, is very important to the citizens themselves. In terms of these particular changes, we heard from the minister that it was actually about changes that were most urgent. There have been announcements, it seems to me, in public by the Minister of Agriculture that in particular some solutions regarding the beneficiaries of the agricultural pension are going to be resolved, it seems to me that they are lagging behind this time, but I will certainly mention them, so I hope that in some of the future legal solutions will certainly be found. So, in terms of first debt, very high, enormous debt, which has agricultural insurance, which is a product, let's say some of the lagging defaults in the period perhaps two or three decades ago, these debts are a burden on one side of the burden on the country itself, but on the other hand they represent a ballast and a burden on the farmers themselves, and they are those debts to the wolf. Here, it would be important for the government to come out with a concrete measure of aid to agricultural insurance, in a way that a good part of these debts should be written off or the interest that has grown in the meantime be written off. It's simple to find a model that will be in the interest of farmers themselves, then, and most of these people are retired today, or some expect retirement. In fact, in such a way that their status is more precisely defined and rounded. On the other hand, we mentioned a category of workers who, in this way, actually had discrimination and injustice that had been done to them at the time, and at one point even without a job, had taken certain measures of the government due to privatisation, but on the other hand, it reflected the possibility of receiving pensions. It is therefore very important that the early retirement rules that have been in force and what will thus be corrected are lifted. Another important segment that is going through the legislative norm of given regulations is the question of family pensions where family pensioners are placed in a more favourable position in the sense that pensions are not determined in the principle of early retirement, but in principle and the height of retirement pensions, or those pensions that would belong to a person at the time of death, and that the users of the family itself are able to use only the question of pensions in a valid manner. On the other hand, the issue of funeral services, i.e. compensation for funeral expenses, is also being carried out through this legislative act, which is highly commendable. So, basically, any legal solution that will mean relief, concrete relief of citizens' lives, in this case, pensioners, is very important. You know, the Republic of Serbia has passed since the 1990s on a turbulent, very turbulent period in every sense, especially this has been reflected, and it has been visible on the economic agenda. These discomforts were also witnessed by workers who at that time may have had small wages and incomes, but on the other hand and largely the pensioners felt it. We all remember that, at one point, inflation pensions were very low, and it was literally impossible to survive some days of the whole month, and certainly not the whole month. So, in that sense, it's very important to keep that in mind. After all, the height, increase and further progress of pensions, although the country is on track, is certainly causally and consequently linked to the country's concrete economic development. So, if the country develops economically, if the wage sector increases, if these profits are stable, gross social income will be higher as much as pensions will. So everything is connected and therefore working on the state's improvement and prosperity, it means contributing to all categories of society both to the workers and to the pensioners themselves. Because in principle, the model of solidarity among generations where insurance companies will prove to be actually funding pensioners by their contributions, will actually mean that tomorrow they can expect it, and when they come into the period, let's say, certain ages. So, in the end, I would like to point out that the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will certainly support this legal framework with a sure wish, the suggestion that new amendments and additions of the law will come as soon as possible to bring all those categories of insurance, in this case specifically retired, into a more favourable position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7611	Thank you. The next is the National MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7612	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, today we are discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension-Invalid Insurance, in the part where we are correcting, so to speak, an empty space created due to the non-compliance of economic reforms and reforms of the pension-inhabitation system, and where one part of the pensioners' population, so to speak, was not able to achieve all the rights that belonged to them. Here with these changes and additions of the law, we find a way and a solution to make it all right. In Serbia today, we have about 1,696,000 pensioners, which accounts for around 24.42% of the population in the total population of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, today we are talking about the population of pensioners, the part of our population that has made an immeasurable contribution to the construction of our country and the development of our country, the part of the population that has made its responsible relationship with the state, its commitment to Serbia's well-being, made a huge contribution to economic reforms to the consolidation of our country's public finances and reforms, which it was, in order to remind you, in 2012 under bankruptcy, turned you into an economically stable and prosperous state for a very short time. Entering the process of these economic reforms that have consolidated our public finances was certainly not an easy decision. Only people who were economically enlightened, dedicated to their country, could understand and support such reforms. This support of many, or vast majority of Serbian citizens, especially our pensioners, has proved particularly important in the past year and a half, at a time when the pandemic of the coronal virus and the economic and health crisis has affected the world, and Serbia has succeeded in keeping the economic and financial stability of Serbia's economic and financial reforms, not only in the region, but also significantly wider, and on the other hand, to preserve health security and provide sufficient vaccines for all, especially those most vulnerable, and these are pensioners. Perhaps on this case we can best see how well-being can be for some society when there is synergies in responsible behaviour, on the one hand, the state and in responsible behaviour, on the other hand, most citizens of the state. Of course, this results in an economically stable state and a health-resistant state, a country where we can choose between four vaccines, in which there is no battle for hospital beds during the coronary pandemic of the virus. All of these are the reasons why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support these amendments and the additions of the law in the voting day. The results in all areas of society would be even greater if they were the same degree of responsibility and I would say the same degree of love for the state showed all the political factors and all the political actors on our country's political scene. Unfortunately, that was not the case, because there is one, however, fortunately, a small part of the political scene in Serbia, which, throughout the economic reforms and during the fight against the crown of the virus, has acted irresponsibly by trying to discredit every force, which is fortunately and not so great, every effort of the state and citizens to combat the threatening economic bankruptcy of our country. Once again, I return to 2012 and the situation of our country's overindebted debt, which was brought by those who are now acting so irresponsiblely and who are in every way tripping and undermining our country's efforts. They undermine our country's efforts and during the fight against Kovid 19, they try to discredit the hard-earned international credibility of our state of Serbia by writing various letters and letters to international institutions and individuals. Why did they do it and why do it? I've already said once here, ladies and gentlemen, in this high house that those in Serbia who are stable and strong, in Serbia who are developing, in Serbia where the standard of living is growing, in which all economic numbers go plus, they have nothing to look for in such a Serbia. They are aware of the desperate little support they have among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they are even now openly saying that they do not care about what the citizens want and who the citizens want. They want to force themselves, with the help of those who support them outside Serbia. In that they go so openly to say that they are not even interested in the electoral will of the citizens and what the citizens think. Here's the final example of this, I'm talking about a press conference for Gilas's most paid employee, Marinika Tepic, and I quote her tweet: What is lustration for us? It's not rematchism, it's that those who have violated human rights to freedom of choice, information, opinions, expressions can no longer run, and then, be careful, the citizens will say in the elections whether we're guilty. No, you can't even run anymore. “ A quote has been completed. They openly say they are not interested in democracy, that they are not absolutely interested in the election as a crown of democracy. They openly say they are not interested in what the citizens will say in the elections. They simply want to come to power by force and that when they come to power they ban anyone who thinks differently not only thinks but also prohibits and deny the constitutional right to choose and be elected. They ignore the people, ignore democracy, and they think they're just smart, that they're the smartest, that they're the richest, that they're the only divine right to rule Serbia, because they're, like, the higher race, they're the superhumans. Well, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here, and I ask the public of Serbia, what does this policy look like to you, what does this policy and political attitude remind you of? It reminds me of fascism. It's just that this isn't about national fascism as it was originally at the time of Nazi Germany or Mussolini's Italy, it's about one analytical mondialist fascism. But fascism is fascism. He implies dictatorship, he implies disrespect for the will of the people, he implies the existence of a higher class, a class predetermined to rule. All the elements of this fascism came together and found themselves in a single tweet by Marinika Tepic. Marinika Tepic says and responds to the president of Serbia – here, you are the first one we, by this fascist principle, will put in some of our modern concentration. Unfortunately or fortunately for Serbian citizens, in fact fortunately Serbian citizens, Marinika Tepic has completely missed the target. Because who most violates human rights from current politicians? Who beats her wife and beats her father? Who's threatening his wife? Who's the one who's threatening a police officer while he's on duty? Who's threatening the students on the street? After all, who is preventing and who is angry and yelling and yelling at journalists and who is fighting independent and free journalism at their press conferences? Well, it's Marinique's boss, Dragan Gillas. Here, I'm ordering Marinika, although I disagree deeply, essentially with her statements and political views, and I said they have elements of fascism, I say, by these criteria of yours, Marinika, the first one on your shooting that you would produce if you came to power should be exactly your boss Dragan Gilas. Often we can hear it said that the only ability of the incompetents is to disable the capable. And part of the opposition, as it is, incompetent, constantly trying to lie, trying to twist the reality of disabling and dragging through its circle of corruption and through its mud of anyone who shows the result and therefore has the support of the people. We've already said that this part of the opposition doesn't need the support of the people, they ignore the will of the people and constantly twist reality. It's an example of countless, but here are some of them. For example, last week in Jagodina, a Fisher factory opened, which will employ more than 400 workers. On that occasion, he owns the factory, otherwise the fifth richest German, Professor. Klaus Fisher, said he would already head straight for construction and other new factories in Jagodina that will employ around 1,000 new workers and on that occasion came to open the factory and the president of Serbia. Here's an excellent example of how reality and reality are twisted. For the media that support Dragan Gilas and his suite, it was not news that a new, modern, modern factory that produces parts for Mercedes, BMW, for the largest and most powerful world companies, will be employed by 400 workers, who will receive good and high wages, that this strengthens the stability of our country's economy, that our country is attractive and most attractive to foreign investors, not only in the region but also beyond, that Serbia is developing economically because it is the best indicator. When the fifth company comes to you in Germany, in the EU's most economically developed country, it invests and says – immediately the next step of a new investment, no, this is not news for these media, it is for Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilasa, Sandu Raskovic Ivić, Vuk Jeremic is not news. You know what their news was, that day, because they wanted to reverse reality? The news was that the president of the Republic of Serbia washed Dragan Markovic Palm with his arrival in Jagodina and sent a clear message to the prosecution. Although that was the occasion, so did Mr. Aleksandar Mirkovic, who said the previous time, although the president of Serbia said that no one would influence, if Dragan Markovic Palma was guilty, he would answer, even though at that time Dragan Markovic Palma himself said that he should not defend any of Marinika's lies, nor did the president of the Republic, even though he said that he himself had reported himself to the prosecution, because Marinika did not want to report him, because she knows that she would be responsible for false reporting. No, for those media it was the main news, it was not the main news that Serbia is prosperous, that Serbia is making progress and that something nice is happening in the state of Serbia. No, just to make a mess, just to get people through the mud, because only in such an environment, in such a circle of their corruption, they can be something as important as that. When we talk about this distortion of reality, here's the next example. For months, and perhaps it is better to say years ago, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Dilas and his clicks deceive the public that Serbia, or the president of Serbia, will recognise Kosovo, and here's the deal, and here's how much more tomorrow, and here's a little more tomorrow, and so on. Then yesterday, when in Brussels in the presence of international mediators, the President of the Republic said to the self-called representative of the Kosovo administration, in person -- I will never recognise Kosovo, that for those media who support that click on Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic was not news, was not the news. You know what their news was? The main news was that the Supreme Cassation Court annulled the Court of Appeal's decision and returned to rejuvenation on the case of Darko Saric. In doing so, they lie openly and associate the state of Serbia with it, although the judiciary is independent, although it is all for procedural reasons, although the state has nothing to do with it, but nothing at all. And in particular, there are no judges, which are precisely those who have scattered from the former DS, who have set up, or that is to say, the reform of the judiciary conducted by a lawyer of both law and law, not to mention their names. They have all these judges and we have nothing against, we only tell these people – do what is right and do what is right. No one interferes with these people. But it is not news that Serbia's president told Kurti in person that he will not recognise Kosovo, but the main news is Darko Saric's verdict. That's what I'm talking about and what it is to twist reality and reality. Or when Gilas's most paid worker, Marinika Tepic, says - here, the prosecution has been doing nothing on the Palma case for two months. "Hello, Zago, woman, don't sleep," I quote Marinika Tepic. And the truth is actually the opposite. It is true that for more than two months, Marinika Tepic has told the most disgusting and detestable lies against Dragan Markovic Palma, not giving any evidence, no victim, only one alleged witness, Branislav Radosavljevic, whom we have talked about here many times, a criminal who has been arrested six times, convicted and who is otherwise, being seen, watched and listened to on some radio, declared a young hope of the Party of Freedom and Justice, because he is their high-ranking party activist. Well, it's an honor. And they wanted to hide him, too, and they didn't want to bring him to the D.A.'s office, and that's why they blurted him out, and that's why they're scrambling his voice, because they wanted that lie to stay in the fog, to hang out somewhere in public, with no evidence, no witnesses. He's talking about 31 witnesses. So of the 31 witnesses, 30 are actually associates and friends of Dragan Markovic Palma, who this criminal listed in that shameful video that they showed at the press conference. So none of them are Marine's witnesses. And those people were running through the D.A.'s office, they had to make statements. For what? Because of Marinika's lies. Of course, I repeat again, for the sake of the public, she told the lie and wanted to leave it in the fog, to hang out in public, and every time she pointed to Dragan Markovic Palm, while not pressing charges in the prosecution and did not file a complaint in the prosecution, because she knows she would be responsible for false reporting, she already wanted to leave it that way. And it is not she who insists on the prosecution, but it is Dragan Markovic Palma who constantly and daily insists that this thing be brought to a cleanup, and he is the one who does not want it to remain inexplicably, inexplicably and hanging in the air. But their media doesn't report it. They're talking about the fact that what Marinika said is the ultimate and definitive truth, they don't take at all, they don't give a single piece of doubt in her statement. Why? Because they openly support and work and activate for that side. What do you say, after all, about people who see chickens as drugs? Simply, these media who support Dragan Gilas and the rest of the click as if they have a vow of silence on domestic violence, i.e. they have a vow of silence over the case of Dragan Gilas, while Marinika's lies are stuck in the air all the time. What is true, for which there are witnesses, for which there are sacrifices, for which there is evidence, they don't talk about it, or possibly a month and a half ago with a short skill—and that is denied. Well, people, that can't be denied. There's a signature by Ivo Gilas on an official note at the Vrachar Police Department, there's evidence. They could have made a deal. I understand Eve Gilas, a single mother, knows who she's dealing with, and then she says, "I'd better settle and live peacefully than have any further problems with a man I'm usually having problems with, but there's proof." That's what the media isn't talking about. Therefore, unlike those who do not recognize the judgment of the people, we place as a priority the will of the people. Unlike those who aim to deal with politics, protection of personal capital and businesses, Mom aims to protect national and state interests. Unlike those whose priority is to preserve and increase personal wealth, we aim at economic progress of the state and to increase the standard of living of our citizens. They will continue with their Sundays, we will continue with our actions, the new ones we will leave behind for generations, and Serbian citizens are closely watching and Serbian citizens are the only ones who judge in the elections which policy is best for them, as much as it hurts Dragan Gilas and his client, so it was and so will be in Serbia, and that is why Unique Serbia supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7613	Thank you. Next, MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7614	The Honored Chairman, the Presidency, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM Group welcomed with special attention the amendment and addition of the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, since we have been pushing for different solutions to this matter for many years, especially in the work concerning pension and disability insurance for farmers. The SVM parliamentary group will support the proposed text of amendments and additions, as new solutions guarantee legal certainty, intergenerational solidarity and social status, worthy of current and future generations of pensioners. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians pays special attention to all categories of pensioners with full awareness that it is not easy to ensure the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, because these are often decades-old and inherited problems, so we are in a position to subsequently correct the wrongs found. The only way to ensure equality of all categories of pensioners, to ensure legal certainty, economic sustainability and equality, is to strengthen the rule of law. In terms of respect for the Constitution, the law, as well as the provisions of the Third Treaty to the European Union, which, among other things, determines as one of the basic values of the Union and intergenerational solidarity. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that compulsory pension insurance is regulated by system law on the principle of intergenerational solidarity and that the Republic of Serbia is concerned about the economic security of pensioners. The legal certainty of pensioners and protection against discrimination is the subject of negotiating Chapter 19, social policy and employment. The Chapter is part of Cluster 3 and a few months ago the Government of the Republic of Serbia sent the European Commission a negotiating position for Chapter 19. When we are in the field of inherited difficulties, today's bill of law is an attempt to solve the problem created for users of early retirement, which because of the government's social programme for the resolution of surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation could not exercise the right to an age pension because of the changed conditions for achieving this right in 2014. Proposed amendments to the law, this problem is permanently solved by about 15,000 people, and we can count on another 7,000. Appreciateing the importance of the proposed solution, we also point out the changes that will allow all family pension beneficiaries to be brought into an equal position, so that the family pension behind the death of the insurance company is not determined by early retirement, but by an old or disabled pension that would belong to the insurance company at the time of death. Why is this change important and bringing all family pensioners to a level playing field, among other things, and because the number of disabled and family pensioners in the category of agricultural pensioners is much smaller than others? The scope of pension and disability insurance is particularly regulated in each Member State of the European Union and directly depends on specific social economic conditions. For this reason, for the pension and disability insurance system, they differ and are not subject to mutual harmonisation as is the case in other areas. For example, there is a basic pension in Denmark and the Netherlands, we would say social pension, as a predetermined amount that does not depend on earlier incomes. Dear fellow MPs, for the SVM parliamentary group, resolving the issue of pension and disability insurance of farmers is a matter of special importance. This is a topic that takes an important place in our programme and although the proposed changes and supplements regulate pension and disability insurance of insurance workers, farmers only in a few specific cases and do not touch important topics, on which SVM has been working for years. Our parliamentary group considers the amendment and addition of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act an important step towards a comprehensive resolution and arrangement of the pension and disability insurance system and to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system. Unfortunately, there are also inherited problems in the area of pension insurance for farmers. Since the introduction of pension insurance for farmers from 1979, legal solutions have been changed voluntarily, and since 1982 and 1986, the obligation of farmers to pay pension contributions as well as all other pension insurance companies has been introduced. However, all indicators suggest that so far no pension insurance solution by farmers has led to significant positive shifts. In fact, while the total number of pensioners in Serbia is growing, the number of agricultural insurance companies is dropping. In early 2020, out of a total of 1.7 million pensioners, 175,459 were agricultural. The number of farmers' insurance has decreased by as many as two-thirds since the 1980s. Since 2009, when a maximum of 224 thousand 800 per month has been reached, the number of agricultural pensioners has been reduced by an average of less than five percent, and figures say more than 53 thousand potential agricultural pensioners have been lost in the last decade. The data that only every sixth farmer in Serbia regularly pays contributions to pension and disability insurance, and that 175 thousand are owed by 8000 600 euros, raises a serious question for unpaid contributions which of the farmers will manage to pay these debts in order to achieve their pension right. Of course, it's not that these agricultural producers don't want to pay these at the annual level, they simply don't have the economic power to pay for it. In Serbia, it is estimated that only between 50,000 and 70,000 agricultural holdings are engaged in a cost-effective production. For the sake of security and simpler procedures, many opt for life insurance with private companies. According to data from 30 billion dinars this April to pay off the state's agricultural pensions, only two billion are provided from contributions to pension and disability insurance for farmers. In light of the facts of insecurity of agricultural work, small cost-effectiveness is an important provision of Article 1. A bill establishing that the property of a farmer's insurance company does not cease in the event of a work contract, i.e. works on the basis of copyright and other work contracts, in which the work is carried out, as well as if they work on the territory of the Republic of Serbia for a foreign employer who does not have a registered representation in the Republic of Serbia, where they make compensation for the work done. For farmers, the proposed change is important because when it comes to the performance of contracted transactions, these are the most common jobs that are carried out in a short period of time, which may lead to the fact that the insured farmer who performs these jobs repeatedly in the course of the year changes the insurance base, which reduces the efficiency of the insurance implementation and increases the risk of error. The cross-reference of different data may conclude that a significant number of persons engaged in the landowners performs in addition to agriculture and various supplementary transactions under contract. In 2018, the number of persons engaged in agricultural affairs in Serbia amounted to about one million and three hundred thousand, making up an average of 2.4 persons per ownership. The ownership structure according to the number of persons employed in agricultural affairs sees a high share of 65% of the holdings on which one or two persons were engaged in agriculture. Compared to 2012, the number of persons working in agriculture in the Republic of Serbia has been reduced by 105,000. The highest number of persons employed is one or two persons in Vojvodina, which can be explained by the product structure of agriculture where production lines are dominated by non-workable production lines with higher use of machinery in farm operations, but also by higher employment of non-agricultural management members. If an analysis of the engagements of only family owners in the Vojvodina family owners carried out other activities, but more than in agriculture. Another activity was performed only 0.5% of the owners. However, out of the total employed workforce 256,577 employed by family owners in Vojvodina, there were only 918 permanent employees. The majority of the employees in the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia are members of the family of the owners and the share of their work is increasing. This suggests that a large amount of informal work is engaged in agriculture within family land and with the help of a relative labour force. In view of all the circumstances, the proposed provision of a law amending the criteria for the termination of the property of the farmer's insurance company and for this particular case, that it does not cease the property of the farmer's insurance on the basis of the contract is important, as the administration is simplified, farmers do not have to re-apply after each contract, and enables the Fund to make an official application for insurance, irrespective of whether the applicant is able to submit the application. The second important change concerns the precision and improvement relating to the data entered in the PIO parent records, insufficiently up-to-date parent records prevents the recording and collection of the contributions received or the accumulated debts from knowing who is the insurance company and who is not, who would have to be covered by compulsory insurance and who is not. It is certain that data from the parent records will be more accurate after the central population register brings together 13 different databases, from five different institutions, so that it will verify the validity of personal data, in addition to all the obligations of records, social security, data from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, catastra or local administrations will be available in one place. Crossing the databases will overcome a number of problems, as there have been cases of changes to the category of insurance without the knowledge of the insurance company, no insight into the amount of debt on behalf of unpaid contributions, there have been cases of only applying for pensions in future pensions finding out that it owes hundreds of thousands of dinars with a legally tight interest to pay off agricultural contributions and if it has never dealt with agriculture. In the 2019 report, the Citizens' Protector indicated that during that report and that period, he received a number of complaints that indicated that a number of persons were solely on the basis of the fact that members of the household of persons who owned the agricultural land had been unfounded for many years by contributions to the PIO without being informed of it. This is due to the fact that the current Law on PIO has not adequately defined the concept of insurance, farmers, no criteria for obtaining and suspending the property of insurance undertakings, no clear procedures for applying to insurance, alienating the property of insurance undertakings, checking out from insurance and setting out the end of insurance properties, nor the rest of insurance and a number of other issues, of importance for achieving the rights of farmers to pension and disability insurance. Dear fellow MPs, for the SVM parliamentary group, proposed amendments to the PIO Act, are the first step towards a fundamental change in the provisions of the applicable law, and we hope after 35 years, an important step towards reforming the pension system, in order to establish the criteria for the payment of contributions, for pension and disability insurance, small agricultural producers, that contributions are paid in proportion to the economic strength of the management, to cancel interest, to re-programme the main debt, as if each farmer were given the opportunity to decide whether to be part of the pension system or not. Reform is needed, the prime minister and minister of finance and the minister of agriculture confirmed it, and we already had a debate here at the National Assembly. Although we are aware that there can be a lot of criticism at the expense of our pension system, SVM will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7615	I thank Mr. Arpad. The next MP is Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7616	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Social Security Act, especially pension and disability insurance, in the nature of things, our PUPS Group "Tri P" is very interested in such solutions. The pension and disability insurance system is one complex legal system, which depends heavily on norms, in other laws and sublaws and subject to frequent changes. Therefore, and if the proposed amendments and additions to this law are not excessively extensive, they are nevertheless relevant to certain categories of users of the rights given to them. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, this way I would like to commend and point out the extraordinary efforts made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs in the previous period to improve the standards of pensioners. The measures taken are the result of system reforms of the pension system and a sign of stability, the economic progress of the Republic of Serbia. In the previous period, the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken a number of steps to show its readiness to cope with each crisis and to provide assistance to those most in need during this crisis, which are our oldest citizens, who themselves during the reform period, made their contribution to the recovery and stability of the pension and disability insurance system. Therefore, they are both the first to meet and whose standard this government takes care of, not only through a number of one-time cash aids, but also to help basic life supplies, medicines, but also through reform of the pension system, which should be stable and ensure that all pensioners are provided with safety and improvement of living standards. Thus, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which is before us, is part of the reform process of the pension and disability insurance system, which began in 2001. The economic results achieved by the measures taken in the previous period have overall made progress in this area possible. It is precisely thanks to the improvement of the economic situation, changes and additions of the Law on PIO from 2018 and 2019 that the pensioner's position has been improved, by establishing a favourable way of synchronising pensions, an orderly payment of one-time financial assistance to pensioners, and also giving the basis for the payment of the cash amount as an increase in pension. The amendments and additions to the Law that are before us have shown that all changes in this area are planned in a timely and long-term manner, as far as possible in view of current issues and problems. Thus, this bill is also planned to address certain issues and problems of a particular category of pension users. The basic reason why amendments and additions to the PIO Act have been made at the moment is the problem facing persons, which have been covered by the government's social programme for the resolution of surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation. It is about persons who were missing up to five years, i.e. at the time of the adoption of the social programme to receive pension rights. Option 5, i.e. up to two years, etc. Option three. After the adoption of the social programme, amendments to the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act of 2014, which changed the conditions for the exercise of age pension rights and introduced early retirement pensions, with effect from 1 January 2015. Because of the change in the conditions for obtaining age pension rights, i.e. that there was no longer an age pension based on the so-called so-called pension. the full staff, those persons did not meet even the prescribed conditions for the exercise of the right to retirement, so they were forced to opt for a temporary retirement which includes so-called pension. Penalties, i.e. a permanent reduction in pensions for each month of early retirement before the age of 65. Given that the government has been the holder of a programme to address surplus employees in the process of rationalisation and preparation for privatisation, it has been tried to prevent further adjustment of the problem. Despite all efforts, however, various attempts have not yielded lasting results, so to address this problem, it is accessible by system-based regulation of this problem, which will ensure the safety and certainty of the categories of pensioners. In this regard, it is good that now and formally within the law, pension cuts to certain categories of beneficiaries of early pensions entered into the framework of temporary measures, and in early retirement they left before amendments to the PIO law of 2014. The issue was essentially already resolved by one of the government's sublaw acts last November, which effectively abolished this pension reduction, so that in their position nothing will change, as they are already receiving more pensions. I think, Madam Minister, it would be correct and fair to make changes to the law in the coming period and similar arrangements for all persons who have 40 years of employment, regardless of age. With the current legal solutions, we punish people who have started working and worked honestly for 40 years and over, and their pensions are being unjustly reduced due to the age of 65. I ask the Minister to consider this proposal, as well as the possibility of ending the pension penalty after the age of 65. It's a great controversy, a great dissatisfaction of people, and I hope you find some opportunity to solve it too. Also, these changes are also made in detail regarding the determination of the insurance standings for the so-called so-called. frillers, which are recognised as self-employed in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act for a long time. In fact, these insurance companies are also accounted for in the same way as all insurance companies that make the contracted compensation. Such provisions, which are corrected and corrected by the existing text of the law, contain several other proposed members relating to the issue of easier data processing in the Central Insurance Register, the calculation of the amount of the cost of the funeral of deceased persons and others. On the other hand, there are also a number of new solutions that need to bring new rights to users and facilitate their position in dealing with the bodies of the Fund. The bill stipulates that the family pension beyond the death of the insurance company is not determined by a temporary retirement, but by an age or disability pension that would belong to the insurance company at the time of death, which brings family pensioners to a more favourable position based on the deceased user of the temporary retirement. There, certainly, as a former soldier and a participant of war acts, I consider the most important addition to the existing law that predicts that a possible family pension for the spouses of the Serb military's dead in the war is paid at the height of a 100% pension that would belong to the insurance company at the time of death. So, no reductions, like in other cases of family pension payments. In addition, the draft law also contains provisions governing the status of insurance companies of farmers carrying out contracted tasks, given the engagement of farmers in accordance with the rules on engagement in seasonal and other jobs. This subject was spoken of by my previous colleague, so I would not repeat myself in that sense. Finally, by supplementing Article 109, there is an additional obligation for other creditors, along with banks, that the PIO Fund must immediately recover pensions from deceased users, i.e. that they cannot charge their claims on the same amounts, which I think is good, as we have seen from the reasoning of the law that there are relatively high amounts of money that the Fund must later conduct long-term legal procedures for their return, which will further strengthen the financial stability of the PIO Fund. The reasons for the adoption of this law stem from the need to further regulate the PIO system and create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system on the one hand and create conditions to ensure legal certainty and the proper social situation of current and future pensioners. So we see that the bill covers those issues that required urgent regulation, but they certainly represent a positive step in the reform process. I would especially like to emphasise and commend, and I believe that this is the most interesting thing for those who will become part of this system in the future, which are future pension beneficiaries, that this proposal does not change the conditions for obtaining pension and disability insurance rights. This proposal is an indication that the reform of the pension and disability insurance system will continue in a positive direction, in order to further improve and improve the standards of all pensioners, which is one of the most important objectives of this government. Once again, I would like to commend the work of the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat and Social Affairs and to invite honourable fellow Members to support this bill unanimously in the voting day. With this change in mind, our PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P", will give its support in the day of voting for the adoption of this bill. At the same time, we from the PUPS expect to address other important issues related to the functioning of the PIO Fund and the overall pension insurance system in the next period. Therefore, as is known, PUPS and Mr Milan Krkobic have launched an open social dialogue on the necessity of reforming the pension-invalid system and the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Such solutions, comprehensive and stable, should completely exclude any influence of individuals, groups, parties, but also legitimate concern that pension is increased or not. For years, PUPS has been committed to harmonising pensions per formula of three Ps – pensions follow wages, and we believe that it is the most just formula to ensure pension growth with salary growth. This formula ensures that pensioners are not citizens of the second order. The current Law on PIO harmonize pensions according to the Swiss model predicts 50% with consumer prices growth and 50% with profit growth, which we had in 2005, which unfortunately then reduced the average pension to 42% of the average salary with the trend of further decline in the average pension. That's the situation we're in right now. For two years, since 2019, when we brought changes and changes and adopted the Swiss formula, the average pension from 49% fell to 45% of the average salary. I am particularly glad that the President of the Republic announces that in 2025, the average salary will be around 900 euros, respectively, 450 euros in average pension, but I see some ministers deny it, which is certainly not good. As a transitional solution, the PUPS would also be for the agreement between President Milan Krkobic and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic to improve the Swiss formula. It is also one of the fiscal council models for pensions to be coordinated according to the Slovenian model – 70% with salary growth and 30% with consumer prices. In this way, we would partially protect the pensioners, in order to create the difference between the average pension and the average salary, to obtain conditions for moving to the Three P formula (retired pensions). Also, it is necessary to install into the law a safeguard mechanism to protect the reduction of the average pension below some average wage ratio, for example, to regulate the new amendment to reduce the average pension from an average salary below a percentage, whether it will be 55% or 50%, that pension is extraordinaryly coordinated. This law, a respected minister, should regulate, in addition to the level of the average pension, and the height of the lowest pension. We at PUPS believe that the lowest pensions do not allow a decent life in old age and that this situation needs to be improved. One way is to determine the lowest pension, similar to setting the lowest labour price. Another way is to define a new social policy that would clearly and precisely see the material situation of citizens with small pensions. As it is said in time that Belgrade's pensioners, 65,000 of them with the lowest income, receive quarterly aid of 4,000 dinars, but an even better example when in 2012 to 2014, all pensioners in Serbia with small pensions, 400,000 of them also had quarterly aid of 4,000 dinars, which was at an annual level of 16,000 dinars, then popularly named as 13th pensions. Therefore, the PUPS considers that pension is an economic category and is defined by previous contributions to PIO. Therefore, a new social policy is needed to create social tickets for pensioners and provide the necessary funding for social contributions beyond the PIO Fund. Therefore, PUPS is not without reason in favour of the Three P formula, because it is the only model that guarantees that pensioners will be in a flat position with employees and will not be citizens of the second row. When we talk about this "Tri P" model, it means how much the rate of salary growth of professors, doctors, officers, police officers and other civil servants, so much and the percentage of pensions of professors, doctors, officers, police officers and other civil servants who are already retired, i.e. pensioners. If we had a case in 2014, when he threatened to go bankrupt, the government decided to cut salaries and pensions and then pensions were changed to the same percentage as salaries, then it is fair and fair to apply the same model to increasing wages and pensions. Therefore, the PUPS then supported the measures proposed by the Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, to stabilise public finances and thanks to these measures, the bankruptcy of the state was prevented, and public finances and the budget were stabilised. At that time, the formula “Tri P” (retirement follow-up) was valid, as was wage reduction, so were pensions. Pensioners agreed to be treated as well as their children and grandchildren who were in a working relationship. I'd like to mention one more thing that's been up to date these days. Over 100,000 old people don't have the right to retire. Although there is a general social assistance programme for the poor and the elderly in Serbia, a small number of older people exercise this right. PUPS President Milan Krkobbiæ and PUPS suggest introducing a minimum guaranteed pension of around 12,000 dinars as a form of social giving for all over 65 years of age who are not in pensioner status. It is also necessary for the Ministry to consider this proposal, because I believe that we as a state are socially responsible and solidarity. Since we consider it to be good legal proposals, the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P" will give its support in the voting day for their adoption. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session and vote for. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7617	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7618	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, the MP group of the SPS believes that what you said in the opening statement is of great importance and importance, which is to continue with the reform of the pension and disability insurance system and we fully understand that the overall reform cannot be implemented at this time because of the period which I hope is behind us and I hope it will be very soon behind us, and that is the period of the pandemic. But it's encouraging that you said that after that it will continue to reform pension and disability insurance. Otherwise, talking about pension and disability insurance for us from the SPS always has a special and great meaning, because we are talking about our oldest citizens, the generations that have made a great contribution and the progress of the state, a great contribution to the construction of the state, the generations on which pension trails leave, unfortunately, and numerous social changes, reforms that are being implemented, I would say, in the last 20 years. Our pensioners, with all of us, with representatives of the middle generation and representatives of the younger generation, shared fate, felt all the social consequences and earthquakes that, among other things, were spoken of. First of all, I mean the consequences of the transition, especially after the time of the robbery privatisations, when the sons and daughters were out of work, and just them, the pensioners were supporting them. Today, pensioners who may have lost their jobs, their businesses went bankrupt or sold, unfortunately, into bankruptcy. If we were to return to some earlier time, to say, in a pre-transitional period or pre-transitional time, we would remind ourselves that the PIO Fund was the most powerful financial institution in the country in its time. Not only have pensions been paid out of the Fund, but the PIO Fund, we could say, was also a kind of investment fund just that time period. Many public facilities, such as the Sava Centre in Belgrade, were built out of the funds of the PIO Fund, and in almost all our spas, citizens were in rehabilitation centres where pensioners could treat and rest were also built. We hope that period comes again. Today, we can say that Serbia, so economically empowered, is slowly returning to achieving that goal, to provide our pensioners, above all, with conditions to conduct their retirement days in a dignified way, a period of life that we call a team. the third era. What should always be pointed out is that many of our citizens in their third age are still creative and are still socially engaged. And society always counts on them, because those before our generations built this country, they kept the basic value of every society that makes progress and development possible, and that's work, and that's, above all, life from its work, a worthy life from its work. Socialists, as a social justice party, are pushing for a fair world of work, without discrimination, exploitation, for a dignified life of work that implies a salary that can be lived decently and for a decent third-year with well-deserved pensions for each of our citizens of Serbia. Pensions are an important part of our country's economic and social policy, because in Serbia, of about 2.5 million households, over 700,000 households, so some of the data that we have come to, lives only on pension. So the social status of these households depends exactly on the level of retirement. In this regard, for each socially responsible state, the issue of pensions is not just a matter of individual pensioners' waiting. That's far more than that. Today, in Serbia, the issue of pensions is seen precisely from the point of view of pensions in economic stabilisation and in the economic reforms that our government has been carrying out in recent years, which included pensions. To remind ourselves that in 2014 because of the situation found, it was necessary to implement a package of unpopular measures, including a reduction in pensions, a reduction in wages in the public sector. Pensions were reduced by a special law on the temporary reduction of pensions that was applied until 2018, when it was abolished, and then the new measure made up to the pensioners. As of 2018, pensions have increased at a certain pace and this trend of growth continues. For the social and economic stability of society, the relationship between the number of employees is very important and the number of employees is very important. The balance between the number of employees and the number of pensioners is not easy to maintain. This balance is influenced by different factors, from demographic to economic. Unfortunately, Serbia is becoming an old nation, so a positive relationship between the number of employees and the number of pensioners is difficult to maintain. According to the latest data, the number of pensioners in Serbia is around a million and 700 000, and the number of registered employees is close to two million and 300,000 employees. So, a pensioner comes in about 1.3, 1.4, which is still a lack of relationship, given the fact that pension is paid out of contributions that are currently being paid by current employees. It's the principle of generation solidarity based on our pension system. On this occasion, as an SPS parliamentary group, we would once again like to thank the representatives of the oldest population, because they have endured the biggest burden of the government's reform course, based on what I said in 2014. It's something that was inevitable, necessary and necessary to get the economic indicators and economic results we have today. The number of pensioners has grown in the last 20 years. In 2002, when the new Law on PIO was adopted, there were 1,511,497 pensioners, and in December 2019 there were 1,708,293, which is a slight decline, and in this year the number was about 1,700,000. The data for October 2020 are 1,692,697 pensioners, which is a slight decline in the number of pensioners. It is important and future to pay attention to the users of the lowest pensions, to find corrective factors or other forms of support for this category of pensioners. On the other hand, there is no need to violate the principle that pensions are calculated on the basis of the amount of contributions paid to PIO. I would like to remind you that the reform of the pension system in Serbia, you said, started in 2001, I am now not sure whether in 2001 or 2002, during a transition that was painful for the economy, and thus for the economic sustainability of the pension fund that was to be reformed along with the model of pension accounting. The PIO system has suffered seven reforms, which were mostly restrictive and unfortunately restrictive, in order to create a model that should balance the economic sustainability of the system and the need to ensure legal certainty and the proper social position of the current and future generations of pensioners, through the level of pensions of which citizens have earned, working and paying for a regulated contribution to the PIO, can live properly. In this sense, the draft law that we are talking about today and which is before us represents a continuation of the regulation of the PIO system in the framework of the reforms that have been launched, and in order to correct the previously prescribed restrictive measures in the pension sector. One of the key issues that have already been discussed, which is being addressed by these amendments to the PIO Act, is the problem that has arisen for two early retirement groups, those users who before 2014 accepted the government's social programme to resolve surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring or preparation for the privatisation of enterprises, and because of the changed conditions for the achievement of pension rights, they were created by amendments to the PIO Law in 2014, they were unable to exercise the right to full retirement pension because these changes introduced the category of early retirement pension. It is the users of the social programme that have been defined in due time for two types of compensation, and this is for special cash compensation. This is a category of extra employees who were missing up to five years of employment until the first retirement or pension leave conditions were met, and a category of extra employees who were missing two years until the first retirement conditions were met. As the Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO adopted in 2014 and which was applied from 1 January 2015, the age limit for obtaining age pension rights for both gender–65 years for men, i.e. the gradual rise of age limits for women to 65 years and the established category of early retirement, this is the category of users of the Social Programme of the Government, by force of the law, to early retirement, and not to full retirement, in which it would go according to earlier regulations. So, the biggest interference for the categories listed in so-called so-called "introductory exposure", option three and option five has become a permanent legal downsizing of early retirement due to the way these pensions are accounted for. This is recognised as a significant problem, and this is important, and also a certain kind of discrimination, so that these amendments to the law are solved permanently by establishing in these categories the amount of early retirement pension in these categories of users of the law at the level of full age pension and allowing for the payment of the difference between the amount of early retirement pension they have made and the full age pensions they would have the right to make. These amendments and amendments to the law also set deadlines for these categories of early retirement beneficiaries to apply to the PIO Fund for payouts. I would like to note that other categories of users who have gone into early retirement have also been permanently affected by so-called "the early retirement". penals, which means that for every month since their early retirement, they lacked up to 65 years, they took away 0.34% of the pension they would have made at age 65. These pens are permanently applied at the age of 65. I noticed that this problem was also present during the public debate in the draft of this legislative proposal. For the time being, however, the correction proposed by this law covers only those users who have defined themselves as some of the government's social programmes before retirement, and therefore I say that it is important that you point out in the opening statement that we will continue to reform the PIO and we believe that this issue will also be resolved through the continuation of this reform. On the other hand, strategically observed, pension reduction measures and the introduction of categories of early retirement pensions that were restrictive gave positive effects on the macroeconomic plan, as the budget deficit was reduced, and the percentage of financing of pensions from the budget was reduced, as well as tasks to cover the deficits. These measures, however viewed as restrictions, were essentially preserved by the PIO Fund. All this says precisely in support of the fact that the permanent stability of the PIO system requires its alignment with demographic movements, but also that the basic foundation of a stable and healthy pension-inhabitation system must be further economic development of the country, new investment, thus new employment. That is exactly the path that both the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have routed. In addition to that change, which is essential, I would like to point out the change in the law that determines the family pension of a spouse, or an extramarital partner of a professional military person who died during the actions or military service, at the height of a 100% pension that would belong to the insurance company at the time of death. A well - proposed solution to which, unfortunately, funeral expenses will be paid at the height applicable on the day of the death of the insurance company. It is also good that these costs will be harmonised in the way pensions are coordinated. I would like to mention another amendment to the law, and it refers to the status of all pensioners whose pensions are lower than the minimum amount of pensions, it is about amending Article 77, equalising themselves with the users of domestic lowest pensions with users who have acquired their pensions abroad. The equality of these categories of persons is achieved by calculating and paying the difference between their pensions and the minimum amount of pensions for both domestic and foreign pensioners. This correction has a social component and we certainly welcome it as a parliamentary SPS group. There's a lot of talk about big pension differences. It is important to say that these differences stem first of all from the length of work, from the degree of education, from the jobs at which the insurance company worked, or from the height of the salary it made, as well as from the amount of contributions paid for pension and disability insurance. Of course, there are and should be corrective factors in the retirement formula that should reduce that difference. The state of Serbia is today a socially responsible state, and all sectoral policies are being created and run so that our citizens can live better. Of course we will accept these amendments and additions to the Law, but what I would like to point out once again, that 2014 was a key and once again thanks to the oldest population on the burden they took on themselves during the reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because in 2014, Serbia was at a crossroads. It actually existed twice. One time, I would say, a list of good wishes, what citizens would like to hear and what would be nice to hear, and what, if realised, would lead to financial collapse and financial bankruptcy. The second time was the necessary path, what is necessary, which is inevitable, and that is the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a brave political decision, but it is something that allowed us to have a healthy system today, based on sound foundations. So, not in politics and politics, but in life and in the economy. Today, too, there is no need for Serbia to be in debt, because very often it is said by one part of the opposition that Serbia is in debt. So, Serbia today is not in charge of paying salaries and pensions, but of borrowings going towards development, towards the future. When we talked about the reform course of the Government of Serbia in 2014, we all suffered mostly criticism, and those in-laws for the SPS, but I would say first of all to the guardians for the electoral body of the SPS, told us that we had issued ideas on the left, that like the rest of our coalition partners, we had kidnapped someone's pensions, kidnapped someone's salaries in the public sector, not realizing in fact that these were measures to save Serbia's economy, measures concerning Serbia's future and measures concerning the future of every Serbian citizen. As far as the SPS is concerned, we are 30, here for 31 years, present on the political scene of Serbia and surely for these first 31 years of existence and political action there are things that citizens can blame us for, but they can never resent and honor us for one thing, and that is that at any time, at any time, we have been against our country and their people. I'm going to do a digression that has absolutely no touch points with today's topic, but even in the 1990s, we've heard of these quasi oppositionists - surrender, betrayal, and in 2000, when they took responsibility, the basis for the defence of national and state interests was the political assets of the 1990s, which are the Dayton Agreement and Resolution 1244. So we're socialists, but we can't be socialists, utopians. And of course, between what fairy tales are, which are stories that citizens would like to hear and what sounds nice and what is inevitable, which is the necessity, which is reality, something that is necessary to, as I said, come to a healthy system based on sound foundations and which is the interest of citizens, we always choose the interest of citizens of Serbia. Otherwise, if it hadn't been for 2014 if it hadn't been for the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia, what would have happened since March of last year? Could the system work? And not only does it work, could such successful economic indicators be realized? So, could the state accept this much of a crisis on its own? Could it be possible, through the measure packages, first of all to allocate 800 billion dinars, then 12.7% of GDP, then 257.1 billion dinars, which is 4.2% of GDP, a total of 17.2% of GDP? Is there a country in the world that has taken this great burden of crisis upon itself? Is there a country in the world that increased pensions by 5.9% during the pandemic period, increased public sector salaries by 1.5% first and then 3.5%, minimum labour prices by 6.5%, health care institutions and healthcare workers by 6%, single-time assistance for both pensioners and health workers? So, it wouldn't have been all that if it hadn't been for 2014 to lay the groundwork, which is the reform course of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, the SPS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support the proposed changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7619	Thank you. For our children, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7620	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, whenever there is talk of a law that regulates the position and reception of our pensioners, it always attracts a great deal of public attention, but immediately to clarify at the beginning of my presentation, pensioners in the Republic of Serbia are not citizens of second order and do not threaten them while Alexander Vukic and SNS are in power. So let's get this straight. It was a time when there were first and second-row citizens in Serbia. They're still trying today, especially those of the former regime to determine who the citizens of the front row are. The former regime of course puts itself there, Dragan Gilas, that they are some kind of intellectual elite and that currently Serbia is ruled by, they say, the credentials of Serbia by illiterate and semi-literate workers, peasants, pensioners, and that simply because of that relationship they cannot come to power in the Republic of Serbia. They shared both our pensioners and our employees while they were in power on the citizens of the first and second order. The first thing you notice in the law -- one decent and fine way is the company in restructuring. But somebody tell me what companies are, which are enterprises in restructuring, how did these enterprises in restructuring come into existence, why did the state have to take care of these enterprises in restructuring, how did the current government find them, and how did the former regime run them? These are questions which are and how are related to the reasons for the adoption of this law. The restructure companies were primarily enterprises of social capital that were in the privatisation process and the privatisation was never completed or more niggers and worse -- they were privatised, destroyed, put under burden by various banks, and then returned to the Republic of Serbia with all these burdens to take care of them and to secure earnings for employees of these enterprises in restructuring. We had a lot in Serbia. In my opinion, one of the most dramatic examples is certainly Sartid, Azotara Panchevo, because what happened in 2011 and 2012? "Ju Es style" is out of fear that their capital does not fall here in the Republic of Serbia because of the poor management of public finances and the poor behaviour of the state on the financial market has escaped from Serbia, leaving Sartid with $450m in debts, the Republic of Serbia received it for a single dollar. These employees were to be taken care of until a new strategic partner was found, to enable the process of production to continue, and to provide funds for the remuneration of employees. During that period, while then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's government was trying to find a solution to, say, Sartid, was attacked by the former regime for investing money in the Sartid and it is better to have the Sartid employees fired and the factory closed. This was their relationship to “Sartid. ” They also treated RTB Bor in a similar way. They claimed that 30, 40, 50m euros each month were needed to pay off profits, that it was coming from the Republic of Serbia's budget and that all employees of RTB Bor should be fired and the mines closed. Something similar was in “Azotara. ” That's when they were ex-government. How did they treat it while they were in power? On the pretext that these companies should not be shut down and large amounts of money closed have been directed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. They appointed as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Business as directors in these enterprises that were in restructuring. You know what the only job I'd like those directors? To compete who will buy a better official car, whose car will be more expensive. This was how they treated restructure companies and employees. Every time we talk about pensions and these fiscal consolidation measures that took place in 2014 it is impossible for those who attack Serbia's citizens not to tell the truth about where pensions are financed, where our PIO fund is being filled. I guess it fills from the real sector, from real sector employees, later in the state sector, the state administration, etc. How much was the unemployment rate 2012, 2013 when the regime changed in the Republic of Serbia, when Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and others lost power? The unemployed were 28%. The state had to be in debt to pay not only pensions, but also public sector profits. The state had to pay off obligations to various suppliers and public workers when obligations were made during the former regime, and they were not paid within those deadlines and as planned by the laws, above all by the Budget Law. Then we began to introduce fiscal consolidation measures that, quite agree, are completely unpopular, they're difficult, but it was a question of whether it could be worth the profits, pensions, whether the state could function. Of course there will always be those who will rebel because of it. The vast majority of pensioners accepted these measures as necessary. We're grateful to them for that. Of course, there were dissatisfied ones. It's just that I have to ask a question of how legitimately dissatisfied they were? You know, those who have taken fiscal consolidation measures and reduced their pensions mostly came from the real sector. They were ordinary workers, working on their factories, providing salaries and pensions for the pensioners at the time, and salaries for the employees of the then state administration. They thus contributed to Serbia's economic development. Who was the most rebelling? Those who, even during the working century, had been on state mangers and considered the Republic of Serbia a milk cow, that it should only be taken. They were the main opponents of the fiscal consolidation measure, not to mention that they were also with the largest pensions, which were often higher than the ministerial salaries. About that problem some other time, when the time comes. We are now in a position to remove those measures that were implemented in 2014 for the survival of the state and for the survival of the economic system of the illogical error, which is that those of our employees who have accepted the social programme and early retirement if they lacked a certain number of years of work experience to achieve their full pension right to do so. Because, above all, today, when the reforms we started to implement in 2014 have produced some results, and above all it is seen in how tough Serbian economy is at those difficult times when many countries that were more economically developed and advanced than Serbia have been very difficult to bear the pandemic caused by the virus, the Serbian economy thanks to reforms launched by Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic has shown a great deal of toughness and resilience, which certainly shows that those measures we started in 2014 were correct, timely and effective on Serbian economy. You can imagine today if we hadn't implemented these measures, what would be the situation of the Republic of Serbia. We wouldn't have a health system that could provide health care to our citizens in this epidemic that hit us, us and the rest of the world. We wouldn't have the drugs, we wouldn't have the equipment, we wouldn't have the resources to build two new hospitals. We wouldn't have the means to re-launch our "Torlak" to produce vaccines, we wouldn't have the means or the vaccine to buy, but we would wait for charity as individual poor countries today benefiting from countries around the world. In such a Serbia, Dragan Djilas and Boris Tadic led us to be a third-world country, to depend on others, not to have our own economy, not to have our own health system and to live on child charity. Today Serbia is a completely different country than the one they introduced us to. I must also say to those who are so concerned about the fate of pensioners who have been hit by the fiscal consolidation measure and are constantly asking for something back, it would be best to address the former regime, because, you know, when it comes to pensions, all the savings that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly have implemented by passing laws, and when it comes to pensioners, it is hardly something like 600m euros. That was the amount of pension savings during the fiscal consolidation measure. However, while a gentleman was in power, his personal wealth increased by so much money. If they want gentlemen who are unhappy with the fiscal consolidation measures, let them get together nicely, go to the SP party, is that what they call it, and let them ask Dragan Gilas to pay them back the money he took from them while he exercised power. That's their 600 million euros, not the Gilas. It is that now they are all over exotic destinations in the world, on some islands that I've never heard of exist, it just shows one very serious intention to hide and source where that money came from and to whom that money belongs. Let dissatisfied pensioners ask him to return to them what Dragan Gilas took from them, which he took from them, not only from them, but from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Ask them to return the money they didn't give to military pensioners in 2008, but they had to demand their rights in court. Ponoš, Šutanovac and the rest of the team did not give, but the military pensioners had their rights to seek in court, and the very power of Alexander Vukic had to pay for what they were avoiding back then, playing our military pensioners. Mr Delic and the others, please, ask Dragan Gilas to return your money, do not speak for all pensioners. Those pensioners, who have indeed earned their salaries and profits in the real sector, have taken fiscal consolidation measures. Those who have spent their whole life on state mangers, who viewed Serbia as a milk cow, they felt that today, and today should be so and so continue. There will be no more of that. As for Dragan Gilas and his desire to return to political life again, you can imagine how much he would now increase his wealth because Serbia is far richer, more orderly, more modern state than when he ruled the Republic of Serbia. The only motive for him to return to power again is to regain the state registers and increase his wealth by several hundred million euros. I see no reason for Serbian citizens to support it more. This law should simply be adopted as a law which, by implementing exorcised measures, brings one number of our pensioners into equality and that they will accordingly exercise their full pension rights, and that they have not been subject to the implementation of these special extortions that took place in 2014. I expect my colleagues from the SNS to support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7621	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we will move on to the list of speakers, but before we do that, one notice. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We move on to the list of speakers The Word has a People's MP Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7622	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the Justice and Reconciliation Party and our parliamentary club, means we as the strongest Bosniak party in the voting day will vote for the adoption of this law. One of the reasons why we support the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that of a socially responsible policy. This law and these amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act that we are discussing today and which we are going to vote on today are necessary. All of this that we are discussing today would be excessive if we had not had and we didn't have something called fiscal consolidation, a full budget from which we can, not only pay salaries and pensions, but in recent years we have had an increase in wages and pensions, there is a responsible social policy towards our pensioners, and we have had one-time assistance towards pensioners, so it's a group of our parents, the most vulnerable group of our citizens and citizens, but we have had packages and help in particular at this time of the pandemic when we were all particularly at risk to all citizens and citizens. So we live in a country that has public finances and that's not just what I or my colleagues say here in parliament, but that's proof and that's what international monetary institutions say. What I want to point out is that in the decades behind us, we've had privatisation. In most cases, it was a robbery privatisation where workers stayed on the street, where their rights were not respected. Most of us here come from such families or knows someone who is the victim of this privatisation and what is the obligation of us MPs here in the Assembly is that how much we are able to protect these people and make a legislative framework so that something like this never happens again. What I want to point out is that I come from Sandzak, from the part of Serbia where this privatisation has been particularly felt and that we have a large number of former giants who have failed, such as the textile combination "Ljubisa Miodragovic", "Vojin Popovic" in Novi Pazar, and I want to point out that now is the best time for the Sanjak municipalities, and we often talk about it, but what is particularly important is said by the president of the state and the Prime Minister, they get one big foreign investment especially Novi Pazar and especially Prepolje. To be able to work and develop without a highway is also evidence of a municipality called Priboj where we have a "Fap" that has been launched and where we have a free zone that is there, once a valley of hunger, made a successful local story. In voting day, we will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7623	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7624	Thank you. I think it is important to remind myself of the basic objectives and principles of the mandatory pension system. There is, above all, a reduction in poverty in age, so-called the absolute standard of living and maintenance of income and living standards at the level at which it existed, i.e. similar to that which existed during the working age of each individual. However, ensuring an adequate level of pension requires increasing expenditure from the state and it is not easy to balance between income and expenditure that should be allocated for these purposes, and that is exactly what the challenge of pension reforms today, not only in our country, bigger and everywhere in the world, is, therefore, the basic objectives of EU pension policy are, among other things, adequate and financially sustainable pensions. What further complicates reform is the opposite of these two objectives. On the one hand, adequate pensions are collected by the entire state system, and on the other hand, any savings question the adequateness of pensions themselves. That is why good reform means finding the right balance and balance between these two equally important objectives. The experience that we have based on the reforms that were carried out in 2005 warns us that frequent changes in this system without some fundamental thinking and analysis, both financial effects and the effects that will reflect on the pensioner standard itself are not good and we really need to make sure that they are not practice and in the next period. This specifically refers to a system such as a pension whose changes concern a large number of people, and precisely because this is a large system that includes a large number of people and has been on it so far, and is expected in the next period, it is easiest to cut and therefore should be avoided in every possible sense. Therefore, it should be borne in mind that pension reform must always meet both objectives, which are adequateness and financial sustainability. The most important changes in the proposed law that we are discussing today concern the establishment of rights for users from so-called. options five and options three, which my colleagues have already talked about today, and according to the government's November 2020 conclusion, more specifically those users shall be provided with the payment of the difference between the amount of early retirement pension and retirement. Therefore, it is about persons who have accepted the Government of the Republic of Serbia's programme for the resolution of surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation. However, due to changes to the 2014 law, instead of retirement pensions, they were entitled to early retirement pensions with a permanent reduction in pension amounts. What's this really about? The Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO from 2014 changed the conditions for the exercise of age pension rights, i.e. the age limit for obtaining age pension rights for both half to 65 years and introduced, not so popular, early retirement pensions, i.e. permanent pension cuts or as we call it – penals. The introduction of early retirement has negatively affected the users of the social programme, i.e. Those who have been defined as special cash compensation from option 5, or 3, which I just spoke about, and the right to lift a pension penalty 65 years ago have about 7,000 workers who, contrary to their will, had to retire because of the fact that their companies had gone bankrupt or restructuring, and they had two or five more years to retire. The law undoubtedly represents a continuation of the regulation of the PIO system in the framework of a reform launched as early as 2002. Therefore, the aim is to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, for fair security, but also for the appropriate social situation and for the current and future pensioners. The reform, as we know, has so far had its seven stages of change, and the measures that were implemented mostly did not have some positive connotation, but have led to more or less positive results. I'm thinking about stopping the deficit growth and reducing the donations that are allocated to these purposes from the budget. That is why the time has come to devote ourselves to positive measures, or measures that will have a positive effect on pensioners. As one of the programme principles of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is labour ethics and social security, it implies the safety of each individual and his family, so the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7625	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Sanja Jefic Brankovic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is half. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, National MP Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7626	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, Unique Serbia always supports measures to strengthen the pension fund, which also increases the security and regularity of pension payments to our citizens and, at the very beginning, I want to remove a kind of speculation that has arisen in public because of future pensioners, and has followed the proposed amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Act. In fact, the public has raised tensions that this proposal strengthens the retirement age after 65 years for women and men. Anyone who had read the law, listened to a public debate or followed the media could see that there was no point in talking about it and that we are not discussing it at all today, nor is it one of the constituent amendments, or one of the amendments to the proposed law. Today, we are solving problems that have arisen for users of early retirement, which have adopted the government's social programme to solve surplus employees in the rationalisation process. These are those persons who could not exercise the right to retirement because of the changed conditions for the exercise of this 2014 right. The positive economic results enabled pension and disability insurance systems in 2018 and 2019 to follow the measures that have a positive impact on insurance companies as well as on the functioning of the system in general, in particular with regard to the arrangement of the parent records of the Republic Fund for PIO. The key factor for the long-term stabilisation of the PIO system lies primarily in the development of the country, new investment and employment, which improves the relationship between pensioners and employees. If we look at the latest statistics, the relationship between workers and pensioners in Serbia has improved and is more than 1.3 workers compared to pensioners, which is the result of an increase in the employment rate in the last few years, because the principle of the functioning of the pension fund, as people say, is that current employees provide pensions for our pensioners and so on. They always honor us here that we mention the former government, although it is not present here, is not present because the people did not want them, but they have left the long-term consequences of the functioning of this country, especially the pension fund. When we look at statistics, if I've already explained how pensions are paid, from the paril of the month 2012, that's the last year of their rule, unemployment was over 26%. According to the latest 2020 statistics, and at the time of the pandemic, unemployment in Serbia is below 10%. Of course, in 2011, 2010, or I don't know what years ago, they had to raise loans to pay their pensions, and that pension regularity would be safe, because otherwise they couldn't make millions and millions of euros and couldn't increase their accounts, we heard, in many countries around the world. In order not to deal with many of them, Serbia has since 2020, through the adoption of the Swiss formula, made it possible for the pension fund to be sustainable, but also foresight to increase pensions. We have seen that many countries in the region, Hungary, Bulgaria, Croatia, have tried to replace the public pension system with private pensions, and this has proved to be bad, so they are now abolishing these mandatory pension funds. Serbia is on the right track, Western European trends are being followed. This means that the first pension pillar is reformed, made sustainable, and voluntary funds are stimulated. I would also touch on the announced changes relating to the agricultural and insurance companies of the free operation, the so-called frillers. When I say agricultural insurance, the first association has accumulated the decades-long debt of PIO pensioners. I know that this government with the experts of the World Bank has been working for a long time to solve this problem, which has been going on since 1986, and is trying to end it as soon as possible. The most acceptable model is sought, which would resolve the PIO fund's debt to a farmer, currently over two billion euros. For years, it has been a reform of PIO insurance for farmers, as it is practically unsustainable. This has resulted in a drastic reduction in the number of agricultural pensioners back in years. Thanks to all the measures taken over the past period, conditions have been created for the next step in order to improve the situation of these insurance companies. Minister Nedimovic announced that future taxes and contributions will not be the same for all farmers, but will depend on the economic value of the land. It is crucial to find a criterion by which payment of farmers' contributions to the PIO Fund will be fair and proportionate to the size of the land. But there is also a need to take care of how productive this land is or how useful it is. I know cases where people have completely useless forests that are neither accessible nor can be exploited and therefore have no right to social security without talking about agricultural security debts. Unique Serbia knows that this government takes care of all pensioners, that it is a priority to preserve and stability of the pension fund, that in the previous period, in addition to all the economic difficulties the pandemic has brought to the world, we have managed to preserve both jobs and regularity of pension payments and to increase them. Due to all of the above, the Single Serbia voting day will support the proposed amendments to the law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7627	I would like to thank the vice president of the National Assembly. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7628	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, a respected minister, respected fellow Members of Parliament, for every social justice society, the issue of the pension system is among the key social issues, as it concerns a very sensitive and numerous group of citizens, which are pensioners. With regard to our oldest citizens, who have spent their entire working lives contributing to the development of our country, we as a society measure humanity in action. Therefore, the legal framework governing pension issues must have both a human and a socially responsible component. This relationship is essentially like a relationship between ancestors and descendants, in the best sense of the word. They need to have a decent life in the so-called Third Age. Our pension system was changing depending on the character of the political system we were living in. As a socialist, I can't help but mention the age of socialism, when our pensioners were able to live easily from their pensions, they had free treatment, and they could also use vacation and treatment for free in all spas. Of course, times are different today, today we live in a different social, economic and political environment. The period of economic and social recession due to transition and illegal privatisation today is, fortunately, behind us. So today we can turn to development and good development results after a restrictive period, including a reduction in pensions, and thus a greater concern for our pensioners. That is why we are working today to improve legal solutions in the area of pension and disability insurance. The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act should be such as to aim at creating conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system, thus ensuring legal certainty and adequate social status for both the current and all future generations of pensioners. As a result, the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly a Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which was prepared by the competent ministry after a public debate. We know that the pension policy measures that have been implemented so far have been mostly restrictive, but have yielded positive results that are seen through the halting of deficit growth and the reduction of grants to cover deficits from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is precisely positive economic results and stability of the economy of the Republic of Serbia that, following restrictive measures in previous years in the pension and disability insurance system since 2018 and 2019, the following are the measures that positively affect pensioners and pensioners and the functioning of pension and disability insurance, in general. In particular, by regulating the birth records of the Republic Fund for PIO, the successes of the Serbian economy are confirmed by many European economic experts. Reminders for the sake of this, I will point out these measures, including increasing pensioners' income by paying, increasing pensions, harmonising pensions, stopping the law on the temporary management of pension payment methods, paying out financial assistance to the users of RFO funds for PIO, cash aid during the pandemic and others. One, perhaps the most important factor for the long-term stabilisation of the pension and disability insurance system, lies primarily in the development of the country, new investment and employment, thus improving the relationship between the number of insurance workers and the number of pensioners, since the system is financed by the principle of solidarity among generations, i.e. that current employees finance pensioners. Speaking of pensioners, I will point out that about 1.7 million pensioners live in our country, the most of which is 84.24%, followed by agricultural pensions 10.2%, and the least in the category of independent employment is 5.63%. By type of right, senior pensioners are 1,084.750 with 64.5% in total, disabled 261,124 with 15.5% and family 335.742 with 20%. The basic reason for the adoption of this bill stems from the need to address the problem created for early retirement beneficiaries, which, because of the government's social programme for the resolution of surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation, could not exercise the right to an age pension due to the changed conditions for the exercise of this right in 2014. The Law amending and supplementing the Retirement and Disability Insurance Act of 2014 which began to apply from 1 January 2015, changed the conditions for the exercise of age pension rights, i.e. raised the age limit for obtaining age pension rights for both sexes, 65 years for men and at least 15 years of insurance training, then gradually raising age limits for women to 65 years of life, starting from 2015 to 2032. These amendments introduced a category of early retirement, with these pensions permanently reduced by the use of so-called pensions. Pencil. The introduction of early retirement has negatively affected users of the social programme who have been identified as special cash compensation and cash compensation. In the meantime, the government concluded that at the time of termination of the employment relationship and the exercise of the right to special cash compensation or compensation, according to this programme, until the first conditions for the exercise of pension rights, in accordance with the applicable rules, were missing for up to five years, it paid the difference between the amount of retirement pension that would have been achieved by applying the PIO rules which was valid at the time of the exercise of the right of special cash compensation and the amount of early retirement pension. It was also found that this difference was paid to persons who had been declared redundant, who at the time of termination of the early relationship and the exercise of the right to cash compensation, in accordance with the employment rules, until the first conditions for the exercise of pension rights were met, in accordance with the rules in force at that time, were missing up to two years. Thus, these amendments to the Law will make temporary retirement for these two categories of users equal to the amount of retirement pension they would be entitled to according to the rules on PIO until then. In this way, the question of pensions of former beneficiaries of the government's social programme is permanently resolved. In addition to this proposal, this law brings all family pension beneficiaries into an equal position, so that the family pension after the death of the insurance company is not determined by early retirement, but by an old or disabled pension that would belong to the insurance company at the time of death. Then, the problem that arises with the amount of pension paid after the death of users in connection with trustees who refuse to act on the request of the Fund to suspend the refund paid to the trustee after the death of the right-holders. The harmonisation and precision of the provisions relating to the case where a farmer performs contracted tasks, then the establishment of an out-of-marriage community, shall also apply to insurance companies of the so-called ‘species’. Frillers, to differences to the minimum amount of pensions for beneficiaries below the minimum amount of pension, who have made a foreign pension. It is also very important that changes related to the entry of data into the home records, i.e. that their erasure from yourself, the Fund's right to claim compensation for damage done and the person who caused the need for assistance and care of another person are included under change. The question of the conditions for payment of funeral expenses has also been resolved. You, a distinguished minister, said in your statement that the PIO reform is continuing. I would take the chance to ask - was it considered to be resolved in some subsequent period and a group of users of early retirement whose temporary pensions are permanently burdened with negative points and have to receive a pension from so-called. penals? In the meantime, many of them gained conditions for gaining the right to full age pension, so they turned 65 years old, and they have a full limit of insurance training, so-called. I've been working on it. Their request is also to receive a reduced pension up to 65 years of age and then to obtain the right to full retirement. During their working hours, they too made contributions to pension and disability insurance in the full amount of insurance training. To conclude, the planned amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act continue the process of normative regulation in the areas of pension and disability insurance. The main objective of these changes is to adapt compulsory pension and disability insurance, as a basic part of the pension system, demographic change, economic circumstances, but also with the strategic definition of the state to establish a modern and efficient administration. Positive effects of amendments and additions to the Law contribute to the improvement of the economic environment, thus facilitating the creation of new and more efficient business of existing operators. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of these laws' proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7629	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Nevena Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7630	The President-in-Office, respected minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is now on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, whose adoption of all restructuring workers who have retired before the adoption of amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, who have used social assistance for five or two years until retirement, will ensure that these latest amendments of the Law are paid the difference between the amount of early retirement pension and retirement pension. Their pension checks will be paid in full in the future. In this way they are practically brought into an equal position, all those who have accepted the Government of Serbia's programme to resolve surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation, but have been forced to receive early retirement pensions in relation to an age pension with a permanent reduction in the amount paid. The long-standing problem of these workers is now already retired, will be resolved and will no longer be accounted for so-called. Penalties on pension. We all know that pensioners are the ones who took on the greatest burden of reforms and fiscal consolidation measures, which were implemented in 2014, and thanks to their understanding and support, we have today a state that has a strong economy and has stable finances. They felt the greatest burden at the time of the pandemic of the coronary virus, especially during the period when the emergency was in effect and when they had a movement ban, especially the faces over 65 years old, but at those times they also showed understanding, and I think that, more precisely, the policy that Alexander Vukic conducted and how they turned, and how he cares about our oldest citizens and we see that, and based on the fact, not only are pensions today regular, but also on the fact that they are constantly growing. We can observe that, regardless of all the efforts it makes, President Alexander Vukic, the government that follows his policy, but also all of us here in parliament, regardless of all these efforts, I simply cannot take away the impression that is constantly being placed by, and I must say, the tycoon media machinery, in the hands of one of us all, a well-known man. Then you are able to read on a daily basis the statements that are inspired by these very media, to read the publications of his speakers, constructed without any meaning and simply ask yourself – is it possible for anyone who says to himself that he has an engineering brain, through his portals and megaphones, to show only political impotence, lowness and absence of any kind of morality and human honor. And then you get an address from the village's political bird, Marinika Tepic, who faces citizens with criticism at the expense of opening another new factory in Serbia. You have to ask yourselves, is that normal? It is clear to all of us that an associate, or perhaps a better said worker, Dragan Gilas, is obviously well paid to play the role of critics of everything that is done in our country. And that constantly, day by day, muds every new idea, every result, every success and everything that leads to Serbia's progress and improvement, and everything that contributes to better citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But to her shame, and to the harm of her boss Dragan Gilas, unfortunately for them, I apologize, new factories are opening all over Serbia from the northernmost point to the southernmost point of our country. If you start from place to place, from municipality to municipality, from city to city, at every step you can see a new factory, or some new investment, some new drive that Alexander Vukic has brought to Serbia, arguing with his authority and trying to make such an economic and investment environment from Serbia, which will be interesting and will be of practical interest to many foreign companies. For this reason, the unemployment rate in Serbia is at a record low. We certainly could not see such a situation at a time of such experts, who are able to comment negatively and see a flaw in the opening of another new factory in Serbia. I guess, in their opinion, we don't need these many highways that are reality today and that we're proud of. And we are proud of the fact that even eight new highways will be built in Serbia by the end of this year. I have to refer to another statement that comes from the media mentioned and, of course, expressed by all the well-known women who, I don't even know how many parties have changed so far, and talks about lustration, quotes – calls for the lustration of those who have violated human rights to freedom of choice, information, opinions and expressions. Well, isn't that what a woman, who asked drug dealers and criminals to move out people who, in her opinion, are unsuitable from Panchev? Is that what he's talking about, someone who falsely accused the Serbian people of genocide in Srebrenica, because that's what someone who's hallucinated is talking to us about and who instead of the girls in Morovic is seeing drugs, or the one who's been misusing, while she's at the opportunity, the position of the province's secretary? Is she supposed to talk about it? I think it's clear what kind of policy they're trying to impose on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's quite simple and you can compare any segment of life today with that period that was in their time. Of course, at that time, it was better, but only for them. The alternative to today's policy led by Aleksandar Vucic, which they are trying to impose on citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is based solely on hate speeches, on threats, on calls for murder, and it is certainly not Serbia that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia want. And not only, and that's very important, and not only does Serbia not want to go back to the dark past, we don't want to beat in place and be in this position that we are in today, but we want to work further to improve our country, to look to the future and to make Serbia a more modern and modern place for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7631	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7632	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. The Justice and Reconciliation Party is founded on its principles of social justice where a special place takes care of the old and those who brought us to this world and who are the most responsible for everything we enjoy today, so every kind of shift in the improvement of their status is supported and therefore we welcome these changes of laws that will help pensioners and all those who need this kind of assistance to be more adequately stimulated by the financial benefits that are necessary to have a decent life. Of course, this is a good shift, but we here are constantly pointing to some of the other things that we need to do in this series, and as for the status of certain workers who are victims of those bad privatisations that unfortunately didn't even have the opportunity to have these programs that we're talking about today, they've just become the victim of these tycoon bad criminal privatisations where their giants went crazy, and they've been expelled after 20, 30 years of working in these giants, out there, without the right to compensate. We specifically mentioned it here when it comes to PIC Cave and other workers. Now here I want to underline once again that it is necessary to find a solution in the next period, to meet them, too, in order to welcome their working lives that they have spent in these companies and where they have been allocated from their profits for PIO funds and for everything else, to enjoy all these benefits. Of course, we've been told many times by the government that they're familiar with this problem, that they're looking for the best solution, and we believe that, if God does, in the next period and for them, better days will come, that it's simply one of the clues that is necessary to complete this problem. We show these changes and additions today that we are going in this direction, and we are particularly happy about this, as will the fact that all those who have in any way committed this country to their allocations and profits in previous years, will have a fair compensation in their oldest days and that they will have a decent life thanks to their incomes and have the opportunity to be what they have spent their entire lives working hard and hard to do. These are people who have the capacity to meet in every sense these demanding economic challenges we face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7633	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7634	Thank you, Chairman. The prominent minister, co-workers and colleagues, the most important amendment to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, as well as to the priority, is to address the problems created by persons who have become redundant due to the process of rationalisation, restructuring and privatisation. As users of the government's social programme through the 2014 law, which entered into force in January 2015, they actually went into early retirement and had to pay a permanent penalty of 0.34%. In most cases, it was about workers of the metal profession who had low incomes and whose pensions would be about 20,000 dinars, along with a penalty, would be below every minimum and dignified life after the working century, and according to one of those in the Republic of Serbia, there are about 7,000. With the Serbian government's decision of March 2016, this group of pensioners was paid full pensions by October 1st, but the problem arose when the technical government abolished the conclusion. The proposed amendments to the law permanently resolve the problem by introducing the legal frameworks will completely resolve their status and correct the great injustice that has been done and we, as MPs of the SDPS, welcome and support such changes. In practice, this means that there will be no change in the amount of their income, as that difference has already been paid in accordance with the government's conclusion since November 2020, to pay for the difference due to the change in the way in which the early retirement pension is calculated for persons covered by this reorganisation programme, three hundred 1.4 million dinars are required. The good news is that the funds are provided by the Republic Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2021. This speaks of the stability of the PIO Fund, given that pensions have increased by 5.9% this year and account for 11% of GDP, which is acceptable according to IMF standards. It is important to stress that these amendments of the law will not change the conditions for retirement, that means for men aged 65, and for women at age 63 and two months and at least 15 years of employment. In addition to these proposed changes, changes to the laws relating to family pensions are important. Namely, family pensioners will all be in a level playing field so that after the death of the pensioner, they will not be able to charge their claims from the fund’s assets, but only after the completion of the leaven procedure, and this is a significant change when it comes to taking into account that every month there are millions of active suspensions on the basis of the trustee’s claim, and this will lead to even stronger stabilisation of the fund. Amendments to the law shall comply with the provisions relating to the case where an insurance undertaking performs contracted tasks, as well as the existence of an out-of-marriage community established in the out-of-party procedure. The obligation to maintain equal treatment in cases of divorce or termination of the life of outsiders, and the court ruling provides for the right to support. Taking into account the way the PIO Fund is functioning, which was built on the principle of generation solidarity, i.e. current employees finance pensioners, the key factor in the stabilisation of the fund is the development of the country. It is important to take care of the workforce, as a driver of the development production cycle, so as not to result in an unfavourable proportion of employees and pensioners. The reform of the pension fund is something to seriously think about, how to improve it, modernise it, adapt to the requirements of the capital market and the world economy. Employment of educational staff, inflows not only foreign, but also domestic investments, investment in new technologies and their application are some of the ways to create stable income sources, essential for pension funds. Due to all these amendments that represent a very important and important social character of the law, MPs of the SDPS will support the amendment of the PIO Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7635	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7636	I thank the respected vice presidents, the honourable minister, respected fellow Members, respected citizens, for the JS concern of the oldest population is one of the priorities and we do not have to stress that the preconditions for one, to say, are peaceful age, stable pensions and the right to adequate health care. This is not given by any state, not by any authority, but by the citizens themselves, through decades of hard work. However, the responsible state, as Serbia today is there to improve and regulate the system and face challenges. The quality, stability and continuity of pension insurance depends on the movement of many social economic factors, as well as demographic factors, which the state can control and predict, of course, in some specific situations. Although this law does not make fundamental changes, it brings significant technical improvements, overcoming problems and many things that we could characterise as some misunderstandings, and above all thinks of the group of beneficiaries of early retirement, which are due to various processes in their businesses, which were nevertheless Serbian government decisions, they could not exercise the right to an age pension because of the very nature of these conditions. The problems of this group of beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance, with these amendments and amendments to the law will be permanently resolved, and our parliamentary group will support the proposed changes in the voting day. A number of provisions of this law specify the position of a group whose status has not been so precise so far. For example, when farmers who are insurance workers and do contracted jobs, then frillers and what is very important, the marriage and non-marriage communities are in equal status and also as regards those family pensions, from that area, the family pension after the death of the insurance company is determined not by the early retirement pension, but by an old or disabled pension, which would belong to the insurance company at the time of death. Practice has shown that there have been numerous abuses related to pension payments following the death of users and these changes and additions are foreseen adequate mechanisms, which will prevent this in the future. We can conclude that these changes and additions naturally continue on those from 2018 and 2019, and they together represent a reformed and stable normative solution, when it comes to pension and disability insurance. The reform of pension and disability insurance in Serbia is long and lasts for 20 years and has numbered several stages. I have to agree with my colleague Đuric, who mentioned the difficult restrictive measures, which were targeted, and then we can freely say that our pensioners were stoically filed and maintained those measures, but the results led to the benefits. So they made a key sacrifice, when it comes to stabilising public finances. If we look back and look at practices, not only our countries but also various other countries to overcome problems, countries have approached different modes in crisis situations. Experience has shown that it is always the best and most verifiable method when employment is increased, when it is actively working on employment policies and reducing work to black. Negative natural growth and the fact that we become an old nation is something before we can't close our eyes. We have a very high negative natural growth and as for 2020, we can attribute it to the crown, but it is a demographic problem, which we are facing and which directly affects the stability of the system. So by encouraging a positive natural growth, joining an active birth-enhancing policy, we're going to get positive effects on multiple fronts. It's this fight against the white plague, which we from JS and our president are always talking about, and the measures we use to fight the white plague are never enough. For every adequate response to the challenges and problems in the future concerning the pension and disability insurance system, you will have the support of the Single Serbia, because we believe that because of the complexity of this area there is always room for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7637	Thank you, colleague. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7638	Thank you, Chairman. The honourable minister, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, may not agree with me as an artist as an artist in the sense that I am certainly not as professional and competent as perhaps other fellow Members on this subject, but as a national MP, and above all a citizen, namely a citizen and a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I want to respond to the challenge and participate in a discussion on a topic that is the eternal pain of all countries of the world, even the most developed, and that is precisely the theme of pension and disability insurance. This is a theme that concerns all of us. We've all had or had grandparents and we've all been looking forward as kids to what red we'd get in our school book for good grades at the end of the school year. Now our parents are retired, and all of us, with a little luck and health, must be expecting retirement days. Pension and disability insurance is just called insurance because it should be a security from the present and security for the future, but also to provide at least a decent or even good standard of living and when the working life span brings an end to the individual. Such insurance, in addition to providing a standard of living, should ensure the dignity of all citizens who have more needs for care in their retirement days than in their working stages. That is why any attempt to improve the pension and disability insurance system is extremely important, because in this way the state shows its commitment to care equally for all its citizens, especially those who may be the most vulnerable social group. Although the amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we are talking about today, are not essential changes and additions to the law, we still need to look at the basic objective of all the changes adopted so far, which is to adapt the mandatory pension and disability insurance to the basic part of the pension system to demographic change, primarily the ageing process of the population, economic circumstances, but also to adapt to the country's strategic definition of a modern and efficient administration. In the process of adapting pension and disability insurance to state opportunities and the inherited consequences of the previously wrongly made decisions, cuts have been made which at some point acted as a good solution to the rescue of the fiscal system of the Republic of Serbia. The pensioners trusted their country, and that's why today we here, some new MPs tomorrow, the current and any future government we have to justify the trust given and enable the pensioners to do what they deserve, dignity and carelessness when it comes to the stability and growth of their pensions. For this very reason, I am sure there will be more changes and additions to this law, perhaps even a whole new law that would ultimately bring about the essential changes needed and a potentially lastingly good fiscally responsible solution when it comes to maintaining levels and potentially further pension growth. The Swiss model, which is in place for us when it comes to the collection of pensions, according to estimates and the budgets of experts, is a long-term sustainable model, since it is parallel to inflation and average earnings, which maintains the purchasing power of the pensioner at about the same level compared to economic developments. Although one of the best systems in the world, apart from the Dutch and Canadian, the Swiss systems also have their own shortcomings that are most viewed in the care that pensions will be paid to future generations, that is, how to maintain the system so that it does not collapse. One of the topics discussed in Switzerland is the age of retirement, but also the difference in pensions depending on whether it is a woman or a man, because statistics show that women receive even a third less pension than men because of lower earnings during the working century, which is an interesting information for thinking and possibly further consideration and comparison with our data. It is also interesting to note that the retirement age is almost identical across Europe, which opens up space for discussion everywhere, because by extending the working age, the number of fund insurance companies is maintained until new jobs are provided, and young people do not get their chances as quickly and equally as they should. What I must point out as a member of the younger generation is the fact that young people want their chances and opportunities for employment to be given to them all equally, and the regulations on moving the age line in this area do not help unless new jobs are created that are needed to increase funding both in the Fund and in potential pensions. Also, according to the life span of the population, which is extended and old nations, opportunities for investment and agreements are being opened, such as insurance contracts signed by the Union Bank of Swisserland with a British pension fund of £1.4 billion, HSBS "The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation" at seven billion and... Ten billion pounds. Such contracts, among other things, show by whom the interest of financial corporations is to be involved in pension funds in order to create opportunities and additional opportunities for money-making. That fact may be used on our own, but only as a view of the potential permanent security of our pension fund, and not as a formula that we would allow different managements to play with our pensioners' money through different stock exchanges. Through the long-term perpetum of mobile projects, which would charge the pension fund, in addition to social contributions, would help reduce or fully eliminate state subsidies to the pension fund, which are now 141.750,000 dinars, representing around 1.200,000 euros in 2021, the state could thus provide its pensioners with stability and security and justify the already-required trust. How to maintain pensions and how to increase pensions? Good decisions have been maintained by the system, but according to experts, the ideal relationship between employees and pensioners is 4:1 and somewhat acceptable 3:1, we come to the conclusion that the state is making extraordinary efforts to pay pensions regularly and with increases, given that almost 1.7 million pensioners are registered in the PIO fund on 31 December 2020, and that almost 2.700,000 insurance workers are required, which, when carried out as employees and pensioners' relations, is about 1.3-1.5:1, depending on the day of the cut. All of this tells us that up to a 3:1 relationship, years or perhaps decades can pass if we rely only on increasing the number of jobs, and where the state is constantly and responsibly working. Constantly increasing the number of jobs that are being opened and employed by the working-age population is an extremely important thing for many reasons, but in order to compensate for the lack of funding of the Fund paid out of the state budget, and to make it easier for the state itself, the largest group of pensioners, whose pensions between 10 and 15 000 dinars, which account for 21.5% of pensioners, are potentially able to grow pensions and potentially reach the level of existence that would involve a covered consumer basket, we need to consider alternatives that could potentially be a good solution. These alternatives can be major projects in the new area chosen by the state and thus organise the construction of a pension fund in the appropriate legal form as a potential co-owner. Given that I attended the founding meeting of the Parliamentary Forum for Energy Policy of Serbia and that I was careful then and usually regularly following and listening to the presentations of both ministers and experts in the field of energy, especially on the topic of renewable energy sources and its ecological and economic potentials and benefits, I will give an idea that when coming from artists can act unseriously, but yet perhaps it is worth a bar of consideration. In fact, a large and important project called Đerdap 3, whose production power of 2,400 megawatts is a major developmental opportunity for Serbia, has long been discussed. Realisation of Đerdapa 3 and annual traffic, which would be at a level of 1,800,000 euros, would ensure that Serbia monitors Europe's energy transition by increasing the production of green kilowatts and becoming an energy leader with Gjerdap 1, 2 and 3 in this part of Europe. The turnover of around 1.8 billion euros is calculated on the basis of a price of 15 Eurocents, which according to Eurostat data is about the average cost of kilowatt hours in the EU in 2021, while green kilowatt is much more expensive than the 15 eurocents mentioned, given that countries that buy green kilowatts are also getting larger carbon credits. In such a giant project, the state could allocate co-ownership to a pension fund in a particular legal form that would be possible, thus ensuring the perpetum of the pension fund's mobile complementarity and the reduction of state subsidies that are now at the level of around 1.2 billion euros. This would automatically open the space for the state to have significantly higher resources in the budget, which could define investment in education, health care, infrastructure, social programmes, as well as investment in culture. These investments would require an infusion to make all the great projects already start and implement new ideas that the Ministry of Culture and cultural workers are already developing. Also, by strengthening pension fund pillars, it is certain that national pensions, i.e. national recognitions, could be permanently regulated and secured for individuals who have achieved significant results in their areas, whether they are athletes, artists or other individuals with an exceptional contribution to our society and culture. I would like to invite all direct interested pensioners and their associations, the PIO Fund, the ministries, the government and the whole society to come together to find the best solutions for the successful functioning of the pension system, because the successful functioning of the pension system has huge reflections on the functioning of the entire society. In this context, I would mention numerous expressions of gratitude to pensioners by the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic on their stoic understanding and acceptance of the belt tightening measures in order to achieve economic stabilisation, for which the most victims were brought by pensioners and thanks to which the initial recovery of the budget, and then significantly based on that, went into recovery and overall economic activity. Because of this, the time has matured for innovative methods, as well as for permanent care of all current and future pensioners, to come up with the most successful formula for the permanent improvement of the functioning of the PIO Fund, from which each pensioner will be able to achieve the life of a man and his past work. From this, let some future Gerdapi at least partially cross over into the hands of pensioners, so that they, like American or Swedish, enjoy Florida, but why not, and in the beauty of our mother Serbia. I would end my presentation with the words of the president of the National Assembly and the Socialist Party of Serbia, Mr Ivica Dacic, who fully paints both mine and the position of all Socialists: "We want Serbia in which to be old is no shame, and being a pensioner does not mean being poor and discriminated against. We have to do our best to make it happen. “ I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7639	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7640	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I think we rarely have laws before us that we are discussing for so many years in a lively system of debate of this Parliament, a law that fits so many years with changes and additions very spotlessly and at the right moment to the social and other circumstances that require its addition. In confirmation of this, let me say that this is, in fact, that the reform of the regulation of this matter began in 2002, that it had some seven stages since then, the last one was last year and, behold, this is now the eighth. Now we have a situation that we have not entered into the large system things that he touches and treats, but we have entered and I think that it is a quality and well done a lot of things that represent, come on, I won't say, it's a little demeaning if I say they are procedural things, but there are procedural things, but it is the addition of certain rights of the user of pensions, especially some things that have not been treated so far, such as, for example, the rights of our citizen from working relationship with a foreigner here in Serbia, and whose, this stranger, firm is not in Serbia. I think it's very important, because we have more and more of these, not to say, cases in society, and it's very important that we have that now. Another thing that's much more precise, clearer, more accurate now, and that's all about family pensions, where the rights of the former pensioner and the right to determine who can be, who can inherit, so to speak, the family pension. Now that's me, when I read this, I didn't even assume that so many people from the family, etc. may plead on such a family pension in the event of a user's death. On the other hand, these solutions, now new, around the family pension, have brought all those who can plead to that pension into an entirely equal position. Now, this is where the family pension came into the situation that, in fact, if the death of a user is at stake, it can't happen that someone won't inherit that pension. It's such a wide range of pretenders to retire. I think it's all been determined, provided by all those who were in this law, I don't mean now just a family pension, but it's all solved now and everyone who's in a situation to use a pension or to take a pension, etc., that they're much safer, that it's much more precise all that's been said and that it's much clearer to each one of them who has the rights. I think it's very important what we did. There are also those issues of funeral costs, which are no longer negligible at all, funeral expenses are increasingly expensive, especially for those people, and they are a large number, which have very small pensions and which need not a full pension, but more than a pension for funeral costs. I'd like to say something now about what I mentioned, and that's the systemic question of upgrading this law. I mean, Madam Minister, in order for us to, and probably, you're going to say, you probably already have that in the plan, etc., when it comes to these systemic issues, what do I mean by systemic issues? I mean all the rights that come out of this law for someone, and the obligations, of course, don't have to at the moment when something happened to investigate what someone should do now, that this system is arranged and that it is known. I'm taking one thing as an example. 30 and a few years ago, I'm a man of age, so I remember that, by the way, it's now 30 years old that I'm retired, so you can think how much I remember it, but we had a situation that you retired with 85% of the salary you last received. And there was nothing to think about and there was something in there. That's what you knew, it was the law. That's the kind of thing I mean. And that's what I'm thinking of next. We're in a situation right now, that's what I said at the beginning, that we're building up the law and the need for new circumstances in society in general and in the development of society, etc. We are now in a situation, thank God that we have reduced employment, or unemployment as much as we are. And if you have 15 or 20% more employees in one period, it changes a situation without talking even more if there is. It changes the situation in the sense that you should now think about how to enable and calculate whether these are three employees, whether they are two and a half employees or 3.30 who can provide pensions on the fourth. So there's one here now, that would be another system. It's not about getting out of the budget now, it's about how we're creating through a working relationship of funds that we can keep new pensioners. It's very important one thing, and that's not to get into a situation, and now we have this kind of situation that smells like it or that's what I have that feeling when I follow it, which is that the current employee who comes into retirement is thinking about retirement, he doesn't even think about those younger people who stay working and that thanks to their long-term work, he's going to have a secure pension. When I retired, I thought deeply about it, and I was grateful to all my colleagues for staying behind and for making it possible for me to do so. On the other hand, this way we put less direct burden on the budget. (President: Please bring an end, since you've already come a minute.) ) Therefore, in the end, the application, if we haven’t already, to deal with these large systemic matters, is systemic in fact and to go into it, given that our chances are such that development will go forward and that we will have these opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7641	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7642	I thank the chairman. The honourable minister, colleagues and knees of MPs, respected citizens, amendments and additions to this law represent a continuation of reforms and will help most of those with reduced pensions because they will get an increase. We no longer have a budget burden that is critical of the survival of the entire financial system. This is about persons who have accepted the Serbian Government's programme to resolve surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation, but because of changes in the 2014 law, instead of an age pension, they have obtained the right to early retirement with a permanent reduction in the amount of this pension, which has negatively affected users of the social programme that have been defined as special cash compensation. The government has now reached a conclusion that permanently solves the problem for people who have been identified as excess employees. The overcome problem arises for early pension users who were beneficiaries of the right to special cash compensation, i.e. cash compensation users. The amendments also included other alignments regarding the accounting of staff of family pensioners, agricultural pensioners and others. In 2014, the Council adopted Serbia was in front of bankruptcy. Making the Pension Reduction Act was an economic decision allowing pensions and salaries to continue to be paid. It was the only measure at that time that the crisis would stop, because 58% of pensions were paid out of the budget. The results were waiting, but we managed to stabilize the situation in our budget. Our country has made commitments to implement reforms until the end, to continue to heal and create long-term sustainability of growth and pension increases. The fact is, today we have a completely different picture. We are healing our economy and we have an incomparably larger number of employees, renovated and built factories and those that are being built, we have investors who are interested in investing in our economy. Since the percentage of employment directly affects the amount of pension payments through taxes and contributions, our government is making the most of it to attract foreign direct investment and encourage the development of economy and entrepreneurship. We do not forget the oldest who have taught us, educated us, and grateful for our expressed confidence, accepting the difficult and unpopular reforms that have saved us all together both current and future pensioners, and have particularly helped to achieve financial stability. All current and future investments are indicators that the Serbian government led by President Vukic has created a suitable investment ground and a positive economic climate. All we have to do in the coming years is stick to that path, and what Serbian pensioners should definitely expect are additional pension increases and a overall better life. This is the road leading to overall development, a course set by the Serbian government headed by President Vukic, a road moving by the SNS. In the end, I want to give my support to our president. I do not want the authority and life of President Vukic, the man I am proud of, the man who is brave enough to oppose crime, to strike the mafia, the man who is not afraid to say - I do not recognise Kosovo and do not stop working, to fight for stronger Serbia. Lies, threats, rapes, millions stolen in accounts around the world. It is a programme, a campaign of yellows and similar ones, and will really be remembered for the evils they have done to Serbia, and Serbia will not. No boast, no thieves, no criminals, no beatings, no thugs. Serbia is a lot of those and I'm sure nothing will stop President Vukic and can't blackmail anyone, and Danilo, Milica and little Vukan will go up proud of their father. It is our strength that after each attack we are stronger, that we fight even more to defend and strengthen Serbia, especially from those and all of us, because the people know, the people see who are fighting day and night, who are pulling for this country like no one else, who has achieved incredible results, who builds, who raises wages and pensions, opens factories, hires, who suffers threats, listening, fraud, who is behind his back doing it on his head. We are never and will never attack anyone's children, someone's family and invite them to a lynch. We'll never make a mess and shame on everyone, call for violence. We're not gonna deal with lies, we're gonna tell the truth, we're gonna tell the truth about everyone who wants to fight in a political fight. We will continue to deliver envious results, build modern Serbia and thus keep our promises and justify the trust that the citizens have given us. We should follow the example given by our president – peace, fair play, dignity, justice, a man who defends, protects and raises the reputation of Serbia everywhere in the world and who has brought faith back to a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7643	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour and continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7644	We're going back to work. The word is Radovan Aregina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7645	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I begin the discussion, was pleased that my younger colleague, Mihajlović Jelena, mentioned it as part of the pension fund for the construction of the future Gjerdap 3, as a carrier and I think that this is very positive for the development of our country and we expect all of the citizens of Timoska Krajina, i.e. Serbia, as a serious development opportunity, to build Gjerdap 3. So, Jeko, thank you for bringing it up. Today we are talking about amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which is a continuation of pension reform in our country. We expect these amendments to the law to improve the social status of pensioners, especially one group that, due to earlier restrictive reforms, remained with insufficiently well-resolved status. The necessity of restrictive pension legislation from the previous period was for the purpose of stabilising the pension fund, but also to preserve budgetary and macroeconomic stability. We all remember what the state of business and employment was like in the early 2000s, especially the painful privatisations. The price unfortunately paid for our oldest. That is why reforms were needed, and they were necessary in the period from 2014 to 2018 to necessarily a reduction in pensions and salaries in the public sector, but it should be said that these measures gave the planned effects and allowed us to move to a new phase of pension system reform, which is primarily aimed at increasing pensions and paying out pension differences, which should be welcomed because we have been met since 2018 as a planetary honor. The proposed solutions were discussed by my fellow MPs, as well as the other MPs, and I would like to talk about our senior citizens who we say are in the third age, which are our pensioners, today I will talk about from another angle. Yesterday, June 15th was marked International Day Against Violence Against Old People, and I would like to draw attention to this problem that the modern world is increasingly facing. The reasons are different, and the forms of violence and discrimination against our oldest citizens are different, according to our parents, grandparents, towards neighbors and those old people we meet on the street, at the market, on the bus, and unfortunately we are not always ready to give them a place to sit. What is happening to us that we have become selfish, intolerant, violent towards those who have created conditions for our lives? Where did our intergenerational solidarity go? It should not be forgotten that the human rights of the elderly will be human rights for us tomorrow. Will they be and will we earn them? That's the basic question. Yesterday, the Source of Equality announced an almost incredible forecast, which, believe me, surprised me as well, which is that the discrimination of the elderly in this century can become what racism and anti-Semitism were in the 20th century. It's devastating for humanity who today in the race for money, for good and for empty life forgets about their parents, their grandparents. The biggest challenge for our society is how to protect older people from neglect, abuse, and violence. This problem has been rarely talked about, and domestic violence or housing institutions have been difficult to detect. Most of the time, it's not like that. Unfortunately, statistics are not good, and it says that in the family the most common abusers are the closest relatives, which is increasingly witnessed by media who tell us different cases of care and abuse often with fatal outcomes. In housing institutions, abusers are other users or what it is when devastating staff, irresponsible individuals from the ranks of staff. Statistics say that even every sixth person over 65 years of age experiences violence, and only one out of 24 reported that violence. These are devastating facts and we must not close our eyes before these facts because what is the task of every human society when it comes to older people? It is that we provide our oldest citizens who have spent their working lives working for the progress of society a peaceful and secure age, respect and social position that enables a dignified life of old age. We must not forget that these very oldest, our pensioners built the country, and in the most difficult years of transition and the sale of our economy were often the only ones who had such incomes that often supported their children and grandchildren from their pensions. Serbia belongs to demographic old countries and faces various consequences of ageing. Today, in Serbia, every fifth resident is over 65 years old and only every seventh under 15 years old. The average age is over 43 years. This is how Serbia ranks as the world's oldest demographics. Trends in births continue, and only in seven municipalities in Serbia have a positive rate of natural growth. This is consequently reflected in the world of work, i.e. the working capacity of the population, which is also rapidly ageing. The social and economic consequences are far-reaching, and one of these is the unfavourable relationship between the working population and the pensioners, as now about 1.6 people are now coming to a pensioner. This unfavourable relationship can only be changed by strengthening the real sector by greater economic growth and higher employment, but whatever economic growth, whatever employment, whatever employment should not allow so much dehumanisation of a society in which the elderly will be discriminated, neglected, undetected, abused just because they are old, that they do not experience that they cannot be treated precisely because they are old, which happened during a difficult period behind us. I think we're all going to be here together and we're showing it at these years that are behind us, hopefully in the years that are ahead of us that we're going to end it. Serbia today is able to ensure not only by increasing pensions, but also by providing special packages of measures for a better life for its pensioners. I will remind you of three packages of measures in the previous year and this year which have mitigated the negative effects of Kovid 19. In the last year, all citizens, including pensioners, received 100 euros in aid, pensioners were given two times five thousand dinars, pensions are an average increase of 5.4%, which we must recognise at the time of a total and economic Sunflower of many countries, which as well as we are affected by a herd compared to last year's pensioners receive 110 euros in aid, all received vitamin packages, all who have been vaccinated will receive three thousand state aid dinars. The country's concern for our oldest mirrors is in health measures and priority vaccinations for which both the region and Europe and the whole world wanted us to, they didn't want to admit. In addition, today's EU decision to place Serbia on the list of safe travel countries, and I think this is great news for all of us and that what we do is great news for us. Serbia is today openly talking about all kinds of discrimination and violence, which is the job of our Trustee of Equality to disclose every case, but it is a job and other competent authorities that must prevent violence, detect and punish perpetrators or act in a preventive manner, stressing prevention because it is easier to prevent than treat. It is important to know that it is as important for our pensioners to live as well as for their lives to be worthy and certain, that their loved ones, but also for society, give them the right attention. There is one saying that as we treat our ancestors, so will our descendants treat us. We can't forget this as a society, even less as a people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7646	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7647	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we are discussing a bill on amendments and amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act and these changes that we are discussing today are heading towards improving the rights of our citizens. Such an approach is ultimately a responsible policy conducted by the SNS headed by President Aleksandar Vukic and what is important to highlight, because of Serbian citizens, it is that state finances concerning pension and disability insurance and are more than stable. The basic reason for these amendments and the addition of the Law applies above all to amendments to the norms which are prescribed the right to early retirement. These changes will also allow the Fund to work more efficiently and faster. Because of our citizens, it is important to stress that there is no talk of moving the age line or strengthening the conditions for obtaining pension rights. Thanks to efficient and responsible leadership, we today in Serbia, or Europe, have the fastest growing economy, despite the crisis caused by the Kovid - 19 virus. In such circumstances, it is our task to preserve all the results we have achieved through the implementation of those difficult but necessary, primarily fiscal reforms in 2014, because in 2012, we inherited the management of this country that was on the verge of bankruptcy. So, by 2012, this country was led by politicians gathered around policies represented by Đilas, Jeremic and Tadic and managed nothing else regarding the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, to lead to an unfavourable relationship between the number of insurance and pensioners and thus led to deficits in the business of the Republic Fund for Pension-Inhabitation Insurance. With this kind of action, our pensioners came into a situation where pension payments were uncertain, and to the greatest extent, they created such a system that involved the unwarranted exercise of the right to a disability pension, which led us to a burning problem that involved a huge degree of corruption, especially in healthcare. Essentially, they are today attacking the SNS, President Alexander Vukic and members of his family, above all to cover up all the political misdeeds they had between 2000 and 2012, because they literally left Serbia on their knees. Imagine now, in previous days, the main news on the portals and in the media under the control of Dragan Gilas is that a member of the SNS, brother of President Alexander Vukic, Mr Andrej Vukic, visited members of the SNS, so in Novi Sad, a local committee and now I ask them from this place from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - yes, and what is controversial about the fact that SNS member, Mr Andrej Vukic, visited SNS activists in a local committee in Novi Sad? So, Mr. Andrej Vukic, unlike Brother Dragan Gilas, Mr. Gok Gilas, has no 30 properties at elite locations in Belgrade. President Aleksandar Vukic and his brother, Andrej Vukic, do not have over 50 secret accounts containing stolen money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia and can proudly continue fighting, primarily for Serbia, and fighting in the SNS. From their actions, through attacks on the family of President Aleksandra Vukic, I see the only frustration of the defeated by the winners, more precisely than Alexander Vukic, because he sent them where they belong, and this is on the sidelines of the Serbian social and political scene, because there must be all those who, such as Dragan Dilas or Marinika Tepic, accuse their own people of being a genocidal people. The only goal of their policy, more specifically, cannot say "their policies" because they have absolutely no programme and no policy, is to try to challenge, with the support of foreigners, the political action of President Alexander Vukic and to try to use violence, some colored revolutions, without the political will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections and to do what they did, to deal with theft, so to do what they did by 2012. Now, we won't let them do it either, it won't let them, first of all, what's most important, not even the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have repeatedly said in my presentations in the National Assembly that I consider politics to be the most important two things, which are responsibility and results. As far as the results are concerned, the situation is crystal clear. Results either you have or you don't. And we from the SNS are proud of the results we have achieved for Serbia from 2012 to today. We are the SNS who managed to bring inflation to a historic minimum, to keep Serbia's public debt below 60%, so in Mastricht level, the unemployment rate in Serbia is below 10%, which is a historic minimum if we look at the period in the previous 30 years. Serbia is today a country where new highways are being built, where new factories are opening up, hence new jobs and we are one of the few countries in Europe that have managed to enable their citizens to raise and average wages and increase the average pension. Today, the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund is stable and from month to month we have good news and positive results, especially for our oldest citizens, and that is something they don't want to see only those who don't know anything and who are critical of critics and who have only a pathological desire to continue doing what they did until 2012, and I have to say that they're trying to do it at the time when they know we've provided years of surplus in the budget and when we finally put Serbia on their feet. Today, Serbia thanks to SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic's policies is a respectable international factor in the international political scene, and everyone knows that Serbia is both an economic and political leader in the Balkans. The results we're achieving are visible, verifiable. We have managed to provide generous support and help our citizens and businesses, we have preserved living standards, and at the same time we have succeeded, as I have already pointed out, to raise wages and pensions. Also, Serbia ranks as leaders in the mass population vaccination. The task ahead of all of us is to continue to work securely and responsibly and to provide Serbian citizens with what we have drawn through the "Serbia 2025" investment plan, which is that the average salary in Serbia in 2025 is 900 euros and the average pension of 440 euros. So, to enable citizens to grow even more dynamic economic growth. That is why I am sure that the citizens of Serbia will know that they are worthy and that they will also give in the future unimpeached support and trust of the policy that we in the SNS are carrying out. Finally, I would like to stress that in the voting day, I will support the bill we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7648	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7649	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – There is no dilemma for our children, because one of the priorities of our parliamentary group and SNS, in addition to preserving the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is both a better quality and a better material position for each citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO puts in focus the better material position of those pensioners who, on the basis of the social programme, have received solutions on early retirement and will now be corrected and, of course, have signed the social programme with the consent of the Government, exercise the right to old pensions, which certainly means an increase for them. What I'm saying is that the pension system actually depends on the economic progress and development of the country, on investment and on employment. The economy is priority and base, social policy, social policy measures are upgrades. Unfortunately, we didn't have the economic foundation of Serbia until 2012 because yellow tycoons, people's money robbers, painted in image and the Sundays of Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic robbed anything that could have been robbed, shut down factories, cities and municipalities, and turned 400,000 workers into valleys of hunger, and forced 400,000 workers into streets. In these robbery privatisations, I can point out that, for example, in the city of Kralje, only in the Magnochrom factory and in the car factory, 17,000 people were out of work. Of course, the factories weren't interested, they were only interested in filling their own pockets. That's why Dragan Gilas, along with his brother Gojko, today has properties that are not measured in the aris, but in hectares, over 35 real estates, which he of course acquired during his political post, of course, by robbing money from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or from the budget of the city of Belgrade. What I'm saying is that the yellow tycoon company, led by Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic, has reached out for an increase in pensions, but for such an increase in pensions that were not on any real basis. What does it mean – it wasn't real? This means that the economy did not exist and that pension growth was absolutely not based on economic growth and the economic strength of the country. But they figured it out, they took expensive commercial loans at an interest rate of 7.5% and 8% to pay pensions and increase them mainly before the elections. The fact that these interest rates were high, that these loans were commercial, of course they were not interested, because they did not return them, they had to return the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In 2011, at the time of their government, the International Monetary Fund left Serbia with its head, regardless of why they estimated the degree of corruption and the degree of irresponsible economic policy to the point of strengthening that, ultimately, the International Monetary Fund had nothing to look for in their time. In contrast, given that the country led to bankruptcy in 2014, when Alexander Vukic, the current president of the country, was in place, made painful and difficult, but only possible reforms to recover the country and restore the foundation on which each state stands, which is the economy. I must stress, when it comes to pensioners and these difficult economic measures, but which were realistic and only possible, in 60% of pensioners, of the million and 700 thousand, as many as there are in the Republic of Serbia, there has been no pension cuts for any single dinar. All fines arising from pension and disability insurance, means pensions and other benefits, are paid precisely in time. In the time of the biggest economic crisis that has hit the whole world, including our country, in the last year, the state has shown that it is with its people, with its citizens and that it is there to help them. Through the support measures the government was taking, it helped pensioners both last year and this year and through one-off financial aid, i.e. through pension increases, but also through the security of 100 euros for each pensioner in the past year and 110 euros for each pensioner this year. What is important, too, is that the pensioners first received the first 30 euros from this third package of measures in May 6th, that none of their applications were necessary, but since pensioners were in the Single Information System, they were paid the first 30 euros directly with pensions. Of course, it will receive another 30 euros and another 50 euros, with a third package of measures, and all three packages of measures amount to eight billion euros, as much as the state of Serbia has helped citizens and businesses in these difficult economic times. I also have to say, as far as vaccinations are concerned, that pensioners are responsible, that they respected all of the crisis headquarters measures at the time of the pandemic, that the highest rate of vaccination is exactly among the population over 65 years old, and I think that percentage is 80%. I must also point out that the state and how concerned it was in the health sense of our oldest citizens, so the first to actually be vaccinated were the old ones who were in homes for old and retired people, in social protection institutions. I must also point out that since 2016, four years in a row, thanks to responsible economic policy, we have had a surplus in the budget. During the 2020 pandemic, we had the smallest drop in gross domestic product in Europe. When it comes to vaccination, Serbia has shown that the leader is not in Europe, but also in the world by the number of vaccines it has provided its citizens, these are four types of vaccines, and of course, vaccines are completely free. Citizens from the region come to our country, from neighbouring countries, but also from Italy and some other countries, to be vaccinated, because for us the health of our neighbours and all people in the world is something that has no political dimension, it should be the priority of every responsible country, and the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandr Vukic, is responsible. What I must point out is that during the time of the pigs last year, taking care of employment and young people, a project was launched by the National Employment Service and the Ministry of Employment, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs "My First Salary", for which the state provided two billion and where tens of thousands of young people who completed their mid- and high professional training could compete for their first job, to gain work experience, but, of course, it could also result in permanent employment with employers who were hired. I must also point out that this government is running a responsible policy in the employment work. A Employment Strategy for the period 2021-2026 was adopted, as well as the Action Plan and around 18,000 people had already been overlooked for 2021. Of course, I want to point out that among these people are those unemployed persons who belong to the so-called. vulnerable categories, such as Roma, such as over 50 years of age, such as persons with disabilities, etc. I must also point out that Serbia is a politically stable country, that the peace, security and security of our citizens are also first, that the favourable investment climate is in the eyes of foreign investors at an enviable level, that in German companies, and there are about 400, today there are 70,000 of our citizens. In 2014, the number was 18,000 employees in German companies. That the investment climate is good, also shows data that the largest Japanese investors come and open a factory in our country such as "Nidek" in Novi Sad, such as "Tojotiers" in India, etc. In Smederjevska Palanca, in which they held the power of the yellow tycoon for a long time, where the budget was completely destroyed, the municipality was completely devastated, thanks above all to responsible economic policy and economic patriotism by the South Korean company that will hire people. Of course, what is significant is that the salaries in both Japanese companies and German companies will be significantly above average. Finally, I want to point out that the policy of this government, but also of Alexander Vukic, who has a vision, breathed life and hope, not only in Belgrade, but in many cities within Serbia, to develop and to keep the population in the area and not to move into larger cities. I must point out that in the Municipality of Priboj, which belongs to a group of underdeveloped municipalities, in April of this year the average net earnings amounted to 74,215 dinars. Of course, in Priboj, thanks to the government's assistance, an industrial zone, one of the largest in southwestern Serbia, foreign investors came, a German company was opened in the industrial zone, other companies were opened, and people were given a chance to stay on their hearths and earn their bread. In voting day, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7650	Thank you. The word is Ivan Fishman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7651	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the arrangement of the pension and disability insurance system is a particularly sensitive issue for each country, as it assumes the establishment of a balance between economic stability on the one hand and social responsibility on the other. In Serbia, this is particularly due to a large number of pensioners compared to the general population and inherited social problems in society that have negatively affected the living standards of our oldest citizens. Serbia belongs to the order of countries in which the so-called a solid pension financing system in which current employees finance pensioners. In this respect, the regulation and stabilisation of this system implies economic recovery and a safe rate of economic development. This law that we are discussing today represents not only a significant contribution to long-term efforts to regulate the pension and disability insurance system, i.e. to create conditions for its long-term social sustainability and economic sustainability, but also an important step towards improving the social status of our oldest population. Unlike the so-called. the restrictive measures to be adopted in the laws of 2002, 2003, 2005, 2010 and 2014, this is, in fact, the third consecutive phase of reform, which does not have a restrictive character, but has a positive impact on insurance and users, and that is multiple. The measures adopted in 2018 and 2019 have enabled an increase in pensioners' income, payment of pension increases, pension coordination and payment of financial assistance to users from the financing of the Republic Fund for Disability and Pension Insurance. The law on the agenda today, which we are discussing, continues, with a set of measures that improve the position of insurance companies, so-called insurance companies. agricultural pensions, frillers, insurance companies that are entitled to foreign pensions, to family pensions, to temporary pensions, as well as to specify how old retirement is accounted for. The fact that this is, in fact, a third significant step in reforming the pension and disability insurance system that brings significant benefits to fund users is a sure proof of the success of the economic policy of the Republika Srpska-led SNS headed by the president of the Republic. These measures are the result of economic development, new investments, increased employment rates, and thus of balancing the relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners, which is crucial in the solidarity system of pension insurance. The measures provided for in this law would not be possible if Serbia's economic recovery programme did not work well. In addition to the unquestionable vision of courageous but well thought-out moves aimed at growth in the economy, increasing employment rates, bringing investment capital to Serbia, the progress our country has shown also testifies to the success of the fight against crime and corruption. This may be the key reason why all these measures could not be brought, but only in the period when all the functions in power took over our party led by the president of the state. The measures taken by our predecessors, not only when it comes to stabilising the pension-inhabitation system, but also other segments of the functioning of the state administration, were undermined by the bribery of the then politicians at the expense of Serbia's citizens' social well-being. When restrictive social measures are introduced, and on the other hand you see that a certain number of people in power are uncontrollably and enormously rich, then it is a clear signal that something is wrong. These are always signs that point to a threatening destabilisation. On the other hand, in a system where living standards are growing, while attempts at corruption are being prosecuted and punished, in which there are no untouchable people protecting party eagles. Citizens see in these systems security and security. In other words, unlike the opposition demagogues who are called to justice, and are repeatedly caught in various abuses while they were in power, here, we could even read a little over an hour ago, and while in opposition, because we see that one of the National Party's financialists, Vuk Jeremic, was deprived of freedom because of abuse, ruling a political course in Serbia, confirms that the country's progress requires vision, knowledge, courage and zero tolerance towards crime and corruption and putting personal interests above the community. The law confirms that Serbia is on the right track, that a country is safely and responsibly run. It is a confirmation that behind our policies are works, not demagogue flossulas, empty promises, false accusations and malicious prognosis that spread the sullen and insolent former authorities. Voting for this law is a confirmation of the difference between empty words and visible works. Our actions are in themselves the best answer to all the slanders and lies that, to say the least, failed owners from previous regimes place in public, because they have nothing else to mate with the successful and far-sighted reform of Serbia that we are carrying out. That we are on a good track and that the policy of this ruling nomenclature is recognised by Serbian citizens, the recently held elections in Vojvodina for the local communities where the SNS achieved a fantastic result and won by as many as 50,000 votes over the year 2017. We as ruling foreigners, the ruling coalition need nothing more than that, than the fact that the people recognize who thinks, who talks and who works in his interest. The fact that our political opponents face the political defeat they experienced immediately found to condemn, to insult, to invent various jeeps, tattooed and bald boys, is quite understandable, and we can deal with it. Whoever loses has the right to be angry. I want them to be very angry in the future, not because I want them to do something bad, but because it's good for the citizens of Serbia, because while they're angry someone has to do serious state work, for which they're not staff, such as having negotiations with representatives of a country-wide creation that calls themselves the Republic of Kosovo. As we have seen, we could see from the statements of the previous days, even the last negotiations were not very successful. I would, of course, expect the opposition's quick representatives to call a press conference and will argue there that this is another step by the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to recognise Kosovo's independence and if it leads an unfavourable struggle for many years not to do so. Although I knew and believed that in the previous period our president was almost impossible to conduct negotiations with Haradinaj, with Thaci because they were simply diametrically different, namely the criminals mentioned, the gentlemen mentioned were murderers, not because I characterise them and judge them but because they were proud in their interviews of killing people in the battlefields, and that criminals are seen by what happens to witnesses in their court proceedings, while unlike them, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic is a decent, reasonable and educated man and it is very difficult for those two mental assemblies to understand in any field, however, it was expected that Albin Kurti, who, unlike the previous two, would also be an educated man, an intellectual, who could not be challenged to have all this time a little more cultured way, a little communication and a more rational policy and understanding. However, surrounded by those forces that de facto and factually created what he calls State Mr. Kurti speaks language of blackmail, speaks hate language, intolerance, with the desire to reach a final, reasonable and acceptable agreement and solution, so as not to enter into the composition of great Albania and through that platform and that formula, perhaps get a chair in the UN which is only now the fruit of my speculation. Of course, Mr. Kurti has provided support for his policy in individuals from the Kosovo political establishment, such as deputies, the leader of the Democratic Party of Kosovo, Mr. Halliti, who claims that Serbia now has a hellish plan for the Balkans and Kosovo, probably thinks it's hell that the president of Serbia and our country accepts every well-intentioned traveler by allowing him to vaccinate on our territory, which donates vaccines, wishing that everyone together from the region as soon as we get out and beat this monster that has hit us, as well as he claims, and is called on to say that Serbia is a remethyling factor in the Balkans. The progenitor of the thesis on Serbia, as a remethyling factor which, if I am not mistaken, Fridrick Nauman, a German geopoliticalist, a geostrategist who in 1915 in the book "Central Europe", also called Serbs a remethyl factor and suggested that our territories be taken away, then Podrinje, eastern Serbia and Shabac, and today it is proposed by Albin Kurti, the Kosovo public to propose to take away Kosovo and then they proposed to create a great Germany, while today Albanians suggest conquering a great Albania. What's the point is next. We as a people, as an opposition both as a position and as an opposition, must not be disintegrated around the essential objectives of our country and essential tasks, such as the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, because it is not easy at all. As far as Albanians and their representatives are concerned, they are not particularly problematic, because they work on the instructions of those who, due to their political interests, respond to this situation on the ground. Those who have to have a little more hearing for Serbia, for our policy, are our allies from two world wars and members of the international community who look favorably at the rhetorical and factually flammable forms of conduct of Albanians. Serbia has fulfilled its international obligations, Albanians are nothing, we resent everything, they are forgiven. Official Serbia's policy, dialogue policy, a reasonable path towards resolving problems, reconciliation, progress. The Albanian policy is to talk about threats, lawsuits, dialogue interruptions, blackmail and intimidation. And I'm gonna get this over with. Take account of respected friends that those you now stretch, do not become converts, as is the same Osama Bin Laden, whom you once referred to as a freedom fighter, a justice fighter, and he has returned to you in the most reckless and playful way that is inconceivable and common sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7652	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Nevenka Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7653	I would like to thank the chairman, a respected minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on PIO. The reasons for bringing these changes are the problems faced by individual insurance companies. By applying the existing PIO law when they arrive at the threshold of the third time of their life and when they need to exercise the right to retire and which should give them the opportunity to live a decent and peaceful retirement life. Given the traditional value and role of pensioners in our society, these amendments and additions to the Law on PIO are another confirmation that the state of Serbia is socially responsible and that it takes care of its oldest citizens, that it does everything to make their life under the old days better and better. For the country's caring and responsible attitude towards its citizens and especially towards its oldest citizens, it is very important to almost crucial, economic, or economic power and state of employment for its working-age population because pensioners are financed by a system of solidarity among generations, so current employees are financed by pensioners. This means that a stable and long-term sustainable PIO system is a very important relationship between the number of employees and the number of pensioners. In the past, our country and government have been committed to strengthening the economy, attracting investment, creating real jobs and increasing employment, creating real opportunities to increase pensions and improve pension standards. These amendments and additions to the PIO Act, which relate to the following, determines the status of farmers' insurance companies, determines the extramarital community, regulates the difference to the minimum amount of pension for insurance workers, who made the in-repent, regulates the change of data in the parent records, determines the fund's right to claim compensation from creditors, following the death of users. These changes regulate the amount of early retirement for insurance workers who, by the government's decision, were beneficiaries of the right, on the settlement of surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation. All family pensioners are placed in an equal position because their pension is calculated from an old age rather than prematurely. Problems that arise with trusts are solved as a result of the suspension after the death of the users. It arranges and regulates the payment of funeral expenses. The proposed amendments provide for a more efficient and faster operation of the Republic PIO fund, in favour of insurance companies and rights users. I will take advantage of your presence and present and look back at some of the problems that agricultural insurance and agricultural pensioners face, not only in my municipality, but in almost all rural and mountainous environments. Namely, it is the amount of contribution for PIO, which are farmers obliged to pay for all farmers, regardless of the area they live in, the conditions in which they live and the work they perform, as well as the revenues they make from that activity. Many agricultural insurance companies in my area, in the previous period, have gone into trouble, because they have failed to reconcile their liabilities resulting from pension and health insurance, because they did not have financial power, and precisely because of very low incomes from agricultural activity, and their interest-based debts have reached millions of sums, they have often exceeded the value of the entire assets of the agricultural insurance company and its ownership. Those who have managed to pay at least 15 years of internships and qualify for retirement have been forced to conclude debt repayment agreements through pension suspension. Even so, almost no one manages to pay off their debt for the rest of their lives, and the debt remains to the heirs who, after the death of the pensioners, fail to inherit the property precisely because of the debt created on this basis. For this reason, I believe that farmers from the devastated mountainous and mountainous areas should be significantly reduced for the payment of contributions to pension and health insurance, as it is not the same for agriculture in Vojvodina or Šumadija and in Bosilegrad, Trgovište or Crno Trava due to both the conditions and the income. Dealing with agriculture in harsh mountainous conditions without machinery is a difficult and painful job that makes it modest and very, very difficult to live on. Therefore, in order to preserve the few farmers in mountainous areas, the same should be maximum support both through subsidies, education, buy-ins, and a stimulating positive tax policy, so that people can remain and survive in those areas, so as not to empty the beautiful parts of Serbia, in order to preserve healthy and environmentally clean environments and all their potentials that are valid only if people live in these areas. In the end, as well as my colleagues from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the bill that we have on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7654	I thank the People's Parliament of Nevenka Kostadin's. The word is from the MP Dusan Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7655	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens and pensioners, here we are today discussing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, and since 2002, many times this law has been amended, and most of the proposals have been restrictive, while today we can finally discuss some nice proposals that will positively reflect on our pensioners, especially those pensioners who have gone into early retirement and who have also been victims of the yellow regime, who have been harassing this country for 12 years, who have destroyed the economy, shut down factories, our fellow citizens on the streets. We have inherited their problems since 2012 and have been forced to bring in 2014 unpopular measures that citizens have greatly supported, because they finally realized that we have to tell the truth and that we have to face problems and that difficult times require hard and capable people, but also difficult decisions. The result of all this was the measures taken by our pensioners here in Serbia on their backs, but immediately after them, we young people, because some decisions have been made to ban employment in the public sector and we have suffered great consequences regarding the quality of the human resources of our companies in the country. Now that picture is changing, because our results and plans have paid off. Today Serbia is on its way. We are talking about unemployment at about 8% today, and during Tadic, Pajtic, Gilas and other coalition accomplices, it was 27%. So, one complete absence of any perspective, any ideas not only for pensioners, but also for us young people, because when we talk about pensions, we don't just talk about pensioners, but about all of us, because there's going to be a time when we're also gonna be users of the pension fund, and that's why we have to keep the state register, so we have to worry about our investments, so we have to build infrastructure, bring foreign investments, but also defend and protect our domestic businessmen, because only by hiring can create healthy ways to charge the pension fund, so that our older citizens, when they finish working century, have one pension they deserve. It can never be quite satisfactory, because our older people deserve much, because they built this country. We young, especially from the SNS, and I can say it freely, for 13 years we've been working with our older citizens and we understand their needs, we understand their advice and we treat them, because we think they know best what's good in the country, because what we haven't even been born and a lot of what we learn is going to happen, because I say, there's going to be a time when we're going to be pensioners ourselves. This law has defined some other decisions that will make life much easier for them, but not only that, but, dear minister, I would like to give you one piece of advice or a proposal, so that in the next period we can try to restart volunteer service at the Social Labour Centres or in front of local self-governments, because it proved to be good during the pandemic of the Coronal Virus. The pensioners didn't just earn pensions that would keep growing, which are regular today. I just have to point that out, 'cause that's what my senior colleagues always tell me. Today pensions are regular and it's big news. When we were teenagers, our senior citizens had a problem with not knowing when they would retire, or whether they would ever be. The state was in debt to pay for pensions. They lived in one general chaos, hopelessness and today, when they see that pensions are regular, when they are constantly growing, when the state cares about them, giving them all kinds of help, one-time, financial, in medicine, in nice words, pensioners see that someone respects everything they've done in this country, and that's why I think it would be a good idea, that in some future, we consider it, that in these volunteer centres, young people continue to work, to be at the service of our older citizens, because we saw that a beautiful word and help meant a lot to them, besides that pension. I believe that with all these decisions and further clear investment in the economy, fighting corruption, we will create conditions and protect the pension fund for the benefit of our older citizens, but also for the benefit of all of us who will eventually, then come into this situation when we have finished our working life. I really cannot understand as someone who is young and who spends a lot of time on social networks, whenever I have time for it, that nothing Democrats Gilas, Pajtic, Jeremic learned from it, that they should respect older people. And today, their activists 1,700,000 pensioners today in Serbia on social sorcery are insulting that they do not know anything, how they should be deprived of their right to vote. One general discrimination suffered by Gilas' activists. Come on, we youngsters, we're used to it, and we're consciously in that fight, because we know what we're fighting for, and we know that the results will eventually pay off, but we need to protect against any kind of discrimination against our older fellow citizens. They didn't deserve it from these, I'm going to try to find some kind word now, a hohstappler, by the Democratic Party, that someone under the old days calls them out and gives them the salt of their brains. I guess pensioners know best how they live today and how they lived during their reign. That's why in the voting day I will support this, but also any other decision that will make one new quality, one new value to the pensioners and their lives, because I think we will come at that time and we can learn a lot from them. We should respect them and give them a big thank you this way for everything they've brought out, especially for us, the younger generations we've come to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7656	I thank Parliamentarian Dusan Radojevic. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7657	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak today about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. It's always a great pleasure to have these laws on the agenda, because I think children and pensioners absolutely every time there are opportunities should be helped. They deserve it. They're our parents, they're both grandparents, people who fought for this country, and very soon we, too, are going to be pensioners. So, as we do to them, so will our children to us. Let's just remember the period since 2000. It's just that I have to stress for someone who may not remember what it was like at the time of the yellow company, from 2000 to 2012, either, it didn't happen again. And why is that? First of all, the devastated land we've totally found, which means we've been in a minus-unknown, with all the interest. Secondly, they left, for example, Mr. Gilas, a 1,200,000-euro debt to the city. The state at the time is in charge of all interest, they say, we have today to repay a debt of 54 billion euros. Well, that's not true. They left us a debt with all 26 billion-euro company debts, with interest rates, and they took loans of 7, 8, 9 and 10 per cent. They didn't care what happened to this country. If they cared, they wouldn't be taking those loans that we're returning today, they'd be taking loans, like we're taking today, from 1%, 2% interest. That's how it works. Let's just remember that in 2008, when 400,000 people were fired. Now imagine someone who's been retired, he's got a few years left to retire, so what's that man gonna do? Shame on them. None of them got a job or maybe 1% of those people. Well, they weren't all retired, but if they didn't get a job, how could they support their families? That's 400,000 people. How do we know if there are two people in the family who work, maybe only one works, and there are two other children? He says they left the country, left the country every day. Well, that's not true. Many young people we hired have returned to Serbia, and that is known. The unemployment of that year 2012, i.e. during the period when they fired and not only 400,000 people from various companies and businesses, but they fired 1,000 judges, so we paid well, and their debt and 44m euros, we paid that they fired judges who were currently not responding there to the main court, we know who it is and what it is, but they were simply not people who were bribed, they weren't people who were currently responding to their authorities, so who said, what's wrong, can, a thousand one go out, we'll manage ourselves, we'll work much better without them. In 2008 to 2012, 27% were unemployed. It's 9% today, because we had a covid. The unemployment rate was 7.3% before the show. As far as this law is concerned, it should solve the problem from 2014, when we passed the Law on PIO, namely, to pay the difference between early retirement and retirement. And why is that? Because this 2014 law has just covered the shift of the age limit, and so for men and women, it will be retired when it is 65 years old, for men and for women gradually, so that today, when someone went into retirement, it would be 63 years and two months for women. That difference will be paid, because there's money in the budget. Why is there money? Well, because we're opening up all over the beautiful Republic of Serbia new companies, new jobs. We hired over 350,000 people. Sam President, Mr. Alexander Vukic has opened over 250 companies and every day a new company opens up. That's why young people come back, in their time they're leaving, in our time they're coming back. And how well we do just the talking data, unfortunately, when the pandemic appeared or Kovid – 19, over 200,000 people entered Serbia, they returned to vaccinate, they returned because they may not have had social security there. You know the vaccines we have. We have four kinds of vaccines and none are paid, which is not the case in Europe and the world. Any moment now for a way to conduct this kind of policy. We heard today from my esteemed colleague and colleague what's going on with the negotiations. That's our president, as always, the great patriot. We'll never recognise Kosovo, never, so, at least while I'm alive, I won't admit it. Something could happen to me and I'd fall, but never. Kosovo is the heart of Serbia and Kosovo is ours, Kosovo and Metohija, the southern province. Now let's get back to this law. I'm always pissed off when I hear some bad news like that and I can't believe that someone doesn't want to negotiate but blackmails, like those who say they have so-called. an independent republic. There is no such thing, nor will there ever be. After all, 96 countries did not recognise so-called. Independent Kosovo, with a tendency not to recognise four more countries, and then we'll see what we can do. The law also applies to farmers who will have occasionally agreed jobs, to extramarital communities, they will be reconsidered, but also to frillers so-called, i.e. users who have their own activities. It should also be pointed out that we will increase, or regulate, the way in which the conditions for payment of funeral expenses are regulated. And everything that's done for the pensioners, it's supposed to be done just like this, always help, whenever we're able. That's what happened last year, when we retired, first of all, increased pensions. The pensioners had heavy reforms, not only pensioners, but all of Serbia, should pay off the debts of former destroyers of this beautiful country. But, well, we show up working, building, building eight new highways. And he asked, "Well, why is it that eight?" Well, because whoever wants to open the factory and who wants to invest, to invest in our country, must have infrastructure. Well, how do you think we can open a factory in some field? So it has to be a complete infrastructure, so people will come. We're a stable country. We are taking into account our own EU legislation. People know that, and that's why we have a bunch of investors who want to invest here. What I'm saying is that last year, we helped the pensioners, they got pensioners a hundred euros, then, plus 4,000, 5,000 more, and that's how it works. This year, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will receive 60 euros, of course, there are pensioners, plus 50 euros to pensioners, plus vitamins, and plus, as my distinguished colleague said, non-stop attention, love, because we will soon, not all of us, but, for example. I'm gonna be a pensioner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7658	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7659	Thank you. Dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we had opportunities from my distinguished colleagues in previous discussions to hear more about the very proposal to amend and supplement the law and why all this is important. What I would refer to is precisely the question my colleague Veroljub Arsic asked – what is this all about? Well, precisely because members of the former regime, the yellow tycoons, worked their best not to destabilize our pension system, but to completely destroy it. Because, as we can see, in order for the pension system to work, you absolutely have to have a sufficient number of people who will work, who will make the revenues that will ensure that our GDP is growing, so that we can charge our pension fund and enable pensioners who have spent their working lives building up, improving this country, to provide peaceful retirement days so that they can slowly crack their pensions. We have succeeded in this thanks to the difficult reforms launched by the president, then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who are still being implemented today, and what we are doing today is the continuation of these reforms, in which we are further improving our pension system ourselves. But, as we had the opportunity to hear from President Alexander Vukic today, we will continue to work on improving our tax system, so that we can further improve our business environment and to stimulate young people, people up to 40 years old, to turn to entrepreneurship, to turn to business, to work on making as much income as possible, because everything you do legally and what you do according to legal regulations is something that is good, something that absolutely needs to be supported. And what is very important is that there will be further work on the new employment of people, that is, certain tax duties will be abolished in order to stimulate employment, above all, young people who are energetic, who are eager to prove and who will make a significant contribution to the development of this country. We have also heard in previous speeches, but also in previous sessions, that Serbia when it comes to the return of young people from abroad is the country where people return after the completion of education because they felt that the ambience that is here was created is suitable for working on their ideas, because we have opened scientific and technological parks, because we have in large centres start-up innovation generators, which allow these people to have their ideas that they may have developed as students in practice, with all the professional assistance these centres provide, but also with the financial support and assistance that the state provides through various programmes of subsidies, financing innovation and these very ideas. What is certainly commendable and certainly stimulating is the determined fight against crime and corruption, which is being successfully implemented. And here we were able to read today that the competent institutions have successfully worked to identify and arrest the people responsible for the Resavica robbery, among which, behold, you have a member of the Jeremic party, who is otherwise his financier, who conducted his campaign, who during the previous period damaged Resavico by 40 million dinars. Of course, the sooner Vuk Jeremic appeared on his Twitter, where he and his party conducted a policy, but not only the party, but also coalition partners Dragan Djilas and other boycotters advocated, which is a policy of rematch, a policy of threats where he said, quote -- brutal rematchism, will whine that they had to lie. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what message does Vuk Jeremic send both to you and to us, and above all to the journalists who published this news, and I am sure to the members of our forces of the MUP, the BIA who worked on this case? Obviously, everything that is not in their favor, everything that prevents them from robbing Serbia and that yellow octopus, that their tentacles continue to caress Serbia, obviously it bothers them and it bothers them that from day to day we reduce those tentacles, we remember, and we do not allow them to continue robbing Serbia. Apparently, Gilasu, and Jeremic, too, is a little bit of the 619 million they robbed while they were in power, there are few 68 million that they hid in 50 and some accounts abroad, few of those huge millions that they hid in straws to provide support from foreigners to stay in power before 2012, but obviously need more, because the pocket with age is getting deeper and deeper, it's getting harder and harder to fill it. All these Twitter politicians, as I can call them, who apparently think that based on tweets, based on the number of likes, are getting elections, simply see what kind of message they're sending, and that's not just us. I say, It is a message to all Serbian citizens who are against them, because their philosophy – if you are not with me, you are against me. We will certainly be even more determined in the next period in the fight against crime and corruption and will no longer allow that period, the yellow and sad period, Serbia repeats when half a million citizens left in the streets, without a piece of bread, when they sold out everything they had arrived in Serbia, trying to sell it for as little as possible, because of the fact that most of them had been placed in their pockets, and then some of them would symbolically buy out for one dollar or break contracts when it was seen as far as the robbery privatisation went. I will certainly turn to Kruševac in my discussion, for example, since I am a proud Kruševljanin, and that on June 28th we will mark 650 years since the founding of Kruševac, the former capital, and you, a respected minister, are also a member of the Organizational Committee, along with several other colleagues, whose head is our Kruševljanin, whom we are all proud of, Bratislav Gasic. During the rule of the yellow tycoons in Krusevec, they were able to privatize almost everything, to place locks on numerous factories, and you know what's hypocritical? They didn't even try to build a lock factory in Serbia to which they would land factories, but they also imported locks from abroad to do the job. "October 14th" led to destruction, destroyed the Parish, and destroyed many other giants. Kruševac turned into a grey and tried to keep the city as empty as possible of the inhabitants, because for them Serbia was obviously a circle of two, and all the other cities were unknown to them. What they left us after 2012, when the SNS took over, is a minus in a cash register of 700 million dinars, loans they took, destroyed public enterprises and a large number of unemployed. We heard from respected colleagues that the unemployment rate was up to 27% at the time. Since 2012, when Bratislav Gasic was headed by the city and President Aleksandar Vucic, we have been on the move with successful implementation of SNS policy and in this period I can freely say that we have raised Kruševac infrastructure and in economic terms, that in Kruševec today you have below 10% of the unemployment rate, we have a state college, the youngest university in Serbia, a farmer who already plans to register a fourth generation of students. We have a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises that are open, supporting businesses to develop their business. We managed to save a large number of companies "14. October", you have today "Valvolin" which works in Kruševec, we have "Kromberg" and "Shubert" factory that has come, which is the first investment in Kruševec since the great number of years since this city works, and can freely say from the period of the famous Mayor Mitchet, which everyone in Kruševec remembers well by the development of industry. We slowly return to those steps when Kruševac in the former Yugoslavia was known as the fourth largest industrial centre. I also remember the stories of my parents, when they were little, we watched the columns of workers walking the streets, the buses that these workers were driving home. That's the picture that's coming back to Kruševac. And today, it is my pleasure to pass by the Henkel factory, next to the Cooper Tyres, or Gujir, now, when I pass by "14. October", next to Valvoline, next to other companies, next to Cromberg and Shubert, when I see the columns of workers and when I see buses full of workers, one of them goes home after the shift, and the others come to start their shift. The standard of living is growing. I say, we are very proud of what was done in Kruševec and unlike the period when, as I said, they tried to empty the city, today in Kruševec you have an inflow of the population, today in Kruševec nothing new settlement called "The settlement of the airport". In a place where there used to be a sports airport in Kruševec, where during the DS, during the tycoon there was horse pasture, we will discover for Vidovdan the monument of Prince Lazar, as one way to thank him, as the founder of the city, but also as one symbol of the rebirth of Kruševec and further prosperity. Otherwise, at the site, no buildings have already been built by investors and will be one of the symbols of the new Kruševec and Kruševec that has been reborn. We have a highway to build. A story that Miki Aleksic and his party colleagues used to propagate when they needed votes, and when they needed to start working, they didn't even think about it. Now they're talking about some four strips, and then two strips were absolutely enough according to the standards they had. I'm proud whenever I go to Belgrade or wherever, so we see how the works move away and Kruševac will be connected on the highway by next year. One big dream, one big chance for development and Kruševac, and Varvarina, and Cicevic. There will be new industrial zones here, and we will have room for new jobs, for young people who can develop their businesses. What's interesting to me is that members of the former regime all the good that happens in this country are absolutely trying not to notice, as if they have some filters embedded in their eyes, and they don't see it, or maybe they're simply turning their eyes, so I would clearly warn that when they go to Kruševec, especially from Tristennik Miki Aleksic, they take care when he drives, that he doesn't look too far off the road, because he can endanger traffic safety and other participants who are certainly more careful than he is. So, as I said, Kruševac is one of the examples in Serbia of how much has been reborn, how much has been improved and how we continue to implement the "Serbia 2025" plan, we will reach the average earnings of 900 euros, average salaries and pensions of 440, 430 euros. What is most important is that we are working on keeping young people there, giving absolute support to young people, and also through these legal reforms that we are doing, we will improve and we will create this institutional environment that is needed for Serbia to move forward. What I want to say as the crown of everything is that the Last Corporation has marked 132 years since its existence, its founding, when they functioned as the company "Opelic" and I am glad that at today's ceremony 100 workers received contracts indefinitely, which is another proof of how far we progressed. The plant will have two new plants that have developed and are open and will need more workforce. It is an example of Serbia we are fighting for and that is the Serbia we are looking for. This is Serbia, which citizens usually see, they feel on their skin, which they will absolutely support, as much as these yellow tycoons try to spread through their media, social networks, some false image of Serbia, and in fact they're just talking about Serbia as they make, as they want to create and send political support as Serbia we won't allow it to be created again, because as I've had the chance to say on the show -- not as long as Alexandera Vukic and us who absolutely support their policy to allow Serbia to be their farthest again. In the voting day, as well as my colleagues, I will absolutely support this bill, as well as any other law that will further improve Serbia's development environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7660	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Ana Miljanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7661	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, who will return, I hope, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I say anything more about the amendment and supplementation of the Law on PIO, I must stress that our pensioners were in some way a pillar of reforms implemented by our President Aleksandar Vukic, and without which we would certainly not have this point on the agenda today, and not just this point. We wouldn't build roads, eight highways only this year, fast traffic. It is not a topic of the agenda, but has so many capital projects ever been planned in the Republic of Serbia's budget? On capital investment alone, 7.2% of GDP is defined. We're building hospitals. We couldn't have imagined our citizens' aid packages, businesses, if these measures hadn't been implemented. Everything we do just for the better living standards of our citizens. We came to the conclusion that the average salary in March was 555 euros. By the end of this year, we plan to be 600 euros, and according to the 2025 plan, Serbia should have an average salary of 900 euros. In the context of the aforementioned aid packages, it was thought of our pensioners who had indeed borne a great burden in 2014. During last year, besides a 100-euro direct aid, they also received two-fold aid in April and November. Some categories got food packages, then hygiene packages. In the course of this year, a 60-euro direct aid to all full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in particular for pensioners, 50 euros will also be defined. Then, if I am not mistaken, today the payment of money has also begun to help all vaccinated pensioners of 3,000 dinars. The amendments and additions of the PIO Act provide for a more efficient and faster work of the Republic Fund for PIO, all in favour of insurance and rights users. Among other things, the problem that has arisen for early retirement users who have accepted the government's social programme to resolve surplus employees in the process of rationalisation, restructuring and preparation for privatisation will be resolved. This provision provides that the amount of early retirement pension is to be determined in the same way as the age pension for insurance undertakings covered by the Government's decision on the establishment of the programme, which has been missing for five years, i.e. up to two years, which solves the status of these insurance companies. Furthermore, regarding the establishment of a family pension, the proposed change determines that the family pension beyond the death of the insurance company is not determined by early retirement, but by an old or disabled pension that would belong to the insurance company at the time of death, which brings family pensioners to a more favourable position on the basis of the deceased user of early retirement. The proposal then provides for a level playing field for pensioners whose pension amount is lower than the minimum amount of pension, who have made their pension abroad. In this way, all pensioners are put in the same position. We heard during today's debate a number of proposals that represent a solution to some of the problems that have been brought into practice by applying the existing law, and of course, as I mentioned, all in favour of insurance and rights users, and some of them are also the harmonisation and precision of the provisions relating to the case where the farmer's insurance company conducts contractual jobs, the establishment of an out-of-marriage community, the additional arrangement of the conditions for the payment of funeral expenses. The implementation of this law is responsible for the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Social Affairs, and the Republic Fund for PIO as responsible for the implementation of pension and disability insurance will adapt its activities to amended legal provisions. The government of the Republic of Serbia shows constant care for pensioners, so the overall increase in pensions between 2012 and 2021 is an incredible 30.9%. Alexander Vukic's policy has produced good results. The citizens' trust is justified and I am sure that economic growth and a stable policy will lead to the average pension outlined by the 2025 plan being made in 2025 by 440 euros. At the very end of the message that we all want to send to our pensioners as well as to all our citizens is that the key factor for the long-term stabilisation of the PIO system lies primarily in the development of the country, new investment and employment, which is exactly the policy it implements and for which the SNS is headed with our President Alexander Vukic. Of course, in the voting day as well as my fellow MPs, I will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7662	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Ana Miljanic. The word has a national MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7663	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us amendments and additions to the Law on PIO. The pension and disability insurance system itself has suffered a number of reform changes since 2002, and all in order to create conditions for the long-term economic sustainability of the pension system that needs to ensure economic and legal security, as well as the social position of all current and future generations of pensioners. This system covers about a million and 600,000 citizens who are currently retired, but all of us because there is a natural flow that we are all going to end up in that pension insurance system. It is very important to note that these amendments and additions to this law do not cover changing the conditions for obtaining the right to retirement. The amendments to the law concern, above all, the precision of provisions relating to insurance undertakings carrying out their jobs in the agricultural sector, self-employed activities and people who have obtained the right to a pension abroad, the determination of the amount of early retirement, as well as bringing family pension beneficiaries into an equal position. All these changes, but also a series of changes along with these are being made to overcome the problems we face in practice, and they are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The reasons for the adoption of these amendments stem from the need to address the problem created for early retirement beneficiaries who, due to the adoption of the government's social programme for the resolution of surplus employees in the process of rationalisation and preparation for privatisation, were unable to exercise their right to retire and in 2014 due to changes in the conditions of getting retirement. In 2014, then the prime minister, and today the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, has taken heavy economic reforms and a series of unpopular measures to consolidate our public finances, but we have not left people who have lost their jobs without a job due to privatisation without a solution. A transitional solution has been made to obtaining the right to a temporary retirement pension because it is not normal for someone who spent his entire working life in a factory for two years until retirement to seek a new job. The yellow tycoon regime did not interest such citizens. They wanted to know how to do privatisations on their brotherly lines as soon as possible. We remember the numbers that left over 500,000 people out of work, but without any solution. The former regime also maintained the PIO system artificially by taking loans with catastrophic interest rates and paying out pensions from it. Such a system was not long-term sustainable and exactly pensioners, these millions and 600,000 citizens in 2014 suffered the greatest burden of economic reforms and we must be grateful to them. Pensions were then reduced, but citizens, pensioners were first of all aware that it was better to cut pensions and be paid off in a normal way than to be in debt and get into a situation where we have no place to pay their pensions. Positive economic results have enabled us to introduce following all these restrictive measures that we have been forced to follow the measures that have a positive impact on users, to increase pension benefits, to coordinate pensions, and also to provide one-time assistance. All of this would not be possible without major infrastructure projects, without foreign investments, without investment in the economy, without everything we invest and which brings our economy forward, and thus our economy. All of this confirms that the key factor for the long-term stabilisation of the PIO system lies primarily in the development of the country, new investment and employment, which will make a positive relationship between the number of insurance companies and the number of pensioners on the other side and while Aleksandar Vukic is working on solving this problem as well as many other problems so as to have a stable and developed opposition state in the absence of his ideas and his family. I believe that the last attacks on both the president and his brother, but also on his entire family for every conviction and that we must act as a society. That it's not normal for them to have the only kind of political struggle to be personal insults to anyone, but also threats. This must not be allowed and it is not a decent Serbia. The competent citizens of the Republic of Serbia did not damage and embezzle the budget, so they hid the money around the world in accounts. Their boss, Dragan Gilas, has placed all over the world his accounts and his brother-in-law companies. During the former regime's authorities, pensions were just paid out of loans because citizens' money was being poured into their accounts exclusively. They're best spoken of by their political agenda, which they don't actually have. For all these changes, dear minister, for the many we still need to bring in in the coming period you will have our support. I will support the set of proposed amendments and additions to the law, together with my colleagues from my parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7664	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7665	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. There is no doubt that in the voting day, we will support everything that is in front of us today and everything that we have talked about and discussed during today. I think fellow Members of the people who discussed before me have pointed out how important all this is and above all important to our oldest citizens. I'll agree, but I'll also have to point out once again that there were no pensioners and people who are receiving pension today, there wouldn't be any of our countries, because these people who created our country, who are all of this that we're using today, and I think all of what we can do today is not enough to repay them and thank them for everything they've left behind for us, but also for the generations that will come after us. When we talk about pensions and any relief for our pensioners, we have to talk about it from some real point of view and put it from the point of view of real finance, because everything that happened until 2012 when our country led the DS was neither real nor anything that had anything to do with anything real or real. When I say that, I also have to look back at the fact that it was a unique example in the world of catastrophic policy, that we paid salaries and pensions out of credit. So whenever they didn't know where to put the money, which they had previously stolen and put in their pockets, they went the other way and got to the first loan that fell into their hands. It doesn't matter where it's taken, how it comes back doesn't matter where it comes from. The important thing is that the chalk is taken, so in some future period, we'll see how we can get that loan back or pay off. That everything says so and the fact that we were on the verge of bankruptcy in 2012 and when there was a change in the power of the SNS had the most difficult task, and that is not only to prevent a sinking ship, if we watch Serbia at that time, but to find a way out of the real means to pay both wages and pensions. In 2014, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, today, took a step many thought would be the last in his political career. These painful reforms that we took that year brought us into this situation today, which is that we are the fastest growing economy in Europe. We did it all thanks to the pensioners, who brought out the hardest part of those reforms on their backs. We can't thank them enough times for what they did for us at that point. Pensions as pensions are best pictured in the fact that you have data from 2012, you have data from 2020 or 2021. There's no need for anyone to try to play with that data, when our oldest citizens know how many pensions they had in 2012, and how many pensions today. For comparisons, the average pension was around 20,000 dinars, with today more than 30,000 dinars, with a trend of growth. What is very important to point out and underline again is that today's pensions are paid out of real money and that no one in Serbia today from our dear pensioners has to worry about whether the state will have a place to pay them back their pensions fairly. When we talk about this work, we cannot help but look at the fact that today the Serbian Government, but first and foremost the next responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic in these difficult times of the coronary crisis, finds solutions, but first and foremost money how to further economic aid to the oldest citizens. We had a kind of payment last year, this year it will go up to as much as 110 euros. Just a few hours ago, the finance minister, Mr. Sinisha Mali, announced that today, about a million pensioners were in possession of 3,000 dinars belonging to them due to vaccination. When we talk about all this data, it is always very important to point out that none of this today would be possible to lead the budget, finance, but also the state itself in a host way and that it is the sole and sole responsibility of the SNS, headed by Serbian President Alexander Vukic. We can talk today about where we spend a million euros more, we can discuss whether something is more or less needed, but no one in Serbia is questioning whether something will be done, whether a promise will be fulfilled, and above all, whether there is money and funds provided for it. Yes, there are also new roads, and new bridges, and new homes of health, hospitals, clinical centres, but also to help those who need this help most. In a plan announced some time ago, people say it's very ambitious. They wonder if it is possible and is feasible, and over the past few months we have seen that the Serbian plan presented by President Aleksandar Vukic "Serbia 2025" is coming true. Investment in infrastructure, in our youngest, is clearly seen in the future at every step, so it is also seen in the laws that this Assembly and everyone knows well that what SNS and Aleksandar Vukic promises is fulfilled. Accordingly, I would like to say that our pensioners can be calm and be confident that by 2025, the pension will be over 440 euros, while the salary will be over 900 euros. Certainly, the promise will be fulfilled and the opening of the latest factories and the fastest growth of the economy in Europe clearly shows that there is a real basis for this. As far as other factors affecting the growth of our economy, namely pensions and where they are paid, it is unemployment, or employment of new people, people who have been jobless or generally looking at new jobs. In the last session, I discussed and talked about it, I will not repeat myself, as it is perfectly normal for factories to be opened in Serbia. So for some television and media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas it's not news, but news is something they want to play and to spark, they wouldn't somehow try to deal with the shadow and the care of how much more powerful this government is than they are and how much different this government is opening up new jobs, and not like they're shutting down factories and leaving on the street and without dinars to hundreds of thousands of people. The best figure is in statistics that clearly shows that during the DS authorities, Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, unemployment was over 24%, while today it is around 7%, and if you take into account what my fellow MPs before me, the announced factories, investors who proudly announce the arrival of investments in Serbia, it is clear that this level of unemployment will only be reduced. However, the people who are today the loudest critics, and yet the people who are the greatest number of lies, are the people who have ruined our country and put it on its knees in every sense, but above all, the people who brought us to poverty. And yes, of course, these are people who represent the former regime of the Democratic Party. When I talk about them, of course, I primarily think of Dragan Gilas, who used his power to become the richest man in this part of Europe, who now, like some disillusioned pie bull bites anyone who points to his marifetteluke and that it is not normal for only 10 years for the authorities to come from a failed entrepreneur, window washer, a gum seller to come into a position from 74 thousand euros to just 20 and a few million euros in real estate. When we talked about it, he tried to avoid the answers. However, when investigative journalism showed that only in 17 different countries, from Mauritius, Switzerland, Hong Kong, there are more than 53 accounts with 68m euros, these attacks made his attacks worse, but we can't get an explanation or at least an attempt to explain why, how, but above all, and where did that money get on his accounts? In his attacks, the family of President Alexander Vukic, Danil, Vukan, Milica, usually suffers the most from attacks through parents, but for God's sakes these days the most suffering is the brother of Alexander Vukic, Andrej Vukic, whose only fault is that he is the brother of Alexander Vukic and that he loves the SNS. So, now they resented him as a member of the board, as well as a lot of people, loving his party and wanting the party to achieve the best possible result. Now the problem is that he's been in some kind of election somewhere and taking pictures with activists, and it's not intrusive, even in the third row. And that's your attempt to cast a shadow on an election result which, freely I can say, is historic, where once again the representatives of the former regime have been hidden behind me, I don't know what associations of citizens have experienced a debacle. As the dual arches rule, especially in the media that are directly controlled by Dragan Dilas, it is best to take pictures of what my colleague Zoran Tomic was talking about, and it concerns a tweet that, unfortunately, except for my colleague Tomic and I today, no one has mentioned, but I believe that many may not have accompanied it. Vuk Jeremic, a man who busses that the great Democrats, who lately are free to say so, lost the compass, which threatens everyone, calls for some terrible court, remandism, some catastrophic lustration, today went a step further and openly threatened journalists. Essentially, this is a threat to journalists, but it refers to anyone who supports the SNS or responsible policy of the Serbian government, who only follows the path that President Aleksandar Vukic made: "The liars that will be the subject of brutal rematch, headed by their editors, are whining that they had to lie to ensure existence. It will not be a satisfactory defense." To all of this one of the tweeters asked him -- how does he think he's doing it, how he answered it -- by all answering as an organized criminal group. So, each of us who points to the crime that took place at the time of the Democratic Party will be subject to some sort of fearsome lustration and brutal rematchism. Now the police officers, the prosecution, all the people involved in investigating and conducting the arrests of these people who saw only a cup of gold again in Resavica, so that the citizens of Serbia know what it was about, was arrested by a co-worker, Vuk Jeremic, and the man who financed him, apparently it hurt badly because since Patrick Ho didn't finance him, when he ended up in prison, he was narrowed down to a circle of financials, and he was deeply hurt by the arrest of this financier, he continued with his rhetoric and so on to the disastrous and brutal rematch of each of us. This has nothing to do with us. We're used to that. But all I'm interested in is whether any associations that have so far reacted explicitly will send any memos, any statement, come forward with a request from the prosecution that their colleagues, journalists, not be threatened? Because, editors, you'll agree with me, they have television and printed media. Who does this apply to? And will someone finally stand in the way of this arrogant and failed politician who, in some kind of harsh rhetoric, who counseled him like that, or did he come up with it himself, sitting around and saying how to somehow get a censorship, advise everyone in every way and in every way, the harshest insults and the most brutal threats? I don't have the answer to this question, but I'd like to get it from the competent institutions. Because as far as I'm concerned, anyone who makes any threat would have to answer for that threat. I don't want anyone to be separated here, but I want the law applied equally to everyone. The fact that Vuk Jeremic is too rich and he thinks I don't know what kind of factor he is in our country today, he's absolutely not protecting him from the law. I hope that the competent institutions will respond, so that they can explain to them what brutal rematchism is, and who will, how and for what, whine? Dear citizens of Serbia, it is certainly clear to you that such people no longer deserve to be at the head of not the local community but of the home council and that they never question each other again, because when asked, only our country was wronged and only done harm, so Vuk Jeremic, so Dragan Djilas, so Boris Tadic. Dear Minister, I wish you many successes and many other good laws that will improve the lives of all Serbian citizens, no matter how old they are and no matter where they live. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7666	The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7667	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, distinguished Minister Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is a state that runs a great economic and social policy. That the state of Serbia is leading an excellent economic and social policy, as shown by today's debate, also shows today's proposal for a pension and disability insurance law, and this shows all these measures that the Serbian government made in the previous period. Unlike some earlier period until 2012, as my dear fellow MPs spoke of, when pensions were not taken care of, when pensions were small and when most pensioners were on the verge of existence. But that's the time of Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, that's when we had investors in Serbia, but drug dealers. Fortunately, the time that drug dealers are investors in Serbia has passed. One part of those drug dealers, fortunately, are behind bars, one part has been arrested in the past, and hopefully the rest of that drug mob will be broken. Today we have a time of serious investors, an increase in the number of jobs, and today we have time and an increase in wages and pensions. And in what period? In a difficult time for all of Europe and the whole world. So in Europe, when wages and pensions are reduced, Serbia is growing. At a time when we have a crown virus in 2020 and 2021, serious state policy is being led in Serbia by Alexander Vukic and whenever citizens can be helped. Citizens help each other, especially our pensioners. Why the pensioners? This time today I have to isolate them, because pensioners, i.e. A generation of our parents and our grandparents built this country, built Belgrade, built all cities and municipalities in Serbia, built our Serbia. The least the government of the Republic of Serbia and our country can do is repay the pensioners by taking care of them, their health and their fees, i.e. on their pensions, because Serbia today is not a state ruled by tycoons and criminals and their associates, the state of Serbia is a serious state, as I said at the outset, which leads to a serious economic and social policy. I wish you, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, all the happiness that my colleagues who have previously spoken of, in leading this resor who has, among other things, the task of dealing with social policy, responsible social policy as in Serbia, led by the Serbian government and our President Aleksandar Vucic. Unfortunately, we still have those who do not fit such a policy, and such a policy cannot match Dragan Djilas, or Marinika Tepic. Why? Because they don't fit with this kind of policy, taking care of every dinar, that policy suits them that they can put millions in their pockets. They cannot put millions in their pockets as they worked until 2012 in Serbia and Belgrade until 2014 because Serbia today has institutions, has serious, strong and responsible institutions, has a great government of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic. But they don't rest, through their media, through their portals threatening. Who are they threatening? Not only are they threatening political opponents and President Alexander Vukic, they're threatening families. They're threatening both families and Alexander Vukic and his associates, calling for various snipers. How can they not be ashamed? All those who threaten should be processed. We from the SNS and our President, Alexander Vukic, were among the first to condemn one of the graphite on Vračar. So, it's a graphite on Vrakar that addresses the former president of Serbia, and now the president of the Social Democratic Party, Boris Tadic. Did these opposition gentlemen, I think, of that Gilas opposition, put any criticism on the threats we have almost daily and President Alexander Vukic and his brother Andrey and his children? No, even on the contrary, through their media they organise threats and they organise various attacks on both President Vukic and his family. We do not want to be like them, we want to be what we are, responsible citizens of the Republic of Serbia, responsible MPs, responsible members of the government of Serbia who are responsible, who love their Serbia and who protect all citizens. We advocate not only peace and stability in the region, but we also advocate respect for the Constitution and respect for all laws and respect for any citizen regardless of religion and nation and political commitment. We stand for normal Serbia where institutions arrest criminals, where investors are serious businessmen from the country and abroad, where drug dealers are where they belong, behind bars. This is the difference between us from the SNS and our coalition partners, on the one hand, and them, on the other hand, who made pacts with both criminals and drug dealers and those tycoons who put tens and hundreds of millions of euros in their pockets through criminal activities, such as Dragan Gilas. Such a Serbia, which does not allow the rule of crime and corruption, such a Serbia is moving forward. Such a Serbia shows results. Today we're talking about pensions, today we're talking about disability insurance, today we're talking about responsible social policy. So from day to day about various topics. There are no areas in Serbia where the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic failed to show good and responsible results. That's what the citizens see and the citizens get informed and the citizens reward it. Not only do citizens reward it in elections, citizens reward it with support. There is no place in Serbia where President Vukic and members of the Serbian government did not show up without being well welcomed. The people cannot be deceived, the people cannot be lied, and they, Dragan Gilas and the former regime, lied and deceived the people, and not only that, and kidnapped the people. Fortunately, that time is behind us and I hope that it will never return that time of borrowing Belgrade, the borrowing of Serbia, the pacts with drug dealers, the time of snipers, the time of threats to political opponents and the time of liquidation. Today we have one responsible time, a responsible policy. Today we have peace and stability in both Serbia and Serbia, which shows others in the region and Europe how politics is being led. How politics and the fight against the crown of the virus are fought, how good and economic and social policies are conducted, and how politics are conducted despite all the pressures of peace and stability. We show that only strong and stable Serbia, which is in good relations with both world powers and with its co-workers in the region, can produce results, and not only as far as Serbia is concerned, but we also want peace in the whole Balkans. For starters, we show that responsible policy is being conducted in Serbia. We want every pensioner's face in Serbia to be smiled, that every pensioner in Serbia from month to month, from year to year sees and feels the state taking care of him, because our pensioners deserve it, our pensioners and our young, all generations, but today we're talking about pensioners. With such a responsible policy, we will produce results, so in a few decades when my generation, when we are pensioners, our children, our grandkids will hopefully say, these have well run politics and economic and social policy. And in order for us to continue this policy-making process, we must continue to strengthen our institutions in Serbia and, of course, with the full support of our president, Alexander Vukic, who is the leader of and responsible policies, policies that take care of both our pensioners and all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Long live Serbia and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7668	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7669	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pensioners as a pillar of this society, have best understood the importance of these reforms that have been implemented in previous years. Aware of the fact that months have divided the state from the edge of bankruptcy and that in reform it is the only salvation, it has been approached by the recovery measures of the entire system, and the results are best seen today at the time of the pandemic and the global economic crisis. We see these results in all fields thanks to the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. To remind you, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which entered into force in 2014, which began to apply in 2015, applied the conditions for the exercise of the right to an age pension, i.e. the age limit for obtaining the age pension for both sexes and the introduction of a temporary retirement pension, as well as a permanent reduction in the calculation of early retirement pension, etc. Penalties. This draft law would regulate the issue of paying the difference between the amount of retirement pension that would be achieved through the application of pension and disability insurance rules which was valid at the time of the exercise of the right to special cash compensation and the amount of early retirement pensions achieved. It has been found that this difference is also paid to persons who have been declared to be excess employees. Today's disbursement from Serbia's fund is realising without a problem and in time. We can do it today. The key factor for the long-term stabilisation of the PIO system lies in the development of the country, new investment and employment. So, everything contrary to the way of the former regime, which in all ways has looked at only how to afford itself as much as possible by not taking into account the pensioners, even the children, no one in this country has been spared. In debt to the state under the most unfavourable credit conditions, they have made themselves rich, and they have only pushed Serbian citizens into an ambience of debt and the state into absolute bankruptcy. First of all, I think of Dragan Gilas and his cartel, Šolak and Jeremic, Marinik and others, whose situation in their accounts was in exotic places the only motivational factor in life, and the only policy they ran. The people recognized it, and primarily our pensioners, who have borne the greatest burden of reform. Thanks to them, Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, is moving forward in the first place. Pensions are up to 30%, and we don't stop there, we go ahead, into even bigger salaries and pensions, new investments, new jobs, hospital and road construction, factory construction, a new Serbia, which is no longer Europe's appendix. The success, devastated by the former regime, which is some kind of jilas, where the exit requires that the unscrupulous and constantly attack the family of President Alexander Vukic, his brother Andrej, hallucinate, out loud, the jeeps, which the jilas have in abundance. They even give to their partners in thieving. An obvious example is Nikola Jovanovic, whom Dragan Gilas gave an expensive jeep, such as in his haughtiness very often and crush these same jeeps, of course, insulting police officers. But they're not just thrown through the jeeps, but through exclusive locations, as well as mills, which are in euros, which are in real estate. The same tycoon, the yellow tycoon Gilas, seems to think it's worth 2.6 million pensioners, which is why he took everything from the citizens of Serbia, the very future, and the well-deserved peaceful age. But they will never again, because the people of Serbia see, and primarily the pensioners, who have clearly said no to the DOS cartel, who worked for his own personal interest, and certainly not for the citizens of Serbia. The pensioners provided plebiscite support to Alexander Vukic, and they are ordering with us today - lies and deceptions will stop neither Serbia nor Alexander Vukic. We don't give our country, it belongs to our children. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7670	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7671	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, all the people in Serbia, since the change in 2012, and 2013, the governments have started to work at full capacity, deserve that of natural and creative goods, they have a fair job, a decent salary, a decent home or an apartment, accessible education and health care, and most importantly, the right to a dignified age. Education, especially high, should not be mandatory, but health care must be mandatory when people refuse to be treated, especially if they are old and powerless. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our pensioners did not deserve mercy. Generation solidarity requires us to ensure a dignified age for the oldest citizens, and for the powerless citizens, in a way that it will not be due, that it will not be credited, but that their pensions the current generation must earn. Why am I saying this? In 2012, the state touched pensions, and it seems to me, Mr. Martinovic from the budget, with almost 54%. This is proof that the failed privatisations and grabbings of wild predatory privatisations, not only polluted social capital and state capital, and poured it into the pockets of the tycoon. The winner of the transition, but the damage suffered by firing 400,000 people, mostly from the economy, people from the revenue part of the budget and contributions, taxes and contributions, fell to the spent side. Instead of good people, there were social cases. That's why pensions were so high at 54%, and they were usually barely paid out of debt, and for that debt, given the wild predatorial privatisation, given the lack of investment, there was no source of debt recovery, because the debts went and the spending, instead of making pensioners, loans were taken at very expensive interest, and so Boris Tadic and his Camaria tried to justify themselves to the pensioners and to try to perpetuate their government over the debts, and at that moment we almost all lived on the man in charge, not the earner. The thing has turned to investment, because without investment you can't create jobs, you can have a wish, but without fresh money, you can't start investments, especially those in production. What this government has done well is not only to build buildings and infrastructure, but to build parallel to the infrastructure the plants of the processing industry etc. which guaranteed exports and income. Many have spit foreign investors, and these foreign investors have opened domestic factories here, and only foreign capital, and the factories are our own, and with this foreign capital, there have been new markets and every foreign investor when they started to build a factory, so the Serbian factory in Serbia, each of them has brought a piece of their own market, so we have both provided production and exports, placed and therefore today's pensioners can happily calculate that the euro course in Serbia has been still for 9 years, not only thanks to the Gusterbaters, because they also existed at the time of the former authorities and the former regime, but thanks to the fact that through investments and increased exports of the foreign currency, which is very easy to match increased imports, compared to exports. And Serbia's imports during the former regime were covered by 52%, and now it's covered by over 70%. What the pirates bring with gratitude we receive, but what foreign investors have brought, not only money, it has been a standstill course and low inflation, and a 9-year standstill, but it has not been at the expense of the citizens of Serbia and the damage to foreign reserves. Foreign exchange reserves, despite stable exchange rates, grew in foreign exchange accounts and gold reserves. Today we probably have three times more gold than we had, and there's a story that at the time of their government, we don't know where certain gold reserves from the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia ended, and that made it possible for us to have better pensions, to have more regular pensions and more regular inflows into the PIO Fund. These more regular inflows were provided with 320,000 new employees who mainly worked in production, and when we once said foreign labour would come to Serbia, we were not believed. Let me ask you, who's working in the construction industry now? We've come into a position especially us in Srem, that we don't have enough workers, as many new jobs as we have. It employs 320,000 people, and every month, these people get, when we count the average salary, at 538 euros, and now it seems to me that it has grown to 550 euros and that is over 160m euros, our citizens earn it and it is seen in the streets. You can tell by the number of cars. Those cars are fueling up. Of that fuel, there's excise and VAT. From these pairs and from that budget are funded and dotted pensions to the extent that they need them now, and that is three times less than it has been touched during their power. The 160m euros are also covered by contributions, which are probably around 70 to 80m at least annually, which are municipally, which for PIO, which for health care, etc. It seems to me that these contributions total 72% of those 160 million. That's what triggered spending in Serbia. When consumption increased, of course, VAT revenues also increased. As far as agricultural pensions are concerned, I have to point out that it's a bad message: better to be a social case than a peasant. The pension and disability insurance system of farmers during the former regime was catastrophic. Anyone who was fired from the factory, and had a piece of land, was inserted into the insurance companies of the farmers' PIO, resulting in huge debts. Does anyone know that this debt with the farmers' interest on the PIO fund? Many didn't even ask when he was getting into it. They just got people to owe. No one has ever provided them with a solution to become bonds. This resulted in a debt that was sealed in the amount of other 180 billion interest. Now it's far more and I think it's about 250 billion debt that can't be charged. I already have several governments and ministers asking us to find a way to liquidate it, to get people to pay, not to punish those who paid, to pay 5% and interest and to write them off. That's how we get our income. It's a one-time income, but we'll get constant income. We'll get the PIO farmers back. I'm 20 years old in agricultural years, and it's not good that, say, a PIO insurance officer who's 15 years old has the same pension, that's that one who's 40 years old in PIO insurance, has the same pension as the one who's been paying for 15 years. That's not good. There's got to be a way for someone who's been paying for years to have a bigger pension. Number two, those who do not have a job, and are over 50 years old, should be suspended from payment of PIO insurance because he will never get 15 years of employment and will not qualify for retirement. There's something we have to do to just relieve these people. Do you know that certain incentives in agriculture can't be used by those who owe to PIO insurance, and they can't pay. Let's find a way to get an incentive, to beat it in a certain way, what people like me say, to beat it up, to beat up any income with debt. The state owes for incentives, they owe the state for PIO insurance and to simply secure some inflow into the Fund and to get them involved in the system. What are you going to do with health insurance? We have to do something for the farmers. The number of farmers' insurance, the debt exceeded the interest rate rate of 100 billion. The number of insurance companies has fallen to 94 thousand insurance companies at 650 thousand agricultural holdings. Guys, we need to make sure they have the right to be treated. It is a problem inherited along with interest, it is a failure of the previous regime, but let's try. Everything was abandoned and abandoned, every problem. Let's try to solve the problems they've left us, though they resent us being quick enough to solve all the problems they've left us. They'd be jobs, but they won't be factories, because factories are polluting the environment. They are used to smoking only two chimneys in Serbia during their rule. From Saturday, when you went down to Macedonia, only two factory chimneys were smokers. They're used to it. They were used to raising a 6% interest loan to pay their debts to the citizens. They didn't make any exports to repay the debt. It wasn't only the debt that burdens us, it was that they didn't make exports, as a farmer who took out a loan and, instead of buying a tractor and land, he went to sea, flying, went all in consumption, and then, when the time came to pay off, he didn't buy a tractor or land, he had nothing to pay for. There's no export to repay the debt. These are bad agricultural holdings, and during their rule they were these bad agricultural holdings that didn't care what they were going to do for generations to come, when they were all sold out. They tell us they've left only 15.5 billion in debt. That's not true, they left 17.6. They won't say the London and Paris club has forgiven 6.7 before and they've filled it out. So they also spent the 6.7 billion because they filled in and the debt was reduced. They won't say they got 4.5 billion donor support. They will not say they have received revenues from privatisation, including some special state-owned, "Mobtel" and so on, which amounted to five to six billion. They won't say they spent 16 billion in that period, so when they spent their privatisation revenues, they say -- the debt grew weak during Kostunica, the smallest growth in debt was... Well, of course, when he sold everything and used the relief he got, the forgiveness of interest, the forgiveness of part of debt and interest from the Paris and London clubs. Well, of course, when the situation made it easier for them, of course, that debt couldn't grow at the time, because the factories made by the pensioners were being spent. They spent all the social capital that was worth, I don't know, ten times more. They spent that revenue in total from privatisation, five to six billion, including that revenue from the Mobtel for 1.2 or 1.5 billion. That's what they've been doing, and we're carrying the consequences. That's why, unlike them, we have to earn pensions. Pensions must be drastically higher, but we have to earn them. As far as farmers are concerned, we need to find a model to correct the injustice that is going on -- better to be a social case than a peasant, because mass farmers, in order not to wait 65 years, sell part of their property, give up their property, sell it out, so that they can exercise the right to social assistance, and that means again we're pushing people on the income side. Let's stop this motto - better to be a social case than a peasant - and make a fair system for taxing farmers and for pension and disability and health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7672	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7673	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, are now ahead of us with proposals to amend and supplement the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Since 2014, we have been trying to determine legal issues that are important for the exercise of personal rights, such as the right to pension, improve, as well as to resolve certain legal dilemmas that will help citizens in a much easier and faster way to exercise their personal rights. The right to pension as a constitutional category is achieved by all employed natural persons, by farmers, entrepreneurs and other persons who meet the requirements laid down by law, which relate to the years of life of the insurance companies themselves, as well as the years of work experience achieved. Under the current Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, all persons who have met the legal requirements, or if they have fulfilled one or a cumulative both conditions, may be entitled to an age pension, which is if they have completed 65 years of life or 15 years of employment or if they have reached 45 years of employment, regardless of age. However, the reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act exist, above all, from the need to address the problem created for early retirement beneficiaries, who, due to the adoption of the Social Programme of the Government, were left without the possibility of obtaining a full retirement pension. Indeed, by amending and supplementing the 2014 law, this age limit has been shifted, but at the same time the possibility of citizens being able to take advantage of the early retirement institute. And in 2014, it wasn't just practice in the Republic of Serbia, many European and world states did it much earlier, so the United States, Australia and Norway moved the age line to 67 years, while Great Britain and Finland announced the shift of the age limit to 68 years. Also, the proposed changes and additions will finally solve the problem of the status of persons who, at the time of termination of employment, and due to the decision of their employers, i.e. the systematisation act, were missing five or two years until the first conditions for reaching retirement age. I am really glad that we all managed to find a model to solve the existential problem of certain categories of persons together, and thus we have shown that we have the problems and interests of citizens in the first place and that we are always trying to find the most optimal solutions for both the state and the citizens. Certainly, this problem, which is why we are today discussing the proposed amendments and additions to the laws, existed much earlier, and above all in the period from 2008 to 2012, when we were all witnessing the daily closure of social enterprises and factories under the auspices of the then Democratic Party, where we had just drawn the worst end from employees in these factories. Serbia started with difficult fiscal consolidation measures in 2012, 2013 and 2014, but these measures were really necessary in those years to ensure normal functioning of the state and to create sound foundations for Serbia to progress, while citizens at the same time have higher salaries and pensions. In 2012, we faced a catastrophic financial situation. At that time, there was enough money in the Republic of Serbia's budget to pay one month's salary or one month's pension. The public debt amounted to over 70% of our GDP, and representatives of the former regime, at monthly and annual levels, owed us commercial loans with interest rates of over 7%. And we all made a decision together that we had to change these things from the roots. As I said, all of these problems are the result of the devastating economic and economic policy that was led from 2008 to 2012, when the katans were placed daily on social enterprises and factories and where, according to some estimates, 500,000 of our fellow citizens remained on the street. And the relatives of such a devastating policy, not just for employees of social enterprises, not just for factory workers, were representatives of the Democratic Party. And when we talk about the Democratic Party, these are the people who are today at the head of certain opposition parties and who almost daily falsely promise the people that if they return to power, they will provide them with a better life. You today, when you listen to both Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic and all the other feathers of the former Democratic Party, you really at one point think that you didn't live at a time when the Democratic Party was in power, which is exactly the time when the businesses were closed, when the factories were closed, when they didn't know, they didn't know, and they didn't want to improve those factories, to provide new markets, but it was much simpler and easier for them to shut down, and for the people who worked in those factories to send them to the bureau or send them to the street. But not only were they firing, they were also doing criminal privatisations to provide certain funds to themselves and close people from the then Democratic Party. Because of this devastating policy, unemployment reached an incredible 23% in 2012 and 2013. They were not able to provide new markets, so that factories and social enterprises were provided with a new flow of money through domestic and foreign investments, but were fired. And when you have more layoffs than new jobs, you also have fewer outs for pension and disability insurance, so the pensions in 2012 amounted to 150 euros, the average earnings of 250 euros, and today, when the SNS is headed by the state and when we run a serious, responsible and hardworking policy, we today have an average profit of 550 euros, it is expected to be 600 euros by the end of the year. Well, what does that show? It shows that the SNS, above all, has a clear plan and has a clear policy, and their only basic plan is to falsely promise, to attack the National Assembly, to attack police officers outside the National Assembly, to Vuk Jeremic, as my colleague Mirkovic said today, to call for rematch. I would ask Mr. Jeremic, instead of calling for rematchism, give us more to tell us how much money he spent on official travels around the white world, and he didn't do anything about the Kosovo and Metohija issue. Indeed, when the SNS came to the head of the state, we knew, we knew in part what was ahead of us. We didn't know we were on the edge of the ambis, but we ran a serious, responsible and hardworking policy, and we're doing it today. We are today the first country in the Western Balkans to attract foreign direct investment and this allows us to open new factories, to create new jobs, and to have unemployment below 10% today. Because of such policy, we have best faced the pandemic of the coronary virus and while others in Europe and the Western Balkans have been tightening the belt, we have had enough money to open new hospitals, to provide four kinds of vaccines, to provide respirators, to provide new hospital beds, but we also had enough money to continue with infrastructure projects. And today we have enough money to build eight new highways at the same time. All this clearly shows that representatives of the former regime were exclusively interested in personal profit. And when I say personal profit, instead of Dragan Gilas and his experts who have, I hope, who have the same mechanical brain to know how to calculate 100 minus 20 minus 20, so today he is one of the richest people in Serbia, instead of attracting domestic and foreign capital to maintain factories, his widely known "Multicom Group", while he was the mayor of Belgrade, where there is a conflict of interest directly, was pulling taxpayers' money through public enterprises and through city institutions, which is the money of all Serbian citizens. And of these couples today, the salaries of Marinika Tepic are paid, which is the woman who called for a declaration of genocide in Srebrenica, many others who are constantly on the daily level campaign against Alexander Vukic and do so through their media. Never forget that they today have much more media space than the SNS when it was in opposition in 2008. They have their own newspapers, they have their own televisions, they have their tabloids and they have countless of their portals. I want to finish, so I can leave enough time for my colleagues to discuss. Pensioners and employees of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, DS were essential during the election campaign, and how they live and how they live, it was less important to them. So today when Serbia is economically strong and stable, we can say that both young and pensioners and employees and unemployed are equally important to us, because only together can we continue to build better and stronger Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7674	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7675	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected minister, not to lie today, speak only about this topic, and the topic is the Law on PIO, not to take into account your presence in this parliament and everything that happened last year, would be lacking. In fact, you, a respected minister, are in some way in this room an association and a personification of everything that the government and the president did last year, and it is about pandemics, diseases and sufferings that have fuelled the whole world, including Serbia. I will certainly take the opportunity to praise everything that the government and the president did in battle, those measures that we started when it came to the pandemic, then I am the course of the development of the pandemic and everything that has been done to prevent and stop it, and, of course, as some minimum satisfying result that is ahead of us today, which is the vaccination of Serbia and not only the vaccination of Serbian citizens, but all those in the region who wanted it, which Serbia has given that opportunity. I will certainly take the opportunity to invite all of our citizens, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have not done so so far, to be vaccinated, to be responsible for themselves, to Serbia, to the people, because today people from the region, and almost in buses, come to the Republic of Serbia to be vaccinated, grateful for everything we do, so I see no real reason why not every man in Serbia does so and thus help himself and the family and society at all. Don't mind me. I took this opportunity to call all our citizens. I will certainly take the opportunity to thank both the President and the Government for not only limiting this vaccination business to borders, i.e. citizens living within the borders of the Republic of Serbia, but, above all, giving their assistance to the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, but also to all the countries and our community living in all the countries in the region. But now let's get back to the law itself. If you ask me what would be the main feature of this law, I would say justice. Justice, first of all, because it's like that to those who have probably put forth the greatest burden of reforms that we've been through in recent years. If I'm welcome to the data, dear minister, it's close to 15,000 pensioners in the Republic of Serbia, correct me if I'm wrong. Justice, above all, because it is these people who are responsible for the benefits and results that both Serbia and its citizens enjoy today, as well as all citizens, our citizens in the environment. They are the ones who presented the greatest burden of reforms and measures that will be proposed by the then Prime Minister and today's president of the state. Today, thanks to their sacrifice, let me say, and to their sacrifice, we see the benefits and results of what has been done in recent years. In the end, I have to mention one thing that's been undetected in the past few days. On 17 May, a joint session of the Serbian-Serbian government was held, and it was decided at that session that, in addition to September 15th, which has been marked as a common date for Serbia and Serbia, we will begin with another date, on the date of the Nevesinjska rifle - July 9th, as a reminder of the event, when our people left in 1875, to say, in the restoration of independence, if you will, the statehood of Serbia-Montenegro, in one final historic restoration of Serbian statehood in the Balkans. The third Serbian uprising could be freely said. This is something that certainly enjoys great respect and undivided support in our people in the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. The government president's move, as well as the citizens' associations that were part of this, which deserves great respect for all of us living in these areas today, and it would be said that some media have said - the Nevesin rifle again among the Serbs. In addition to this, I will say that 50 years of Nevesin's rifle as a central event was held in Belgrade with three-day celebrations. Now, thanks to this president and this government and the decisions of these political structures in Belgrade, it looks like we're going to mark 150 years of this event in Belgrade as well. This is, of course, just another symbolic act of support and the expression of unity with our people, first of all, in Republika Srpska, but also with a people who live in the environment and something that deserves the undivided support of both the people and the parliament, and the law that you have brought to this respected home today, so we Members of the SNS, the honourable minister, will certainly support this law in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7676	I thank the People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7677	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Madam Ministers, honourable MPs, finally what to say about this law, which was detailed by my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Let me just say one sentence to say that with the amendments to this law, finally justice has reached 17,000 pensioners and they will get what they are promised. This is what we promised them, and we said that when the country comes into an economic situation we would be able to do it. That's how the SNS works. It's a deal. It's a deal. It's a deal. Dear People's MPs, these days, day by day Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, daily place lies at the expense of Alexander Vukic, SNS, the president's parents, the president's brother. Let me say that these days they place some very dangerous things at the expense of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, which are dangerous for the identity of Serbia and for the identity of the Serb people. Look at the wonders, they accused Alexander Vukic and the SNS of waging a war in the '90s. Now it's time, ladies and gentlemen, to clarify that. I believe the citizens will understand what this is all about. No one is serious in the West anymore, nor in the East claims what Mr. Tadic claims – that we have waged wars and culprits for these wars. I'm going to break up tonight after Tadic, Jeremiah and Gilas. Dear Vice President, I'll go with Dr. Francis Tudjman's quote. I'm using special foreign sources, if this is a foreign source, to see who led the war and who was responsible for the war. Dr. Franjo Tudjman, president of the Republic of Croatia, said: "It could have been without war, but Croatia did not want it. We estimated that only by war can we gain Croatia's independence," finished quote, speech in Ban Jelačić Square, Zagreb, 24 May 1992. Mr. Tadic, do you understand now who led the war and who is responsible for the war in the '90s? Do you understand, Mr. Jeremiah? Do you understand, Mr. Gilas, when you call us and Alexander Wolfie war-squawkers? Another quote, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, again Croatian, which I will quote by Janko Bobetka, the general of the Croatian army, who said, quote: "Serbia without war would not allow us to gain independence. It was clear that our country would not be elected unless we fought for it with weapons. No one would allow us to leave Yugoslavia, finished quote, Janko Bobetko in the book "All Our Battles", Zagreb 1996, page four. Mr. Gilas, Mr. Tadic, Mr. Jeremic, is this quote clear to you that is not Serbian but is Croatian, who has waged war and who is responsible for war? Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will now quote Warren Cimmerman, a former ambassador to Belgrade, to see who he is accusing of war. I quote - in my haste to separate from Yugoslavia, Slovenians simply did not pay attention to 22 million Yugoslavs who were not Slovenians, they bear a significant responsibility for the bloodshed that took place after their separation, completed quote, Warren Cimmerman, "The Origin of a disaster", Belgrade in 2003, on page 46. Mr. Tadic, Jeremiah and Mr. Gilas, do you understand who is responsible for the war and who has waged the war, because such autoskilling ideas and your claims history does not know. The fourth quote, again by Warren Cimeran, quote – in August 1991 I failed, pay attention, to convince Tudjman and to convince Bobetka to give up the war option, Tudjman then admitted to starting a general attack on JNA and the Chetnic separatists. When I proposed to Tudjman to consider another variant, about giving autonomy to Serbs in Croatia, and thus rejecting the war option, Tudjman refused any further discussion on the topic, finished quote, Warren Cimmerman in the book The Source of a disaster in Zagreb in 1996, page 95, 96. Mr. Gilas, Mr. Tadic, Mr. Jeremic, do you, after these quotes, have your finger on TV screens under your control to say this to the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to the whole of Europe and the world? Let's move on, and that's not all. Josip Boljekovac, who served as Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia in 1990, means at the beginning of the war, says, quote – the goal was war at all costs to create the possibility of sharing Bosnia, finished quote, Josip Boljekovac in the book "The Truth Must Come Out" in Zagreb in 2009. What do you say now, Mr. Tadic? What do you say now, Mr. Jeremiah, Wolf of Jeremiah, and what do you say now, Mr. Gilas? The next quote is James Becker, former U.S. Secretary of State, quote, pay attention to this quote, because it's also very important from a very important statesman at the time. Citiram – Slovenia and Croatia are the causes of war in the former Yugoslavia, their violent secession was contrary to the acts of the Helsinki Agreement. Yugoslavia was directly pushed into accounting by military means by unilateral declaration of independence against our warnings, completed quote, Jelena Guskova, "The History of the Yugoslav Crisis 1990-2000", Belgrade in 2003, page 28. What do you say now, Mr. Tadic, and you're accusing him of war the day before yesterday? You accuse your country, accuse and lie the whole world in the name of your country and your people. In a statement of 12.1.1995, James Becker said at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee at the US House of Representatives, I quote – a unilateral declaration of independence by Slovenia and Croatia and their use of force in taking over the border crossings caused a civil war, a quote concluded. What do you say now, Mr. Gilas and Mr. Tadic? I am now going to again one Croat, honorable and congratulatory, and this is the Croatian painter Edo Murtic, quoted as saying – it was a terrible pain to me and to hear from Tudjman several months before the 1990 elections, he came to my studio and enthusiastically started talking about the fact that the Croatian people had to get their country through blood and that we from HDZ would do what Pavelic failed to do in 1941, that 50% of Serbs would have to pack their bags and move away, and 50% would stay, become Croats or disappear, finished reading, "New List" Rijeka, January 2001 and the identity of the magazine No. 61, 2003, page 11. What do you say now, Mr. Gilas and Mr. Tadic? Are you ever going to have a finger on your cheeks in this country again to go out on TV screens and claim what you're saying the day before, Mr. Tadic? He goes on to say Edo Murtic – I told Tudjman he was crazy and had to be treated, finished quote. Let's move on, Martin Špegelj, you've heard of him, who was minister of military during Tudjman's Independent Croatia says – Tudjman was a patient and his illness besides, had disastrous consequences for the health of Serbs in Croatia. The consequences would be less if the Supreme's disease hadn't spread to a significant number of his followers, completed a quote, "Feral Tribune" in 2001. What do you say now, Mr. Gilas, Mr. Wolf Jeremiah and Mr. Tadic? And last quote, I could quote thousands of quotes for days and nights, but I'm going to quote Tudjman again in the finals. Citiram – Serbs in Croatia should be declared Croatian citizens and called Orthodox Croats, a provision of Orthodox Serbs should be banned, finished quote, Tudjman, in February 1990 from the book "Ten replies to Stjepan Mesic", Belgrade in 2008, page 49. This isn't all, Madam Vice President, now we're going to move on to one part of the other quotes in the final. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on a daily basis, not only Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, but also his media associates attack President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS, MPs, the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm just going to quote Vesna Mališić, the one who attacks us daily in the media, who is usually the editor of one weekly, in 1.2.2019 in "The Imprint of the Week" Olije Bećković said, quote – Serbia is a madhouse, and the key to the madhouse has one man, finished quote. Of course she meant Wolfie. Mr. Radomirovic, who was president of the UNS, recommended leaving his post, ran out of text. Why hasn't any journalist responded to these statements? No reporter. Next, it's not just the press. One part of the university professor, a part of the scientists from the institute, and among them is Prof. Dr. Slobodan Prvic, known for the daily hate outcrys against Alexander Vukic, the SNS, the MPs, especially the family of Alexander Vukic and his parents. In 21.3.2020, this Slobodan Parvanov said – as part of the pandemic, the country is managed by complete idiots, a complete quote. Dear citizens, they were run by honorable men, honorary doctors, honorary crisis staff, and among the best in Europe. Can you believe Gilas' scientists do this to their country and country? The same Dr. Science Slobodan Parvanov told the President of the Republic on 21.3.2020, and I quote, "Vučić is a multi-bole leader," finished the quote. Furthermore, on July 25, 2020, he said, I quote - "Who has at all in Vučić's environment without being a moral nitwit and a complete fool at all," finished the quote. This man, for the last four years in every Sunday, under the control of Dragan Gilas, spit not only on the president and on his family and on his parents, but also on the Members of the People. When he saw, or when his conscience caught up with him, he said of himself, I quote, "I think I've turned out to be a moron a million times in my life" that citizens know a fool, "I really don't have the right to salt someone's brains, I realized I'm a fool. Not once but a thousand times" finished quote, Mr. Professor. You just gave yourself the grade you deserve. Gilas's frames went unhindered and called for murder, doctors' professors. Among them is a famous politician, today he runs a political council in a party controlled by Gilas and Jeremic, and his name is Dr Vesna Pesic. Look at the miracles and she calls at that age for the murder of President Vukic. I quote, imagine what she said -- "If Brnabićka resigns, you know, a lifelong Vukic is about to come. E there is no boycott, only a tube in the head” finished quote, Evening News published in 19.1.2020. And not only that, a journalist on the list under the control of Dragan Gilas daily insults President Vukic with the most groundbreaking insults. That's what he called the president of Vucica a monster, a man with no face and shame, an example of debauchery, an irrelevant character. Have you ever, respected citizens heard that any of the representatives or MPs of the SNS say this about anyone and behold a miracle, a candidate for academics has returned, and this is Goran Markovic, the director. He's the one who swears all the time and he's gonna, he's gonna pretend to be an academic. He said, quote -- "The wolf is a receiver, and the crowd is its natural environment," finished quote. Gentlemen of the Academy, choose him as an academic if he can be an academic at all. Academic must be an honorable man. There he is, miraculously, after a year he answered again, I know, I see you've guessed, Professor Jovo Bakic. The day before yesterday, he advocates foreign factors to interfere in our elections. He says he himself went to beg the Germans to interfere now in the election process that will take place in a year. You know who Jovo Bakić is, to remind you, and I've often talked about him? He said, quote, just one quote from him – "The armed force is the only way to shift power and shed blood," finished the quote, and added, quote – "I would prefer to give the state summit in Sava and Danube," finished the quote. Is that the character of a professor at the University of Philosophy? It's a sociologist character, and no wonder where he was doctored to talk like that. Dragan Gilas said on 16.4.2020, quote -- "Vučić has mental problems, has some disorders," a quote concluded. Every day he invents these lies, gentlemen of the opposition, headed by Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, especially these days, as someone said, about Vukic's brother, Andrej. I'll just remind you. You lied, Mr. Gilas and Jeremic and Mr. Tadic that Andrej had taken over the elite restaurant "Fransh", remember how you lied, and the restaurant owner Nikola Dimitrijevic called and said it was an eyesless lie. What do you think we forgot? You keep lying about a lie from day to day. Next, you lied that Andrej Vukic was recalibrating a famous Saturday guest named Lajoša Chakanja and buying from him a famous restaurant called "Bos". As a witness, you listed Tink Bogdan. Look at the wonders, the honorable and congratulating Tinker Bogdan, he appeared appalled with such fiction and, of course, denied the whole thing. You lied about water being poisoned in Belgrade and Serbia as a whole. The truth was it was perfectly correct. You lied that journalist Stefan Cvetkovic of the White Church was kidnapped and you accused Alexander Vukic of it, and the truth is that the journalist staged his own disappearance with the aim of blaming, as you say, the dictator and the state of Serbia. In the end, all of these, gentlemen of the opposition headed by Gilas, Jeremic and Tadic, make statements, write down, frame, place on the wall of your study to remind yourselves every day of your high reach of patriotism, moral... patriotism and civilization's achievements. Gentlemen, avoid hatred, lies and violence because with your hatred and lies and lies we will not respond to hate, we will not respond to violence because we are aware that hate cannot defend Serbia but only by modernising and building and loving and beautiful education and deep patriotic feelings. While our President Vukic daily returns Serbia's international reputation as he did last night, implementing peace policy, security policy, solidarity policy, health policy of all our citizens in the country and the region, the policy of accelerated economic progress so far between Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic lead the policy of filling their private accounts by various destinations of the world, from Mauritius, to Austria, the Netherlands, Switzerland in 20 countries to over 100 accounts, mudning their people and their country. I'm sure the D.A.'s office will comb their accounts properly and that justice will finally come and find them in the boulevard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7678	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7679	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, dear and esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I won't be long. I'll try to be as short and concise as possible, not wanting to repeat myself to my distinguished colleagues. I don't need the things that are here today to point out more than once what value is in the PIO system in terms of security and the institution represented by the PIO Fund, but the primary security of pension payments and security that comes in that third life age that something that is most important for the citizens and for all of us who are going to find ourselves in such a life-saving position tomorrow is something that is most important to you and something that gives you some security at that age. We, like all former Yugoslav republics, inherited this Bizmarkov, to say, system and formula and, of course, the PIO Fund and the state of Serbia during this past period of time, had the obligation to maintain the stability of the fund. However, in the new circumstances and consequences of various authorities during the past time period, the Fund was no longer able to play its primary fund role and without serious and systematic intervention by the state in terms of normative, changing normative acts that we now have before us and sublegal acts, practices that are constantly changing in this case and the need to intervene and normatively come into a position to consider such acts in continuity. But it's less important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it's less important for our pensioners. It is much more important that this stability in terms of economic growth and economic growth, but also the stability of the PIO Fund in the next period of time, it is indicated that everything will in some way be less and less of a problem in this matter and that, simply to say, as complex as this normative and all the obligations that come from the PIO Fund to our insurance companies, we will be able to resolve it more easily. This also shows all that we have in this time period, although this system is based on intergenerational solidarity, it is important to point out in this kind of story that we during the period of reform of the sick, when President Aleksandar Vucic became Serbian prime minister, had to enter those reforms. I would say that for the first time in this situation, we have had one solidarity by pensioners, where they are intergenerational, and now in the opposite direction, shown that they are ready to give up some guaranteed benefits, in terms of pension, in order for the state of Serbia, in order that its institutions, including the PIO Fund and all other budgetary consumers, who are and how important, have different social separations to be paid on a continuous basis, that they understood this and that without economic growth they could not have expected something guaranteed you in a certain way and by law. Simplely, the budget, the state of the PIO Fund, the tax collection, the system behind it was a classical corruption system, which, through privatisation, destroyed all the resources, which our pensioners, our grandparents built, one system where they earned their pensions, someone during the night practically destroyed it all in a decade. In all these ruins we had to make, and thank God that we had such a prime minister, today President Vukic, who gained strength, not to go populistly, such as yellow terror, I purposely say -- yellow horror, for pensioners who were in that period, unreally increasing pensions, which had nothing to do with fund growth, or inflow, or economic growth in Serbia, had nothing to do with borrowing. Of course, in this context, we had to coordinate everything that was necessary for this growth to be gradual, but primarily secure. And today we have these results of a gradual increase in pensions, we have a situation where pensioners are in this era, to say pandemics, first priority. And today this support of 3,000 dinars goes first to the pensioners, as well as everything else. This is the category where the state of Serbia, the Serbian leadership, is first committed and we never forget our pensioners in the context of the story, because we know that their age in which they are, in the third age, is not the age in which they can primarily contribute, although there is a possibility, in any case, that something is done extra, part-time, with pension etc., but that pension is still primary for them. I would point out another problem here, in communication with citizens, pensioners who worked in large systems of construction firms, who worked in the former Yugoslav republics. We have a lot of cases like this where they've spent, say, on large infrastructure constructions of objects, roads or any other, where they've spent not one smaller period, but several years. They have a problem with synchronising their employment and pensions in all of this, because they have done it there, but they can't do it in a certain way through their pensions in Serbia. Unfortunately, the former Yugoslav republics, I will name an example only of the Republic of Croatia, which in every sense discriminatory relations with now already citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for example, persons who have earned a pension in part or in full in the Republic of Croatia, have not received pension payments for the 1990s until today. They all conducted administrative disputes and even many conducted proceedings before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has entered the EU, thousands now and citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were citizens of the Republic of Croatia have not been left behind for those pensions in the 1990s. The Republic of Croatia, today an EU member, has seriously wronged these families, these people. They've lost huge financial inflows. Their families suffered a lot and never the Republic of Croatia, this Mr. Linta knows, did not want to pay those pensions back in the 1990s, war conflicts and everything else, arguing that someone was not at a particular address or certain things they tried, of course, through a system they manage, to banalise, but in the end of all that they never paid those pension insurance companies for that period of the 1990s. What I also want to say is that this period of the third period of pensioners in which they are located, the health insurance they have in the Republic of Serbia, I can freely say that nowhere is as well arranged as in the Republic of Serbia. No country in the region, if you want the former Yugoslav Republic, not to mention how it is arranged in the EU or other more organised countries, you can't get as good health insurance anywhere as in Serbia. It is a large benefit and, as much as we try to challenge progress in this segment, investment in the health sector, investment in the PIO Fund and all of this means one security for the pensioners themselves. For this reason, I am fully convinced that security, regular payment, pension growth, better health insurance, or better healthcare in this context is something that is most important for their future, the future of pensioners. What's certainly more important to me is that in communication with the pensioners daily, it's even more important for them, which is the future for their children and the future for their grandchildren. They feel it every day, feel that Serbia is now going on an upward path and see security not only for themselves, but also for its children and for its grandchildren. In this context, I believe that today's legislative changes that are going in this direction are a good solution, a solution that will surely have to experience some changes in the future, but what is most important is that the pensioners of the Republic of Serbia can feel safe, can expect the regularity of pension payments, can expect the gradual growth of these pensions, and for their children and grandchildren can expect the future in which they will be able to work tomorrow, to work, to get jobs, and to start with this system, as I started out, intergenerational solidarity with the PIO Fund, and that our pensioners, their grandparents, get regular pensions and have the best possible health care. For that matter, Serbia has lived!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7680	Thank you. The last on the list to be reported is the People's MP, Miodrag Lint. Eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7681	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, as well as other colleagues and colleagues, I would like to welcome the Ministry's intention to address the citizens' problem covered by the government's social programme to address the surplus unemployed. In this brief presentation, I would stress the many problems faced by pensioners from the region, i.e. the former Yugoslav republics. Mr. Šukalo mentioned the problem facing 50,000 pensioners in the Republika Srpska region, now largely their descendants, therefore, their children and grandchildren. In fact, the Francis Tudjman regime in the summer of 1991 abolished pension payments to Serbian pensioners and did not pay them all the time of the war. The exiled Serbs continued to come to Croatia after the end of the war in 1996, 1997, and re-activated their pensions, however, this empty period of six, seven, eight and more years remained. So, according to the Association of Pensioners from Croatia, Croatia owes back outstanding pensions for about 50,000 pensioners and their descendants, on average 81 pensions per pensioner. That's one huge problem. Croatia has persistently refused to resolve the issue. We all know that retirement is property law and that law doesn't go out of date. In that sense, I have repeatedly proposed and I will now repeat that I think it is important that the Serbian government initiates a fundamental dialogue with the official Zagreb on solving numerous problems of the exiled Serbs, but also a number of other damaged citizens, with the aim of finding a fair and lasting solution to these problems. The basis of the dialogue would have to be a very important interstate agreement, the Vienna Succession Agreement, which was signed in 2001 by representatives of the states that originated in the former Yugoslavia, which was ratified in the parliaments of those countries and entered into force in the summer of 2004. That agreement has seven annexes. In particular, Annex 7, Annex G of that Agreement, which is called - Private property and acquired rights, is very clear and precise, says that all citizens and legal entities must be returned and protected rights that they had on Day 31. 12. In 1990, all contracts concluded during the war, under pressure and threat, must be declared void. Croatia has been obstructing the implementation of this annex all along. Under international law, under the Constitution of Croatia, under the Constitution of BiH and other states created in the area of the former Yugoslavia, the Vienna Succession Agreement has stronger legal power than domestic laws. I think it is important that, as a state, we insist on opening a fundamental, real dialogue, related to resolution and issues of outstanding pensions and housing rights issues and issues of over 10,000 broken-down Serbian houses and locals in classical terrorist actions in dozens of Croatian cities and cities where there were no acts of war. Another important thing about pensioners from the region is the fact that the Serbian government has not made a decision to pay out money aid to pensioners from the region as well. According to the Social Security Institute in Serbia, about 150,000 pensioners from the region live, of which 59 000 from Croatia, 41 000 from BiH and about 25 000 from Slovenia, Macedonia and Montenegro. Last year, the government of Serbia paid four or five thousand dinars of money to facilitate pensioners to overcome the effects of the pandemic of the coronary virus. Only a small part of these 150,000 pensioners, who are related to and originating in the former Yugoslavia, received that financial aid because the users of the PIO Serbia Fund, therefore, have gained part of the job experience in Serbia. The vast majority of them have acquired a job internship in Croatia, BiH, Slovenia, Montenegro, Macedonia, a large majority of them have small pensions, these people feel bitter, angry, discriminated, because pensioners from the PIO Serbia Fund received 9,000 financial assistance last year, and they did not get it. Also, this year, the government is justifiably planning to give financial assistance to pensioners of 50 euros. I think it would be important, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, for the government to consider my initiative to make a decision to pay these pensioners back, not to be discriminated against by other pensioners. These are people who live in Serbia, who spend their small pensions in Serbia, who are savingly meeting all their obligations in Serbia and it would be fair and fair if they also got those 9,000 from last year and now announced six thousand this year. Also, pensioners from countries of the region and living in Serbia are bitter, dissatisfied that they do not have the right to pension cards and the right to vouchers. Pension cards are useful to the pensioners of the PIO Serbia Fund, as they are entitled to a 10% to 15% discount on food purchases, purchases of household chemistry and other supplies in large trade chains. I think it would be fair if pensioners from the region also got the right to those pension cards. Finally, pensioners from the region do not have the right to vouchers, as are pensioners of the PIO Serb Fund worth 5,000 dinars, issued by the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, and who use pensioners to go to spas or take vacations in some of the numerous catering facilities. I think pensioners living in Serbia who have achieved their job experience in Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia should also be entitled to vouchers. A particular problem is one category of Serbian citizens, it is 26,000 expelled Serbs who have refugee tickets. They, unfortunately, had no right to receive 100 euros in assistance received by all full-time citizens last year, and this year they have no right to 60 euros in financial assistance. Unemployed persons with refugee status have not been entitled to 60 euros. Banished Serbs with refugee records do not now have the right to three thousand dinars if they have been vaccinated. So, I think these are important things and I urge you, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, to see in the government with Prime Minister Brnabic that this injustice against pensioners and Serbs from the region is corrected, to correct the injustice against the 26 thousand expelled Serbs who have refugee status, i.e. have a refugee card. There is a refugee ticket issued by the Ministry of the Interior, as well as an I.D. and it is a valid document for these citizens, because they exercise all their rights with that document, fulfil all their obligations, and only when it comes to obtaining financial assistance, that refugee card is not valid. So, appeal to you and to the government to correct this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7682	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if before the search is concluded they want representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not exercised their right to speak? The word has Milija Miletic, three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7683	I thank Dr. Orlic. Dear fellow Minister, I, as a member of the SPP-USS parliamentary group, will support the bill because in 2014 I was together in this assembly when our Serbian President, Aleksandra Vukic, submitted an initiative to make a small savings, where pensioners were in some way helpful, a great help to us, our country, and now it is slowly returning to everyone through these pension increases. I think it was the right thing to do. It turned out it was necessary because the pensioners were always there for our country and for us when it was the hardest, they were building our country. As for everything else, I think that in the next period, we need to put an accent on working more on people's employment, working more on developing small-scale, southeast Serbia, undeveloped areas, and that tomorrow we have the opportunity to increase pensions, and we can only do that if we get into a situation to create new jobs. I will support all government proposals affecting the development of undeveloped areas, the development of agriculture, because it is the only way that our pensioners and all of us who are due tomorrow to welcome that pension, to have a safe pension and a safe future. Once again, as an MP and president of the USS, I will support the bill and that is what our country needs for Serbia and all of our pensioners. Thank you again and go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7684	Thank you. And finally, the United Pensioners' Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7685	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of this, I am starting to say that this parliament is probably one of the youngest in the region on average. Thanks to this mandate, we have received an extremely large number of young people as MPs, especially in the SNS. I would like today, given that it is not the two oldest MPs, Mrs Tishma, I do not see her, and Mr Đuro Peric, they are not there, otherwise they are in the 10th bank but, so I would like, if you would allow me, to take the right to be one of the oldest, here safely, by pension training, not by age, to thank all these many people, especially young people who spoke today. So many pensioners' recognitions for everything they've done for this country, including for them, so much respected for the pensioners. It was, believe me, it was very nice sitting here today and I feel so good in that atmosphere. I thank all these young people and all the others who have shown it. I think I'll be very sorry if it's not a big, huge number of pensioners today listened to the transfer of this assembly to hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-16-0.u7686	I thank the president of the PUPS parliamentary group for these words. To conclude in the same spirit, I thank the Minister and everyone who participated in today's debate. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATE OF SERBIA. You have received the motion for a decision taken by the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening my Rules of Procedure a single search on the Proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Does the Proposer's representative, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Lists not submitted for the word. On the basis of Article 98(4), I conclude a single search into the draft decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set Wednesday, 16 June 2021, starting at 18 hours and 33 minutes, as the day for voting on the agenda of the Fifth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), Rules of Procedure, the voting quorum exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 173 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. First – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act in general. I conclude the vote: two MPs, a total of 175 MPs, did not vote for – 173, for – 173,. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Two - Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly carried out a single search, before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia The National Assembly of its electoral authority is majoritying the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 176, not one MP voted, of a total of 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. As you've been informed, we'll continue our work next week. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly.
