ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9743	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall, and there are at least 84 MPs present and conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9744	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I will first here from this place and as an MP and as representative of the USS condemn the attacks of ROSU down on our innocent people, the people of Kosovo and Metohija, in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, where the force was used, where they heard the bursts, where a dozen of our citizens were injured, where several of them were badly injured, where our man, the young man, Srecko, was wounded, and it was right in the back, which means that something bad happened, which is that the Kosovo forces in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica used force, shot our innocent people. I will once again condemn the attacks from this place and give my support to our President Vukic, who, with all his strength, was with his people and in every place with his people, which is an example for everyone. A great support for our president, our commander-in-chief, to do best what is necessary for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. From this place, I would like to thank again for organising the 60 years of unclassified here in Belgrade. I would like to begin by thanking our President, President of the Assembly, Vice-President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, and especially our Minister Nikola Selakovic, who was the official host of this organisation. Our country, Serbia and Belgrade, once again hosted and showed that it can, and it is most important for all of us, because we have shown from there what it means to be a host, what it means to be a good host, and that in this place over 100 delegations of the 100 countries that have exchanged opinions with us, that a large number of bilateral agreements have been made regarding each part, in each segment, where we have certainly received a number of friends, new friends who remember what was once in 1961. Once again, I thank you for the organisation where our country Serbia has shown its true face, where we have really done the best. I think it's a big deal for our people, for our citizens of Serbia, because at that meeting, at that summit, the Military Equipment and Weapons Fair, where tactically and technically our organisation, our Serbia has shown what it has. Thank you once again to the President and to all those who have organized this gathering, because it has given a great boost to our country everywhere in the world. On Monday and Tuesday, we were the center of the world. I'd say a few things one more time since I'm in agriculture. So October 15th is the World Day of our women in the country. That day is tomorrow, but since we do not have a session tomorrow, they can inform all citizens of Serbia, all people and ask our government if there is a possibility of providing more resources than they are given for our mothers, that is, for pregnant women, that 50% of the greater separations are for women living in the country, because the woman in the country is the pillar of every house, every household? A woman in the country doesn't know when it's daytime, when it's nighttime because they work both in the field and in the house and everywhere, and that's why I think we here in the Assembly give maximum support through certain laws, and the government within the 2022 budget to further allocate funds for our women in the country and that they can have the same opportunities as women in the city. Once again, dear friends, dear Serbian citizens, I would like to congratulate from this place tomorrow, October 15th, World Women's Day in the Village. May it be health and happiness, let the children be born and that happiness follows us and, normally, and knowledge and strength. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9745	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9746	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, in June 2020 in Novi Pazar opened a Regional Innovation Startup Centre and, above all, by insisting on the mayor of Novi Pazar he started working and in a short time, a number of activities, showed that he could indeed be and should be and is a part of new ideas and opportunities for the economic development of this region. What this regional innovation center is dealing with is, first of all, through three basic branches. First, the development of business ideas, which is extremely important nowadays. So innovation, new business ideas. Then, office support, again important is education in the field of the application of information technologies. The regional innovation centre has imposed itself as a driver in the future for the development of the region's economy in the first months, thanks to its results. I must point out that this centre is run by really one group of very professional and dedicated people, that it is a great interest and that great activities are being carried out in it. However, an urgent need is to establish a science and technology park. Unfortunately, the town of Novi Pazar, which has 130 thousand inhabitants and our innovation centre, does not have full and complete financial support from the Ministry of Innovation and New Technology, which is run by Minister Popovic and I must say that there are 18 such centres in Serbia that are fully supported by this ministry. But what can worry even more is that no project of applications from the territory of the city of Novi Pazar through the programme, any programme of the Ministry of Innovation and Technological Development, has approved any dinar. On all of this, Minister Popovic met and he planned a visit, showed great interest and planned a visit to Novi Pazar and this innovation centre. He announced a visit to the end of October or early November and announced that the ministry would resolve this misunderstanding in the best way, that it had special hearing for this region and that it would provide money for its stable financing and more, the minister announced that the ministry's money would be formed and practically built new rooms, i.e. a brand-new innovation centre in Novi Pazar, and that this would be defined by around 80,000,000 dinars. With this introduction, I wanted to underline what importance and potential this institution can and must have for this region and remind the minister once again to be a guest of the innovation center in Novi Pazar and the city of Novi Pazar and to fulfill what was promised in the shortest period. I personally strongly respect the ministry's efforts and the commitment of Minister Popovic to give new business ideas, to modernise and accelerate the micro-economics, to give the basic and most significant impulses in the development of our economy. Sandzak is indeed abounding in young, potent people, who, above all, are skilled in information sciences and have, let me say, a talent for business and it would really be of great importance to these people to be the drivers of the economy of our entire country, and this region in which they have humiliated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9747	Thank you. The word is Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9748	In front of the parliamentary group, I would like to ask the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs about the creation of a new Safety and Health Act. The current Act on Safety and Health at Work has been in place since November 2005. Since then, many significant economic and social changes have occurred. For this reason, we welcome the initiative to adopt a new legal framework for safety and health at work. Changes seen in the social sphere have become particularly visible in the previous period marked by the Kovid 19 pandemic. This primarily refers to work from home, frequent use of alternative methods and communication, difficult planning and business, as well as financial difficulties and overall uncertainty. In light of modern technologies, it is speeded up and facilitated the transmission of information, recognized and accepted electronic communication and data storage. We believe that it is particularly important to consider the moment when this law is passed, and that is the time in which the whole society is under the great and long-lasting burden of the pandemic. I'm asking the Resort Ministry if the new law will recognize work from home and improve the arrangements for emergency interventions? Furthermore, we believe it is necessary to introduce more flexibility in the form of working engagement of professionals in the field of safety and health at work. Namely, persons for safety and health at work, which are the main legislators of law enforcement, are working under great pressure, resulting from the nature of work and objective working conditions, hence, further pressure in the form of compliance with the conditions of performance cannot contribute to the quality of work. Therefore, the second issue is about planning to raise the criteria for obtaining a legal person's license - which is why it is planned to raise the criteria for obtaining a legal person's work security and health license? The basis for this amendment is neither found in the European Union Directive on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of workers at work. We believe that in order to carry out the tasks of a person for safety and health at work in less risky activities, it should be possible for an employer to hire an adviser or an associate for safety and health at work who has a license without obligation to be employed in a legal person with a licence. Professionals would be able to engage in the form of complementary work or would establish entrepreneurial activity. It should also be taken into account that the professional examination, to which employers are bound, is passed before the Commission of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. The commission is the only one for the whole country, so there is a limit in the number of people who can access exams eventually. The question arises – how long will all employers who belong to that category be able to pass a professional exam and will they be in violation for which a fine of a million and a half to two million dinars is prescribed? At the very end, I ask if the new law will include the foreign employer's institution. They're getting more and more on the market. It is therefore necessary to define their obligations and responsibilities, given the specificity that they are based in another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9749	Thank you. The word has the vice-president Stefan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9750	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of Serbian citizens living in a poorly-inhabited mountain-mounted and predominantly border and border areas of Serbia, for the first time in July 13th, I asked the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Agriculture whether it was feasible for our country to form new so-called strategic and security key areas. The rural municipalities and so these citizens are given the opportunity to decide to a greater extent on their own needs and survival and the development of their local communities? It is my responsibility from the Ministry of Agriculture that according to the current texts of the Law on Territorial Organisation and the Law on Local Self-Government of New Municipalitys can be established on the territory of which less than 10,000 inhabitants live when special economic, geographical or historical reasons exist. The ministry announced an initiative to amend and supplement the two existing laws, as well as the possibility of launching an initiative to pass a specific village law. Since the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government on the direct part of my question whether and on the basis of existing legal solutions and without amending the Law on Territorial Organization may enter into the process of establishing new municipalities, it is necessary for the education of new municipalities to establish a proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Territorial Organisation. On September 9th, I asked for an explanation, as Article 11(3). The Law on Territorial Organization, as well as Article 17(2) and Article 18(4). The law on local self-government suggests exactly the opposite. Now I have been given an explanation that the amendments and amendments to the laws are not limiting the conditions for the initiators to launch an initiative to set up new municipalities, but that any changes to the law follow after all the procedures are met, and only in the end is the establishment, abolition or change of the territory of the municipality being passed. I am also pleased with the fact that a new explanation from this ministry is on the trail of my claim from my first parliamentary question. On September 9th, I asked the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government for an additional answer to the next question. According to the Law on Territorial Organisation in Serbia, 30 local self-governments have the status of the city, and the city on its territory can form special city municipalities. Why are the seats so-called. urban municipalities are normally established in urban areas, not, say, larger villages, which also belong to the territory of these cities? It encourages the further explanation that came from this ministry and my additional question. The Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, in fact, recalls that the education of the city's municipalities is of a university character and is carried out in accordance with the procedure that the city itself has laid down in its statutes, and the law leaves the possibility for city halls to be established in larger villages as well. I think that, distinguished fellow MPs, all of us, and especially you who come from smaller environments and less populated areas of our Serbia, are aware that unless the most urgent creation of the general-social and general-civil front for the rescue of the Bauk village will devastate many parts of Serbia. So my additional question today has been addressed to the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and to the Ministry – have some initiatives to form new municipalities and, if so, from which existing municipalities have come and as long as they have arrived in the procedure, when it comes to some old initiatives that this ministry inherited from its predecessors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9751	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9752	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, surely today the central issue is national and state interests, protecting Serbs living in the KIM area, the responsible and serious attitude of the state and government towards this issue, as well as extremely irresponsible, I would say, the EU's, NATO's, but also KFOR's. Yesterday's events in the north of KiM, when the armed forces of ROSU stormed into northern Mitrovica and Zvecan, chasing naked Serb armored vehicles, throwing tear gas and gas bombs, are a direct blow to all efforts by Serbia and the Serbs with KIM to resolve issues in dialogue, to reach a compromise and fair solution that will be acceptable to both sides. Yesterday, they shot at the back of unarmed Serbs, all under reason to enforce the law and fight smuggling and crime. Since when and where has this been implemented today in the 21st century in Europe and the world by cannon law, i.e. armored vehicles and rifles? Yesterday, a dozen Serbs were badly injured, and Srecko Sofronijević was badly wounded and shot from behind and who received a severe gunshot wound and wound up in the hospital. Last night, according to some unofficial information, tear gas that the members of Rosu threw into her yard, Verica Djelic of Zvecan passed away. It is clear to all that such violence has nothing to do with law enforcement, although Pristina officials thus explain yesterday's attack on Serbs. Last night's images from Mitrovica, pictures from Zvecan have been visited by the saints and we do not know what legal arguments Pristina today can explain to the world yesterday's violence in the area of the north of KiM. Yesterday, the president of the Republic went urgently to Raska where he spoke to Serbs with KIM, saying Serbia's stance is clear and firm. Serbia will defend its people in KIM space. Yesterday, respected colleagues, in this room, we condemned the outrageous violence against Serbs who are apparently the most aggressive political marketing that the 21st century remembers. We believe that this is a responsible and serious relationship and that such a responsible and serious attitude is exactly what citizens expect from us, their representatives. Kurti obviously thinks killing Serbs will win local elections or make him think so. His paranoid behavior and anxiety are obvious, he no longer chooses the means, the turn came, unfortunately, the weapon. The fact that Kurti and Osmani want to force their own state, not caring for any international acts, at least for UN Security Council Resolution 1244, doesn't surprise us. The fact that Resolution 1244 is concerned, the Brussels Agreement is being followed by those who, on behalf of the international community, need to keep peace in the KIM area. Yesterday we learn that this operation, the unusual violence of ROSU, has been notified to those very representatives. In particular, it concerns NATO force representatives at the KIM to justify this ROSU operation, hence violence against Serbs, for the sake of a fabricated law enforcement. This shameful attack on the life and freedom of the Serbian people in our southern province has not yet been reported by the EU special envoy for the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, Mr Miroslav Lajcak. A UN Security Council meeting is scheduled for tomorrow on the subject of the latest developments in KIM space. The SPS parliamentary group provides unequivocal support to our state leadership and the president of the state who said yesterday that we would all be able to keep peace together, but that we would also defend our people at KIM if they attacked us. We support our people in KIM and believe in their power, which they have shown countless times before. Therefore, in light of yesterday's act of unremembered violence against our people, I would like to appeal to the government of the Republic of Serbia to officially request an EU response that is the mediator in the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina and its representative, Miroslav Lajcak, who is still silent on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9753	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is Dragoljub Ackovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9754	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to extend my support to our President, Alexander Vukic, in the fact that, as far as possible, the situation in Kosovo calms down and looks at how statesmen can see and not make a move that can cost us dearly. A game played by Kosovo politicians due to the elections could probably cause major problems at the moment, but I trust the president. It's not gonna happen. Serbs in Kosovo will endure all efforts, and besides Serbs in that same Kosovo, a large number of Roma are living and I want to give them support to protect themselves and to keep track of what they are doing and how they are doing, because since 1981, and this has had something to do with my question, a sudden eviction of members of that people from Kosovo has begun, and according to my data, at least 30,000 Roma have been evicted to Western European countries, and a number of Roma have been evicted to Montenegro and Serbia. What I want to particularly apostrophe is that tens of thousands of Roma in Europe live without citizenship, without birth certificates, without ID cards, passports and other documents and are often denied fundamental rights, such as the right to education, health care, social assistance and the right to vote. I have consulted on this issue with a number of literature, but above all with individuals dealing with this issue, and I want to thank the Commissioner for the refugees of Serbia and especially Mr Cucic, who has offered me some information that is very important to me. In fact, he said that there are people from Kosovo who have such a problem and that they should, of course, be resolved. I personally became convinced that such a problem existed a few days ago when two Roma from Italy came to me and asked me if I wanted to be their best man and marry them. I said - I will, of course, no problem, but just to get the documents out in India. They went to India, and they couldn't get documents like I.D., because without ID, they couldn't get married. I asked them how many years you haven't had the documents, and the girl said that 30 years, how many there are, there's not one single document right now, and that her three sisters also don't have everything living in Rome. I'm asking how they live without documents. He says the police don't normally touch us, but it's a very difficult problem. I faced a similar problem when I spoke to people from Denmark and the Netherlands who also pointed out that many Roma do not have any documents and they are complete apatrides. Otherwise, I note that there are many Roma in Europe who are apatrides. No state considers them to be its citizens and is often denied fundamental social rights and freedom of movement. This problem exists in many European countries but, researchers say, is particularly acute in the Western Balkan countries, which I have confirmed, because I have received a number of information about it. This has been there for several years and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has had programmes on the Western Balkans territory, numerous research has been done but also practical work on obtaining documents such as ID cards, health books and other identification papers. How do you solve that? By helping these people get documents and their right to life at this point, if that's what you can say. Many Roma don't have a birth certificate so they'll have to turn around here, in the country they come to, but how can they come if they don't have any documents? That's one of the big problems. My question is exactly what can the state of Serbia do for members of its people who are distracted, for reasons I have talked about, across Europe and the whole world? I estimate that such people have several thousand and I would be very happy if the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior, because I don't know who that appeal should be referred to, and I suggest at this point, that they do something to solve this very difficult problem for the members of the Roma people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9755	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. We are moving on to a joint single search on the motions of acts from points. From the 2nd to the 5th agenda. According to Articles 90, paragraphs 1 and 239 of Article 2. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Nebojsa Peric, President of the Competition Protection Commission, Dejan Popovic, President of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Dusko Pejović, President of the Council of the Dri, Pavle Petrovic, President of the Fiscal Council, Daniela Bokan, Miroslav Đosic, Siniša Milosevic and Cedomir Radojčić, members of the Competition Protection Council, Nikola Altiparmakov and Bojan Dimitrijevic, members of the Fiscal Council, Goran Petkovic, member of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia, Nevenka Bojanić, Ljiljana Dimitrijevic and Marijana Simović, members of the Council of the DRI and Milan Milinković, Secretary of the DRI. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint single search on: Report on the Commission's work on competition protection for 2020, the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2020, the report on the work of the Energy Agency for 2020 and the report on the work of the State Audit Institute for 2020. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is Nebojsa Peric, president of the Competition Protection Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9756	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to begin by saying that it is an honor that today in front of the Competition Protection Commission, as an important state organisation, I can present the results of its work during 2020, which represent a continuity in carrying out the Commission's most significant activities in the area of competition protection entrusted to the Commission. I would also point out that this is the first full year of work of the current Commission's Competition Protection Council. Certainly, the year behind us, and also related to the Commission's activities, marked the pandemic caused by Kovid 19, which was necessary to enable the Commission to carry out all the activities uninterrupted, and to ensure safe work for the employees and, of course, the pandemic to one extent also reflected the Commission's revenues which, as you could see, were about 10% lower than planned, but the expenditures were also drastically lower. They were about 30% lower than planned. As you could see, however, the Commission has been doing a positive financial transaction, and has also achieved a surplus of revenue over expenditures, of which 70% and slightly over 100 million dinars have been paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What I would like to point out is that certainly this funding is more than good, which allows not only operational independence in the Commission's work, but it has proved that, in such emergency circumstances, the Commission was able to function and work uninterruptedly. When it comes to reviewing the most important activities that the Commission has carried out during 2020, these are certainly procedures to determine the existence of a breach of competition, individual exceptions to restrictive agreements, concentration testing procedures, implementation of sectoral analyses on the state of competition or, in the narrow sense, the conditions of competition over individual markets, the giving of views from the work of its competences, participation in the negotiating team related to Chapter 8, participation in domestic and international projects and activities related to competition protection policy. I will try to present to you all of these most significant activities in this short time period, in a concise and structured way, without burying you with a bunch of statistical data, but still with the indication of certain data that practically shows that all of what we have stated in the elections and where we have seen the possibility of improving the work of the Commission, this has been achieved. In any case, one of the most important segments, if not most important in the Commission's work, are procedures to determine the existence of injury to competition. As you could see, the Commission carried out a total of 22 proceedings during the reporting period, i.e. 22 cases, of which ended seven proceedings, at the same time launched new eight procedures and seven to determine the existence of restrictive agreements and one to abuse a dominant position. What I would particularly like to point out is that the Commission has carried out a total of 18 unannounced insights in five procedures and has indeed proved to be one of the most effective means of obtaining evidence. When we look at all these indicators, which is the number of procedures initiated over one year and the number of procedures completed, and also the number of unannounced, unannounced insights, which I could say also the seriousness and severity of the procedures initiated, then we can say that in 2020 it was one of the most productive in the work of the Commission, especially in this sector. This is exactly what we said during the elections that in the future, the greatest focus in the Commission's work will be on injury to competition and, above all, the detection of the most serious forms of injury to competition, such as cartels or abuse of dominant position, because I believe that we are both human, but also technically sufficiently qualified and mature enough to be able to engage and deal with those areas and those markets that have not been dealt with by the Commission so far. The second segment of the Commission's work within that sector relates to individual exceptions to restrictive prohibition agreements. Therefore, these are agreements which, by their nature, would be prohibited, i.e. restrictive, but if the positive effects weigh over negative and when the conditions are met, such agreements may be exempted from the prohibition for a certain period of time. As you could see, during 2020, the Commission acted in a total of 37 such cases, 31 of which ended with the adoption of solutions exempting such agreements, and six proceedings were suspended because the agreements delivered were not restrictive. Exactly, here, and on this case, we can say that everything that we have previously pointed out is exactly what the Commission's role is, one of the basics, and that is not to protect competitors on the market from one another, but to the Commission itself to protect competition on the market. The next important segment and important in the Commission's work are the concentration testing procedures. So it's about those procedures where certain changes occur, whether it's about company ownership control, status or other changes, and when they're met by the law, financial thresholds. In that case, there is an obligation for the company to obtain agreement from the Commission on such a transaction. Total of such submitted concentration reports in 2020 were 134. Given the, I say, these extraordinary circumstances, we can say that this is more than a good number, which is a good result, and especially given that this is the segment from which practically the commission is financed most. Another important segment in the Commission's work on the protection of competition that we have seen to improve is the implementation of sectoral analyses, the state of competition in certain markets or in a narrow sense and the implementation of certain analyses of the conditions of competition. Not only because it was a recommendation from the European Commission that the Commission in its work rely more on its own analyses, but also because it has indeed proven from practice that such analyses are a good basis for certain lawyers and often for the launch of the procedures themselves. As you could see during 2020, the commission conducted a total of four sectoral analyses and launched two more. Of course, well-implemented sectoral analyses also allow for procedures to be launched, and thus to be completed faster and, if you want, to be more efficient in ending such procedures. What I would also like to point out is that certainly the role of the commission is not only in punishing market participants, i.e. expressing measures to protect competition, but that prevention is really more important than self-reactive and in this sense, and I say specifically because we also noticed that still one number of participants in the market injury makes it necessary to work on an additional education of market participants, and precisely in the future work of the commission will also be on it. Finally, I would like to thank you once again, given all of the above, for the opportunity to present the results of the Commission's work on the protection of competition in 2020, as well as the first full year of work of the current Commission's Competition Protection Council, despite the existence of a pandemic with improved measurable indicators of Commission performance in certain activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9757	Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the motionors want a word? Please report to the system. The word is made by Pavle Petrovic, president of the Fiscal Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9758	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Members, you have before you a detailed report from the Fiscal Council for 2020. Among other things, you can see here that during that year we have produced 12 documents containing analyses and recommendations related to fiscal reform and fiscal policy, budget assessment, rebalancing. So in this presentation, I'm just going to do some basic points within the time I have to make. The fiscal council, following the outbreak of the health crisis, responded immediately with the recommendation as early as March of the month, that in such a situation it is necessary to address primarily the problem of the health crisis and then the economic crisis resulting from this health crisis, and that it is justified to go into budget rebalance and significantly increase deficits and borrowing. The government basically reacted quickly to the crisis and the economic aid package, which it designed, proposed by the Assembly, later adopted, was basically good and prevented a significant drop in employment during 2020. A particularly good reaction was immediately in April 2020, so the reaction was on time and it achieved its effects. What the next package was during the summer of 2020 could have been more focused, i.e. At that time, there was enough information about who was in the economy, I am talking about helping the economy, threatened, and that these funds are being directed to those who needed them, not to everyone, so to those who didn't need them. Unfortunately, such a practice continued to rebalance in April 2021, and that is what the Fiscal Council has shown as unwarranted. The second measure we did not agree with the government is to divide 100 euros to all citizens and to all citizens of Serbia by age. That measure is now, a similar measure continues in this year. This is where I'd like to make one general position of the Fiscal Council to explain it. So the fiscal council is to give funds to citizens, but to those citizens who really need it. For that it is necessary to make an analysis of what they are, and get records, endangered citizens, i.e. to form, what is said in a colloquial way – social maps, and therefore to provide assistance. In the case of, for example, 100 euros in aid, which cost 600m euros in the budget, that these social maps were the same goal. Helping those who need it and those who are really poor would be only a third, about 200m euros. So our general view is that we need to help the citizens in the crisis, under one. Two, you need to help those who need help. Under three, it's necessary to have records and social cards. Unfortunately, three years ago, Minister Djordjevic announced that it would be done in a year and we do not have them today. The next thing for 2020, which the Fiscal Council considers to be an extremely positive public investment. In fact, public investments in 2020, despite the crisis, both the health crisis and the economic crisis, were beyond the plan, above what the budget envisaged until the crisis was even known to be coming, and they were also greater compared to the year 2019 when the crisis was not there. The fiscal council has long advocated increasing public investment in infrastructure, and this is happening now because this is the basic lever that the government and the state can foster economic growth, and the need for these infrastructure and healthcare routes, investment in them, are necessary. In particular, significant investments in health care, which is also good, and with this increased investments in 2020, which are now continuing, the situation with regard to health equipment is starting to improve significantly and if previously significantly and lagging behind. Another big topic I would like to draw attention to is the issue of budget transparency, and I think this team is more important than the topic that is present here and the DRI, and I think that through joint action, the joint functioning of the Fiscal Council and this institution, of course, with the help of you MPs, or if you approve it, we could significantly improve the transparency of the budget. Public expenditure transparency decreased during 2020. They've become less transparent. It was justified for that first rebalancing when it responded immediately to the crisis, but later on, I see no excuse. The illustrations of this are large budget loans, about 150m euros, where the budget is not written to who it goes to. The rest is on our own, we're guessing it might be ER Serbia. Then, it is an example of the Public Investment Office about 100m euros, which has also not been announced where it is going. And there are a few other items that we talked about in our reports. To this end of the show, transparency is also the final account of the budget. In fact, the legal obligation of the government and the Assembly is to adopt the final budget account. Unfortunately, this was not until 2019, and then in 2019, the Fiscal Council welcomed the adoption of the final budget account for 2008 and years earlier, and then the final accounts for 2019 was adopted in 2020. By law, the Fiscal Council should give an opinion on the Final Budget Account. We gave it last year in December. So, the final score for 2019, and now I'd like to put out some positive things that we've put out there and some things that might improve, and I need to improve the transparency of that Final Account, i.e. to see exactly what money was spent on. One big item that's not transparent is punishment and foam. So, we and the final account don't see the basis for which the state paid the fines and the penalty payments. I would draw attention to the MPs that this item has increased significantly in the last three, four years and is becoming a very important item and there is indications that this year too will be a significant item. So, for one transparency, for both MPs and the public, it would be necessary to know what that money went to. Another area where transparency should, in our opinion, improve subsidies for foreign direct investment. Also, there is no list of companies with exact amounts of these investments in the final account. So we think it's something we should do. Third, budget loans, I've already talked about it, and the amount of these budget loans is getting bigger, and it still doesn't know who they're going to. So it would be necessary to have the correct list, that MPs, and then the public has the correct list of enterprises and amount to where these budget loans went and went. Of course, I'd have something else to report on the midterm. The fiscal council also assessed the fiscal strategy, and in one sentence, it is important, this fiscal strategy of the government for the next three years, according to the law, the Fiscal Council assesses this, but now this fiscal strategy and last year's, and this new one will be important so important that it provides for the return of a high fiscal deficit to a balance, or a low fiscal deficit, and to reverse the growing debt trend relative to the income of the entire country to a downward trend. So much for now. Of course, there are associates and I here to answer your questions. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9759	Thank you. I'd like the honourable representatives of the Proposer to press that big button to see them in the system. The word is by MP Dejan Popovic, president of the Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9760	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my honor to present in this House an annual report by the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia. I will seek to make the basis of this report submitted to the National Assembly for consideration within the foreseen time limit. In accordance with the provisions of the Energy Act in accordance with the established procedure and earlier years, the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia consists of an annual report adopted by the Council of the Agency and submitted to the National Assembly for consideration. According to the structure and content, the report meets the recommendations of the Council of the European Energy Regulator. In addition to the report on work and financial operations, this document contains a report on the state of the state of the Republic of Serbia's energy sector within the Agency's competence and, as I said last time, I think it is the most comprehensive energy report in our country annually. As for this report, the security of electricity supply, natural gas and oil derivatives during 2020 was satisfactory, which is of particular importance in the pandemic conditions. Electricity consumption in 2020 was at the level of 2019. Household consumption increased by 2.8% and high voltage customers by 0.6%, while industry consumption in medium voltage customers was reduced by 0.4% and at low voltage by 5.8%. This is probably the result of the pandemic. As you know in emergency conditions and later on, a lot of these smaller companies have gone to work from home, thus increasing consumption by house and reduced consumption by these companies. The total electricity production was more than 2% compared to 2019, with coal thermoelectric production increased by 5% and hydroelectric power plants connected to the transmission system production was lower by 4.7%, due to adverse hydrological conditions. The wind power plants connected to the transmission system produced 9%, and the power plants connected to the distribution system produced 13.2% more wind power. In 2020, electricity exports increased by 264 gigawatt hours and increased by more than imports. Natural gas consumption increased by 6.7% in 2020 compared to 2019 and the highest in households by 18.8% in natural gas consumption, suggesting that gas is a competitive energy. Out of the total volume of free market sales, 48.6% of electricity was sold in 2020, slightly lower, as I said earlier, increased household consumption and 82.9% of natural gas, while in 2019 it was 84.1%. Households in a measurable number, 148 measured places, used the right to choose suppliers and buy on the free market and were mostly supplied at regulated prices. The energy development strategy for the period until 2025, as you know, is projected to increase electricity consumption by 1% per year. During that period, this consumption should be covered by the extension of the age of existing power plants. Construction is the third block of TE Kostolac B, which is the most significant project that was started with realisation, as well as the construction of TE Toplana Pančevo. In 2020, there were no connections of new wind parks, so at the end of the year the total wind park power was 373 megawatts, while 328 small hydropower plants of 212 megawatts were connected to the distribution network by the end of 2020. In 2020, produced electricity from renewable sources connected to a portable distribution system, which was very important at 10,872 gigawatt hours, which is 32.1% of gross final electricity consumption in Serbia, which is of great importance, because when compared to Europe, we are slowly approaching Europe, because in total throughout 2020, at the level of Europe, 28 countries, the share of renewables in gross final electricity consumption was about 34%, while there are many EU Member States that have a significantly smaller share of renewable sources in their gross final consumption. I would now point out that last year we brought in the preliminary certification of GAS Trans as an independent transport system operator and after obtaining the opinion of the Energy Community Secretariat, we certified GAS Trans as an independent transport system operator. During 2020, this interconnective pipeline was largely completed, linked to the transport system in Bulgaria and the transport system Transport GAS in Serbia. The first quantities of gas for Serbia's market are from Bulgaria's direction this year, early 2021. This gas interconnection, as I stressed last year when considering the annual report here in the 2019 Assembly, has been the most significant energy project done in our country for the last 30 years, which is the current situation, how important this project is, the current state of the energy market at European level, says how much this pipeline contributes to Serbia's energy security. The low degree of household gas is still high. It is only positive for about 10% of the population, has the possibility of joining the city network and is connected to the city network. However, it is positive that, as we can see, distribution networks are spreading and Serbia is going seriously into gas. Natural gas prices for public supply and access prices for natural gas distribution during 2020 have not been changed. For the sustainable development of the energy system, an adequate long-term policy of regulated prices is very important, predictable for customers and investors. The unambiguous precondition for changes in regulated electricity prices for households is an increase in the number of protected socially endangered customers, as during 2020, the number of protected customers who used the right to reduce their accounts was only 72,000, and the number of users who could use this right is estimated to be more than 300,000. The Council of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia insists on rationalising energy companies' business and recognising only eligible costs when giving consent to regulated prices. One of the biggest costs is high electricity losses in the distribution network, in 2020 they increased and lost in the distribution network during 2020 at an average of 11.95% of electricity. More intensive investment in an electro-distributive network is needed, taking over measuring devices, water connection and efficient replacement of measuring devices. Serbia's electricity network continues its action in 2020 to develop the system and strengthen cross-border capacity and participation in co-ordinated cross-border capacity actions in the organised market. Our stock exchange, as you know, has already been liquid in the past year, during 2020, the volume of trade has increased by 11%. In 2020, indicators for unplanned discontinuations of treatment delivery are slightly lower in the transmission distribution system compared to 2020. As for the distribution, they are still worse than the European average. I would now just briefly what the Agency did in some numbers during 2020 in the field of licensing of objects. Of the 81 applications, we've granted 68 licenses. In the area of price regulation, the Agency's Council amended in December 2020 the methodologies which, in accordance with the law, determine the education of regulated prices of energy subjects, and the methodology for determining the price of access to the electricity transmission system, the methodology for determining the price of access to the electricity distribution system and the methodology for determining the prices of guarantee supplies. On 23 January, the Council made a decision on the price of system assistant services for secondary and therapeutic regulation. On 26 November 2020, the Council adopted the Report on the need to regulate the price of reserve power leases for system services. Not to be obliged, that there is room for questions, in November 2020, the Agency's Council agrees on the application of the following rules, cross-border capacity schedules at the Serbian-Hungarian, Serbian-Romanian, Serbian-Bulgarian, Serbian-Croatian border, on the border of Serbia and BiH, the Serbian-Macedonian, the Serbian-Montenegro border. We adopted all the rules on the operation of the transmission system, the investment plan and the transmission system, the plan for the development of transport systems and not to list all the plans submitted for the development of investment of our businesses on all networks. A total of 356 complaints were lodged to the Agency during 2020, 230 complaints were settled by the Agency in administrative proceedings as entrusted transactions, as the Agency decided as a trusted second-degree business by appeal of accession, and 126 complaints had the character of various complaints by natural and legal persons or a request for an opinion in the application of a failure from the Authority's jurisdiction. Of other international activities, they were reduced and mainly treated and conducted through an online conference, because, as you know, they couldn't travel. So much for what we did last year. As regards the Agency's Financial Report on Business, as you can see, the Agency has achieved from its revenue, from the planned 223.357,000 achieved 220,739,000, which is slightly less. It's mostly less due to the reduction in revenues from licences, which I talked about at the last adoption of the report, because we have less and less income from licences, so we need to ensure the independent business of the Agency only mainly from the revenue from the regulatory fee. As for the expenditure, they were lower than planned significantly. Understandably, we practically didn't have travel expenses, because we couldn't even travel to all those international conferences, they were held online. Of the planned expenditures, of 223.357, we have achieved the expenditures of 208 million. In particular, I would point out that we are very proud that the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia during 2020, in terms of the pandemic, even the state of emergency, organised the work so that it fully worked and that no subject was late in the first or second degree because of the Agency. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9761	Thank you. Dr Dusko Pejovic, president of the Council of the State Auditing Institution, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9762	The Honorable President-in-Office of the National Assembly, it is my privilege and pleasure to present a report on the work of the institution carried out under special conditions in front of the DRI and 336 employees on this day in 2020. We gave you the report in time, according to the structure and content that is common. Let us first say that we have implemented, compiled, published and presented 254 audit reports on all sectors and by all types of audit, which is more than 241 reports in previous 2019. The total of entities since 2020 has been 270, which is 251, more by 7.6% compared to 2019. As regards the evaluations expressed, i.e. the statement given on the financial reports of the audit entities, in 2020 we had 39 positive assessment reports, 107 reserve-rated reports and four negative reports. When compared with previous 2019 and 2018, the trend of increasing positive reports or positive assessment reports was observed, while there was no reduction in the reserve report and negative reports, while the abstentions of reports were not observed in 2020. At the same time, we also carried out 17 response reports, namely 17 audits, where we found that there was a breach of the obligation of good business. There was no severe form of this disturbance in 2020. As regards the overall errors and irregularities identified for 2020 in the audits carried out and those entities, we have three categories of errors collected and irregularities. The first concerns, the overall errors we have identified in the preparatory actions and the drawing up of financial reports. This was found to be 56.57 billion dinars, compared to the previous year in 2019, when 163.2 was significantly reduced. As for financial reports, errors were seen in the amount of 376 billion dinars, compared to the previous one when the 441 reduction was made, but still at a very high level, which are errors relating to financial recording, on a more, on a double, on a less, incorrect basis, on the wrong economic, organisational and other grounds. As regards irregularities, i.e. compliance with business in 2020, 130 billion dinars of these irregularities were identified, which mainly relates exclusively to public procurement. Public procurement irregularities are extremely high and are 129 billion in this amount and three entities account for 97%. As for other deviations through incomes, expenditures, liabilities, capital, balance sheet items, etc., in the case of your questions that I would not now be burdening you with amounts, I have detailedly prepared these elements. The impact of the established audits since 2020, 376 billion, so that is 370, that is the effect of the errors found and it is, I have noted, smaller by 64.9 billion in 2019. Furthermore, as regards the financial management of the control or the so-called FUKA abbreviations, the situation is about the same as in the previous period, we have significant deviations over internal acts not adopted non-actions etc. And as for internal audits, also, 43% of the subjects have an internal audit, and 57% has an internal act, and they have not appointed an internal auditor, and 54 has neither an internal act nor an appointment. When errors in income and income are compared, expenditures and expenditures then it is obvious that the errors in 2020 are indeed less and in total relative amounts 0.72% are income and income errors, and 2.02% were in 2019. In order to have an idea of these amounts to point out that in 2020, we totalled three trillions and 133 billion that consisted of two trillions and 964 billion from the budget, 167 billion and a half billion public enterprises and 1,08 billion revenues relating to political parties. As far as expenditure and expenditure itself is concerned, we have reviewed three trillions of 0.73 billion, and they are the same in this budget structure, from businesses and political parties, and we have also identified a reduction in overall irregularities, but a rise in errors in financial amounts. Furthermore, to point out that public debt is expressed in amounts published by the Republic Statistics Institute on 31 December 2019, 52.93%, 31 December 2018, 54.5% and 31 December 2020, 58.2%. In the follow-up, we have published 13 audit reports in 2020, and in 2021 we carry out, is in progress or is in the final 14 reports. We gave a total of 2155, in three priorities, first to 90 days of execution, second to one year and third to three years. It was observed at the first priority where it is best to measure the implementation of these first recommendations, in 2020 91.38% of the implementation of the recommendations, in 2019 it was 88.16% and in 2018 87.79%. We have drawn attention to the rules which have not been adopted or which have not been settled, that is to say, issues which are not regulated under the existing rules or which do not comply with certain rules on the same issue and which is why the Budgetary Accounting Regulation has been amended. We have given an initiative or a proposal for recommendations to amend certain legal rules and sublegal acts. At the same time, we have also filed 135 reports, of which 103 based on violations for 122 persons, 24 for economic crime for 152 persons, eight criminal charges for eight persons and we have sent 26 information to the competent authorities. The effects established in 2020 are 3.6 times the effects in 2019. They are 602 million in 2020 compared to 169 million in 2019, and these are only effects from financial reports relating to revenue increases or expenditure cuts. As far as the council is concerned, he has carried out all activities from his authority, made decisions, financial plans, work programme and so on, considered objections to the report proposal and followed sector activities according to the existing schedule. As far as co-operation was concerned, it was indeed consistent with the conditions in which all this was done, we had the greatest co-operation with the Committee, with our competent committee, of course in other institutions. In case of a question, we're ready for all the answers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9763	Thank you. The word is held by the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the Council, as proposing a conclusion on the adoption of a report submitted by the Competition Protection Commission and the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. I can say that I am only sorry that we did not have the Competition Protection Commission in the period when the privatisation of the Republic was, when social enterprises were privatised, social capital on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because today our situation in the general area would be far more favourable than it is at this point. I think we'd have a much better and only competition and a better offer in all areas of economic life. However, I do not think it was by chance that privatisation was carried out precisely in the same period when there was no commission to supervise, and I would just like to remind myself of that famous privatisation of "C Market", i.e. that Miskovic initially came from bankruptcy to a huge social property, as he held the property, as he blackmailed all economic operators in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, established an absolute monopoly position until 2011. By misusing this absolute monopoly position, he accumulated all the business operators' activity, whether selling goods, whether providing services in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, profits were directed exclusively towards themselves, bringing all other market participants into an unequal position, and destroying their capital, dragging them into debt slavery to business banks because of their irresponsible way of doing business. But that's what I'm saying now, the times behind us and we can't make it right, I can only say that it's a shame that day and day when I see the methodologies that one of the biggest years was when direct foreign investment was made in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during the former regime was in 2011, when there were reportedly direct foreign investments of 2.253,000,000 euros. We all know that there were no foreign direct investments, but that it was that Delta Company, Miroslav Miskovic sold "Ces Mekon" and "C market" for over a billion euros. Now, it's really top-notch when someone defends it as a direct foreign investment, especially when I don't see that there's been sold some factory that needs to be further developed, to expand its capacities, to increase the number of employees, to increase the competitiveness of the Serbian economy, but to say, a trading house that has provided certain commercial activity. Whoever came at that moment would continue to do the same job with the same twist, because trade as a service is something that cannot be multipled, because the amount of money and consummation on a particular market, as well as on any other market, is limited. In this case, there's nothing you can do about it. But, well, the former regime accepts it as a great strategic advantage, as a great result, and that's their thing now, so let the whales and Gilas and Tadic and Solak and everyone else, we'll get back to it a little bit later. I also think, perhaps the most interesting moment is to discuss the Energy Agency's report. A few days ago, our public is quite, to say, both upset and burdened with a situation that is related to energy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Our population is burdened with a few things. The first thing is whether there will be enough electricity, which is completely understandable at this point. Electric energy is a civilizational fluid of the 20th century, we live in the 21st century, and it would be very embarrassing if we didn't have enough. Another thing, will he stay at the same price for our fellow citizens? Furthermore, our citizens are also interested in whether they will have a high-quality remote heating service, also whether the prices of district heating will be changed, or whether there will be enough gas, because the largest number of our energy plants, or the heat of the Republic of Serbia, are using gas as energy for all of that. Of course, there's still those concerns that are related to motor fuels, congregations, because energy prices are somehow always causally linked. You can't have to collect electricity without being bought up by oil derivatives. It can't happen that it collects your gas, yet it doesn't buy you oil derivatives and eventually electricity. It's always connected, because energy is energy. Energy is something that drives today's civilization and that's acceptable. The main concern for businessmen is whether the energy prices will reflect the prices of re-comparation and in the extreme case for the prices of their products and the prices of services they provide, and whether the politicians will again worry whether the energy prices we have on the market today and in the environment and in Europe will reflect on the level of investments that the Republic of Serbia has, whether these investments, or the physical scale of these planned investments, will be made with those resources that we have planned under the Budget Law. It's all some related stuff. We cannot discuss this without taking into account today's energy situation and everything that preceded, Mr Popovic, today's situation, because just a few months ago, we had a terrible campaign on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in the public, to literally brutally, without any economic justification to shut down some of our energy capacity. Now I'm asking just one question, if we had turned them off, would our citizens have the privilege of still having the cheapest electricity in Europe? If we had shut them down, would our economy have the privilege of having enough electricity on the market? These are the questions that are being asked. I'm saying you wouldn't. I claim that there is no place for politics in this area, there is no right to cheap political points, there is no right for anyone to destroy our energy sector and we have no right to give up our energy capacities so quickly, until we do a serious analysis and make an even more serious strategy for energy sources in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and gradually increase the energy produced from renewable sources, not overnight. Those who hit our pucks today have fallen their thermopower plants, today include their nuclear power plants, today they're fighting to get to a ton of coal to secure their citizens and their energy businesses. It seems to me that they've come to terms with it very easily, and every time you have such tendencies, we need to be aware that there's always some economic interest. I understand the economic interest of the equipment manufacturer for renewable electricity sources. Their economic interest is to show that everything needs to be extinguished because it's not a renewable source to buy equipment from them. I understand even these things that were written by the car's technical checkup. Some, I guess, were among them, that's just an example, that the more spare parts are purchased or new cars are bought, but that's another topic. This is just an example of how some of the topics that have been present for decades between us suddenly become very interesting, very visible at some point, as was the story of the air pollution of our capital, Belgrade, such as some other cities. Well, they were polluted 20 and 30 years ago. I think Belgrade was the most polluted in 2001 or 2002, in winter, nobody talks about it. Now some other trends are at stake. And then we get to the point where we can't take what might seem nice and tempting to us at some point. I am very pleased that our Energy Agency has acted very responsibly here, and that it has also been able to maintain on the market what is vital for the Republic of Serbia and that we have enough energy for our needs today. Not to mention what kind of pressures we had as state and our representatives of the Energy Agency, when it comes to the already famous "Turkish Stream", "Balkan Stream", which was preceded by the South Stream, and how they convinced us that we didn't need it and that there are other gas sources, how we can get from other suppliers, how we should give up our energy dependence on the Russian Federation, and so on, that I don't count everything. Let's look at some of the tables that exist in Europe, the Mediterranean, etc., we will see that, literally, there is no other market, any other supplier that can meet Europe's needs, other than the Russian Federation, which is turned to be the energy supplier of exactly Europe. So far, there's been a battle between the Russian Federation and the United States over who's going to sell gas to Europe. As soon as Asia offered a little better prices for the purchase of liquid oil gas, US sources went to Asia and Europe was alone. Now, we are not EU members, so let those who are in Brussels take more care of how they ran out of gas, but we have to take care of our citizens, our economy, so we have this famous Turkish or Balkan flow that gives Serbia the right to believe that it is an energy stable country. Now I just have to say some results as to why Serbia has led such a policy and what the results of such a policy are. All that is happening in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is not that the budget would be full, as some want to present or at least represent, but to improve the standard of living for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The standard of living of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can only be increased if we have a developed economy. I would just like to remind myself of what is happening and trends that have been happening backwards in Serbia for several years. For example, in 2008, the number of employees in the territory of the Republic of Serbia was 2,821,700 and in 2012, 2.228,300. I was convinced that during one criminal government of the former regime around 400,000 people lost their jobs. I'm sorry to see how wrong I was, 600,000 people lost their jobs. In 2021, the territory of the Republic of Serbia currently employs 2,894.800 citizens, which is more than 670,000 nets in 2012, slightly more than in 2008 when the destruction of the Serbian economy began, by about 70,3 thousand. Someone's gonna argue with that. We'll talk about that later. What's it look like? If the data I'm saying were correct, I'll just remind you, in 2008, the gross income of the Republic of Serbia was 35,712,000,000 euros, in 2012, 33,679,000,000 euros, for about two billion, was less at the end of the power of a thieving regime now headed by Dragan Gilas. In 2021, the projected GDP of the Republic of Serbia is 52,417,000,000 euros or to translate perhaps into other numbers, about 19 billion euros in differences. What it looked like and what it looked like and how fortunate it was that certain structures had not maintained their positions, says an article that happened at the end of the former regime. I will, in order not to be misinterpreted to give time limits, but the 2012 article says that the staff of the CES Mekon Advisory House, the owner of Zvonimir Nikezic, in the last ten years were prime ministers, finance ministers, and as state representatives sold state-owned companies worth billions of euros, controlled or controlled the country's main economic leverages. Then they controlled the NBS, the Securities Committee, the Fiscal Council. I don't know if it's the fiscal council today. I have a right to doubt it. The question remains whether and how much these economic experts CES Mekon benefited from all this, but the fact that this consulting house only advised the Privatisation Agency earned half a billion euros from 2002 to 2009. Thus Dusan Nikezic, son of CES Mekon, as director of the Privatisation Agency from 2001 to 2004, participated in privatisations worth 1.5 billion euros, sold DIV, DIN, Beopetrol, and then worked for CES Mekon from 2004 to 2008 to 2012 as adviser to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, the chairman of the EPS Supervisory Committee. One of our independent bodies has been poisoning the National Assembly for years, as we need to sell the EPS. We are talking about energy, the Management Board of the Energy Project, the Development Fund and the President of the Working Groups for the privatisation of Telekom and Sartide, as well as selecting advisers for Telekom. It's all CES Mecon's, because somebody keeps throwing out some stories here that we should sell to our Telecom. Why was Telekom tried to sell for 900m euros in 2011? As much as it's worth to Telekom today, as many times as during the former regime and those who advised him to destroy it so well, that Solak and Gilas would use Telekom's infrastructure to get rich. Let's move on, since this is the report, the conclusion of the Committee on Economic Affairs whose jurisdiction is privatisation, let's get this straight. Next, I'm not getting into what privatisations were now, just to let you know how far CES Macon's rampage went. That they were assessing Serbia's gas assets, and why were they assessing it? Why CES Mekon, 2010, 2011 was assessing Serbia's gas assets, what to know the value, what to know the accounting value of Serbia's gas. Not until tomorrow, but to sell Serbia's gas. Presented, as they try to give the power to Serbia, and today as they try to give Telekom to Serbia, not even to buy it, but to use all its resources, earn money, and sell Serbia's gas, Telekom, Er Serbia and we should have sold it. It wasn't enough that we found out from the 7 Boings, as much as JAT had at the time, 3 in the year, and 4 as they say, torn up for parts, and now that we have a fleet of 20, 22 and it's not good and it needs to be sold, so we'll talk about everything that's happened over the past year, but here I have a certain restriction as chairman of the Committee on Economy, but as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, no, so we'll talk about how it all looked, to sell Serbia gas. Now I have to ask a question - would we have gas today if we did it? Would we have a Turkish current, a South Stream, a Balkan Stream, call it whatever you want, a Serbian flow? Would we have it? A little tomorrow. We wouldn't have anything. We'd be deserts. Ces Mekon decided on the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Where did "Ces Mekon" come from? The godfather of Mirko Cvetkovic. Yes, colleague Atlagic. A certain Pavle Petrovic was the manager and co-author of the Belgrade Stock Exchange in 1989, he was the director and co-founder of the "Ces Mekona" from 1992 to 1999. That's when it happened and today it's going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. This article I've just read is not from the time of this government. This article was written in the time of the former regime. Imagine that one family is controlled by the Prime Minister, the National Bank, the Fiscal Council, only Sretenovic is not in the DRI, and this is the Nikezic family. These are the same ones who, through the same media, read, appear and this certain Mr. Pavle Petrovic continues the policy he started, release tensions between citizens and our professional public and the general public that there is nothing wrong with doing anything in Serbia, that it is not true that we have nearly seven hundred thousand more employees than in 2012, that it is not true that we have a gross income greater by nearly 19 billion than in 2012, as it was better when our gross income was 33 billion 679 than today's 52,417, then it was better. They say it was better when we had two million 228 thousand employees instead of today's two million 894 thousand, when it was better to have three billion and 14 million real investments, not to sell the C market as in 2011. We have real new jobs, real newly created values. And then they'll talk about how nothing's wrong, how we failed, how they know better. I've seen how they know better -- 600,000 less employees, gross income by two billion euros less at the end of the government than at the beginning. And then someone's going to defend me? Or should I talk about privatisation, how did the privatisation of our social enterprises go? For example, "Knjiz Milos", was that Stimak arrested to sign illegal privatisation? He was arrested. He came here to the Assembly with his arm broken. And that's what Nikezic advised, "Ces Mekon". I'm asking if they've beaten him? Or did a man break his arm so he wouldn't sign and go to jail? Or, let's say, "Frike" was sold to Croatia's Agrokora. Was that a bankruptcy? So we as a state had to react to preserve "Frike", the Croatian firm, go buy something in Croatia, go if you can, let me see. The Milky Way, bought the Farmacom. Was that the one involved in that affair about Agrobank and Galenike? It's the same "Ces Mecon" sold. Next, NIN. Okay, now we know why there's an exclusive space for a certain Paul Petrovic at NIN, after Ces Mekon sold the NIN. Next, "Longing" - failed privatisation. You can imagine what it looks like when the privatisation of the auto-gum factory fails, how many commissions were there then! We barely managed to put that car part back on its feet. Mr. Nenezic, all the congratulations he has managed to bring back to life and protect state property, employees and improve business. But that's when Nikezic, Pavle Petrovic and the others advise you, your factory goes away! "FOD Bor" failed privatisation, "Serbian Valjevo" failed privatisation. "Seme" - a suspicious privatisation. "Belgrade film" -- suspicious privatisation. These are the results of the former regime and I don't know why these are so bad or perhaps great, it just seems that we have different concepts, because I think the bad results of those who are executed by the citizens of Serbia, and it seems to me that they are good results when Gilasu, Šolak, Nikezic and others are full of pockets! Well, that's what we'll always be different about! And we'll always beat them! And as much as some will defend them here, whether through the MPs, whether through a certain gentleman, we will always beat them in the elections, because what Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic started as Prime Minister in 2014 gives us the right to believe and that we can win, unlike those who have lost all battles just to make their pockets fuller.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9765	Thank you. The word has the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9766	I thank the chairman. I would like to say that the reports on the work of the Fiscal Council and the DRI were discussed after their submission, given that their legal deadline was 30 March this year. Then we're 14. We considered the report of the Fiscal Council for the past year and at the 33rd session, on June 15, we discussed the report of the DRI. My colleague Arsic, otherwise when we talk about the Report of the Fiscal Council, singled out his opinion, although we were really considering this report in detail in July of the month, the Committee accepted this report because he felt that it should come to the agenda of the plenary session and we should open up a number of issues, which obviously raise public interest. Many of the facts that we hear on the board when we talk to the Fiscal Council have one approach, and when we hear in the media, when we visit, say, members of the Fiscal Council, it gives a completely different tone. That's why it was very important for us to have a debate on this report, to lead on the board with great openness, to lead here on the tide. Of course, every MP has his own vision of work and institutions, as well as of the individuals who make up this institution. I must also remind the MPs that the Fiscal Council, by means of the Budget Law and the Financial System, has defined both its existence and its end-of-the-end existence, there are regulations which are in the jurisdiction of the adoption of this committee under which, in fact, the Fiscal Council works. Otherwise, the very way to choose and propose is, in principle, that the president of the Fiscal Council proposes the president of Serbia, that one member be proposed by the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and another member is proposed by the finance minister. I would remind you that from 2011, practically, until 2017, this assembly, or the President of the Fiscal Council, was also proposed by the President of the Republic of Serbia, that in 2017, Mr Aleksandar Vukic proposed Professor Pavel Petrovic for this post. We here, by the way, have been discussing these proposals and discussing all this and talking about the past, about the present, but what's very interesting to us is that only on committees in December last year have had the opportunity to choose a new member of the Council. Why am I saying this now, and why is this even relevant to this report? Because when we asked for council decisions, since we were choosing a council with the President of the Fiscal Council, we received information, because the report was submitted by Mr. Nikola Altiparmakov, that there are simply no Council meetings that have taken the decision on reports that have been signed so far and that simply the President of the Fiscal Council has submitted these reports and that we are considering them always on the board, believing that all procedures and procedures under which the institution is working are respected. Obviously, that was not respected, and that a member of the council elected in December of the month, since he did not participate in the work last year, did not speak out on this, nor was he informed. That's what's actually being asked as a big question, means the decision-making process when the documents that come here on the board are a matter of prey. And the question of the very way of making the report, because I have drawn attention that this report on the 90 pages speaks about the work of the agency itself on page 14, and that the rest of the report represents, in fact, all of these 12 analyses that the President of the Fiscal Council spoke of, which were drawn up with its conclusions, of course, by giving priority to the work of the government and president of Serbia in terms of projection when we talk about growth and even economic parameters. That's what I think is somewhere and it certainly defined Mr. Alexander Vukic to propose Professor Pavel Petrovic, because the greater criticism there was, the better the results. That's exactly what it shows in 2020, and it shows this year in 2021. I would remind you that the Fiscal Council, of course in this report, has also submitted certain opinions and assessments concerning the measures that the government made in April of the month following the establishment of a new way of functioning the economies of all countries affected by the Kovid 19 pandemic. At that time, the state gave, in co-operation with Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, with the demands of citizens, as well as with the requirements of the Crisis Headquarters, which are the measures that should really protect people's health and Serbia's economy. Maintaining macroeconomic stability for 2020 has shown that Serbia has fallen 1% in growth, i.e. it has been second in the results of states including all EU and Western Balkan countries. Therefore, the measures taken at that time were timely, adequate and brought into the interest of all citizens of Serbia, not only of the economy, but of all citizens. So the 100-euro measures that were constantly under fire have shown that by increasing consumption in society, we have also stopped the high drop rates that have hit all EU countries. So the average of some economic downturn is from 8% to 12% when we talk about EU countries. So what is very important to us is that everything you give as your projections and as an institution simply shows that with what was the biggest criticism for this year's budget in December, it's impossible to achieve 6% growth rates as a country coming out of the pandemic with 1% decline has proved to be correct. So the IMF adopted a 6.5% growth rate, which does not mean that Serbia will end up exclusively at that growth rate. So, the projection was our 7%, and the fiscal council projections last December were that the ceiling that we can achieve is 4% and then the public investment was 330 billion and we said that these public investments, in fact, are our main generator of these high growth rates, that the consumption that is rising through certain donations and social groups affected by the Kovid-19 pandemic, which will be precisely determined, because the biggest criticism was why all citizens are equally treated in giving and social support from Serbia's budget when in question the Kovid-19 pandemic, it obviously gave results to our economy that show that we are actually going into the growth and development of our economy and in all sectors, starting with infrastructure, starting with health institutions and health infrastructure, starting with opening three factories. So, not only hospitals and centres where we can treat our citizens, but we're opening up vaccine factories that are today one of the basic economic generators of developed countries, and not talking about that part of investment when it comes to education, culture and sport, which are, by nature, unprofitable. We also made these non-profit sectors for economic growth generators. Therefore, I think that a good proposal, in fact, was President Vukic's suggestion that the Fiscal Council, which was in most of the same composition in 2011 and 2017, had made the proposal, because all those conservative projections that are given to Serbia, which are simply subject to constant, permanent criticism on certain televisions that are not in favour of both the Serbian government and the Serbian president, and even this assembly majority, obviously push us all somewhere to show all these results and that citizens in their daily lives can feel these results. Especially this fact that the total GDP since 2012 from 33.7 billion euros to 52 billion euros, today when we are talking about economic growth and development in general, means that Serbia has created a newly formed value of 19 billion euros for the years it has assumed as a responsibility for policymaking and for leading in general and overcoming all the challenges we have experienced since 2012, from May to today. Today when we talk about maybe measuring 100 euros to every citizen, even in this year of 30, plus 30, plus 20, and especially pensioners 50, it obviously has its results. We're talking about public investment, we're talking about adopting final accounts for the previous year together with the budget. So, we, the Serbian Progressive Party, MPs and this assembly majority and those committees where we sit, have managed to simply, 18 final accounts that they had not done before, together with the budget we are considering, although we did not essentially agree that we should simply amnesty many who had led Serbia before us and who simply did not keep Serbia's budget accounts as we are today. Today we also have the praise of international institutions for what we have done, because it is for Serbia's sake. Perhaps we personally disagree with many things, which we simply have to respect because these are procedures that ultimately depend on Serbia's future. I think that institutions should also respect their procedures, as the Fiscal Council should respect, because they imagine what the Competition Commission would do, what the DRI would do, what the Agency would have done if they hadn't put their reports to a vote on their own advice and not put their cases on the table, but simply, if the president had done his report with his associates, signed and put it in the Serbian Assembly to consider us as a Committee and to simply adopt or not adopt, to consider here at the plenary. Then it would mean, simply, disrespect first of all for those who choose members of these institutions, one disrespect and the institution itself, after all, and for the citizens of Serbia, because we are dragging the legitimacy of citizens of Serbia here. We are obliged to report to them what each institution is doing in person and how it ultimately works, because the payment and work of these institutions comes from Serbia's budget. So that's state money, the money of all Serbian citizens. When we talk about the Fiscal Council, their budget is 49,231,000 and this institution's budget is realised in 91%. There are 17 systematicized jobs, of which 12 are filled, nine are constantly employed experts, three are members of the Council and plus three are employees of PP contracts. Of course, they have six offices that they use on the sixth floor of Nemina 17. What is important to say is that the Serbian Parliament and the Financial Committee always adopts the proposals that this institution makes, because we believe that their relevance is truly respected here. Whether it is part of the institution's respect for MPs and citizens, citizens will decide for themselves, after all, on the basis of all this information they have and on the basis of reports they can find on the National Assembly website. As for certain assessments in terms of the institution itself for the transparency of the budget, I will tell you that the Committee has insisted, above all, and participation in the economic reforms Serbia is conducting jointly with the European Commission, by having a completely transparent session that we hold four times a year in local self-government with the DRI, but for the first time, when we are considering the budget in general Serbia, before it enters the tide, we are considering committees, which are completely open type, in the presence of not only the Minister, the Fiscal Council, we have now little and expanded it. We also said that there is a commission dealing with GDP growth, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS, that everyone has the right to present their reports and their projections and their visions for next year, that this is their obligation and duty. Of course, they are pleased to say it all in one place, because they have opportunities on boards through their reports to give their opinions, but what is very important is that in a joint session of committees in a small hall, it is now becoming in some way a practice, that this is how the budget is considered. Last year, and these criticisms concerning ER Serbia, we had the opportunity to hear in detail from the finance minister, that there is not a single fee for ER Serbia that the European Commission does not know about this money, because we have signed all the chapters relating to state aid and that is why we adopted the Law on State Aid for Serbia here. That is why there is a Commission on State aid, which is also in charge of the work of the Finance Committee. Therefore, if so much ER Serbia is a problem, ask the European Commission, there are reports, there are, after all, analyses of budgets on budget implementation, so you can see for the previous year how much the E.R. budget gives Serbia, if that bothers you so much. When it comes to the EPS, we talked about the EPS last year and over last year. Now you see that it's one of the burning topics. As you can see, if we had acted so irresponsiblely and conservatively observed the complete growth and development of the economy in the way that certain economists have forced us to do, today we would simply be in big trouble, as a state. Then, after all, you'd all blame Wolfie. Then eventually, the whole focus of the problem would be that it was the one who led the country, not the ones who gave their opinions. Obviously today, when we talk about the prosperity of the state at all and when we talk about preserving macroeconomic stability, it's very important that we always turn to citizens' problems, problems of the economy and that many conservative projections that we bring in at all and as a state, you just have to give in to the economy and citizens, because they are generators of this growth and development. It is a very important climate and ambience in which the state works, because if we had not been so spot-on with the measures of the economy, we would have experienced one atmosphere of fear, one atmosphere of inability to react in the market at all, as the EU experienced last year, and when every country closed down within its economies, many have experienced a three-fold decline than they should have experienced last year. If we hadn't implemented economic measures as a state and when Mr. Vucic was prime minister and he forced large savings, but also large investments, today 2020 would not have ended with 1% decline, but would have returned completely to the period when we were in 2012. So, all these projections when you put on paper and everything that's real life, you always have to turn in the direction of real life. As you can see, when you turn in the direction of real life, you have results. Then the NBS can also say that the stability of the banking sector was preserved, that the participation of these unfavourable loans in December was 3.7%, and it was once almost double the level of foreign direct investment last year ended with three billion euros, which was unforeseeable at all in one way that it indicated everything in March 2020. So the level of investment is almost the same, our foreign direct investment, as for the entire Western Balkans region. Then, when we talk about that in February, 12G Eurobonds were broadcast in the international market, worth one billion, at a rate of 1.65 per cent. This shows, in fact, that Serbia has profited, so it has not lost when it comes to the banking sector at all. When we're talking about a certain piece at all, and the most important part is inflation, so our inflation remains stable. In EU countries today, it is already at 3.3% with the tendency to grow, double by the end of the year. So, great instability and economic and financial is in our environment, and also in a group of countries where we're on the road. So everyone congratulates on these results. Why? Because at some point, we always knew how we were going to react, although perhaps at some point many financial experts didn't like it or didn't see it give some certain results, but it's obvious that there are results, because in 2021 it wouldn't have been so successful if it hadn't been for that. I can't look back on our reality today, because we're talking about reports here today, and since we represent citizens' interests, our exposure can't be out of the real world. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to see how Serbs live in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and we saw under what tension and what this security factor, in fact, affects the life of our citizens in the southern Serbian province, which is due to go to the polls on Sunday. Why am I saying this now, and why is it so important when we talk about economy and economy in general? We must not forget, in June of the month here in the Serbian Parliament, we adopted a report on the work of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija from 2019 to 2021, which says that Serbia has given to displaced persons for the construction, economic development and infrastructure of projects at KIM 2.27 billion dinars to return displaced persons to KIM territory to live in peace and prosperity. I say deliberately in peace and prosperity because the political message of peace, the dialogue was always by Serbia. As you can see, Kurti was sent yesterday a message that they want instability, that they want simple violence against Serbs, that they do not want dialogue and that Serbia must be ready at all times to protect the interests of its people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. In addition to the 2 billion and 278 million dinars invested over the past two years, it has also been invested for schools, hospitals and institutions in the jurisdiction of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, which amounted to 53 million dinars. Also, a lot has been invested, and if you remember the 2013 Report, to this day more than 10 billion dinars. Now I ask you, if it weren't for such good economic results for Serbia, could we as a state help our citizens in Kosovo and Metohija? Could we even talk about how they can have both a store and a pharmacy and have drugs, eventually have the possibility of vaccination and treatment at the time of the pandemic? Could we even talk about the remnant of Serbs in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and even going to the elections? Is there an interest in our citizens that they simply live in that territory of the part of Serbia, our southern province? Of course not. Of course, that their problem and their life would be a problem for Serbia, without having these economic results that we are talking about today, that aid, in this economic sense, in financing through investments, could not exist. We need reality and life, everyday, to observe at all times and to respond to all these challenges. Therefore, all those reports that are given as a kind of projection of the Fiscal Council are a good indicator of which to go, but sometimes you don't have to give results, but it's good to have it as a kind of open dialogue of insinuators and what we think is, well, what's commended is that the budget was balanced and that public investment is at a good level, and that's what we're looking forward to. We also adopted the Internal Systemisation Regulation at the session, approved new three jobs to the Fiscal Council, because we considered it necessary for this institution to develop in this sense to employ young, new professionals, because it would probably open up the possibility of some more modern approaches, when it comes to different projections for new economic trends, because it is obvious that the economy is changing. The European Commission has indicated that, in addition to energy, digital and green transition, there is also a financial transition, when it comes to investing the whole process. Therefore, we must be part of that transition and follow those modern trends. The report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2020 has been heard by the President of the institution and what is very important is that the report is based on the DRI Act, Article 43(1) and Article 45, found that we must therefore adopt one kind of conclusion and that conclusion consists of four parts in which, when we vote and adopt this Report, we will also agree with this conclusion. This conclusion speaks first of all, has four points, on assessment with recommendations, on implementation of these recommendations, on how the implementation of the budget system law itself should look, and on its publication in the Official Messenger. Under one, the National Assembly estimates that the DRI in its Report fully presented DRI activities in the exercise of constitutional and legal competences it has in the audit of public funds. Under two recommendations from the DRI contained in the report on work for 2020 in the National Assembly, it recommends that the Government take all measures out of its jurisdiction to ensure the implementation of the DRI recommendations because it will propose to the National Assembly the adoption of appropriate laws, as well as the amendment and addition of the sublegal rules adopted by the Government and the regulations of the Ministry which they specifically pointed out in the Report. Under three, starting from the DRI findings, a large number of revised public funds users have not established an internal control system and we are talking about it in the last five years, and this is what is important corrective, but also an advisory factor in each of the public users of public funds where it is said that, in accordance with regulations, internal acts and contracts, objectives should be achieved in accordance with and that the National Assembly notes that it is necessary for the Government to commit, in accordance with its responsibility for law enforcement, to establish an adequate system of financial management and control and the introduction of internal audit of public funds users. We with the DRI are part of the programme of financial management of public funds, when it comes to funds, not only of the EU, but of economic reforms. What's important is that we've had three sessions so far. The fourth session is usually held in December when, based on all the legal solutions so far and all the recommendations of the DRI, we are considering proposals for legislative solutions that should be changed in the following year. We have a really open door, when it comes to the Ministry of Finance in this part, that we are proposing these reforms and these proposals together, so that when they come here for prey and consideration, when it comes to the board, we are very much informed about what is changing, why and what target groups are affecting all these changes. What we saw from the report on the work of the Council of the Institutions, when it came to the DRI, was 20 sessions, that the revision programme for 2021 was adopted at the end of the year, that the amendments and additions to the Internal Organization Regulations were adopted, that there were three, that we had five members of the Council, 292 employed in audit services, 33 in the accompanying and one internal auditor. It is important to say that everything, as we have seen from this report, irregularities that occur are mostly on the sides of large institutions, i.e. institutions that have a large number of employees, that there are the biggest problems, but that we solve these problems together, in a certain way, that the DRI sends people who have an advisory character and somewhere to help overcome all the problems that arise and when it comes to employment, and when it comes to wages, and when it comes to public procurement, and when it comes to respect for procedures in general. There's what the DRI insists on - respect for procedures. So now, for example, if the DRI were to visit the Fiscal Council, it would immediately conclude that the decision-making procedures were not respected and that I think it would be good for the DRI to have as much control as possible of the institutions as possible, because it starts with these procedures where they are only an active question, and until the payments have been made, whether it's a good financial audit, business audit or a purpose, the purposes for which the money was spent, whether they were actually properly and legally spent. I think it's of great importance and it shows that the spectrum of subjects has increased. So now 270 entities are covered, which is 7.6% more than in the previous year, that more positive solutions have been issued, which shows that state institutions are learning to respect regulations and that, ultimately, we have fewer and less negative estimates. This is what is of great importance to us, and that savings in the budget is increasing and greater, that irregularities are less and that budget savings are greater, by respecting the rules relating to financial procedures. In Voting Day, I think all MPs should really support these reports, regardless of whether we agree with all the segments that are in that report, but it is very important to open up a dialogue like this that will, of course, look at all these writings that they would tell me, because someone has to and read that they can talk about them, of course, open to all the MPs to give their views on these reports. So I urge all MPs to vote positively, of course, for these reports on the work of these two institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9767	One of the promoters, Veroljub Arsic, came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that what I want to say now, I can also say in the previous presentation, but as a man who respects the procedure, above all, and then a man who thinks he's been well brought up, I think it was wrong to talk about the conclusion of the Finance Committee, about the report on the work of the Fiscal Council until my esteemed colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, submits a report as an authorised representative of the promoter. When it came to the disputed conclusion, I did vote for it, but at the time of the vote I gave my opinion as a MP and as a member of that committee, and I gave my opinion for the following reason, which is that the Fiscal Council, at least that impression came to the Committee when representatives and the Fiscal Council were there, Mr Bojan Dimitrijevic and Mr Nikola Altarmakov, could not confirm to me that there was a session in which the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2020 was established. As a matter of fact, colleague Bojan Dimitrijevic, sir, I apologize, I say colleague, because he was also an MP, says he didn't even know that any report was sent to the Committee on Finance and the National Assembly. I think they're serious not to miss, but even if it wasn't a little rougher, a serious violation of the law, because let me remind you a little, Article 92. The budget system law regulates the legal position of the Fiscal Council. So you have 90a, b, v, g, and not to count all the way up to the end, but in 92a, it is also said point 1 point 2: “The fiscal council is responsible to the National Assembly for carrying out the work of its jurisdiction. ” He's an independent organ, but he's not independent. Someone's responsible for their work. So it is said in Article 92b: “The fiscal council is exercising its responsibilities after the election of all three members of the Fiscal Council. To translate what that means. The fiscal council cannot make any decision unless all three members participated in the decision-making process, at least one of them refused to attend the sessions, but he had the right to participate because members of the Fiscal Council were elected by the National Assembly, but on the proposals of three officials. The president is proposed by the president of the Republic, one member of the Fiscal Council is proposed by the finance minister and another member of the Fiscal Council by the governor of the National Bank. In order for him to make decisions, all three representatives who have proposed three persons, three public functions, I don't say the names personally, must, so all three must participate in the decision-making process. And who could forbid Mr. Bojan Dimitrijevic from taking part in a decision on the report of the Fiscal Council for 2020 with an explanation, top-notch impudent, top-notch, that he was not a member of the Fiscal Council at the time? Oh, yeah? We sent him out of here, we got out of here. He has the right to participate in any part, like any other, that he was chosen at any time, we sent him for it. Which one of you has the right to those powers that we didn't give you when we elected you take over from us? You don't. Someone here said that fiscal advice is more important than his destiny. Yes, it is. Even though all the procedures here are not respected, as a People's MP, I voted on the Committee, I will vote in this session for a conclusion that adopts the work of the Fiscal Council. As representative of the parliamentary group, I will ask my fellow SNS MPs to vote in favour of this same conclusion because I am more concerned with the Fiscal Council than with an individual, because I am not going to violate the reputation of the Fiscal Council and I am keeping it more than the President of the Fiscal Council. More of us MPs protect the reputation of the Fiscal Council. Imagine if the law were to be signed by a colleague, here, who now holds the presidency, Marija Jevdzic, without a decision from the National Assembly or Ivica Dacic. Imagine the report on the work of the National Bank that didn't adopt the Board of Governors. Imagine Mr Popovic reporting to us that his Council did not adopt. The same goes for DRI, the Competition Protection Commission. Imagine that colleague Tomic herself wrote the conclusion, signed and gave us that we were adopting him or that I was on the Committee on Economy, the Agency for Energy or counterpart Marijan Risticevic. Oh, man, that's not normal. I can disagree with someone, I can't approve, we can cross arguments. I may be right, I may be wrong, but one thing - the procedure must be respected. It is the procedure that guarantees, first of all, that there is no dictatorship and we are attacked to have dictatorships. The procedure and respect for the procedure is that it guarantees that there is a rule of law, and from that, we are under attack that there is no rule of law. The procedure is that it guarantees that there is no corruption, and then all those who say there is no rule of law, how insecure investors are, how insecure citizens are, how corruption is, how dictatorship is, they are the first to break procedures. It must have remained their manners while they were in power. Here, I say, I'll vote for this conclusion, let it be private, because I'm more concerned with the Fiscal Council as an institution and the reputation of the Fiscal Council than with the reputation of a state authority because at some point someone was irresponsible. It's a question for him, perhaps for us, but much more for him and for what he stands for.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9769	Thank you, colleague Arsic. Before I give a word to one of the promoters, one notice. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 18.00 hours for the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by Pavle Petrovic, president of the Fiscal Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9770	In the end, I'm going to talk more widely about the discussions, but right now I just wanted to make it clear about this report that's in front of you. So, because of the pandemic, we didn't have a physical meeting of the Fiscal Council, but around this report we electronically held a meeting of colleagues Altiparmakov and I and adopted this report of the Fiscal Council, we met a colleague of Dimitrijevic, but we did not ask him to evaluate and sign it because he was not responsible for 2020 and did not participate. So that was before we submitted this report to the Committee. After the circumstances allowed, it means in the summer, in early August, that same report that is now in front of you we signed a colleague of Altiparmak and I, again we did not ask a colleague of Dimitrijevic, and in talking to him I told him that he was taking responsibility for something he did not participate in. However, he is certainly welcome and he has read the report several times so far and is welcome to join, if necessary. So this is the first time we haven't met and signed the reports because the conditions were like this, we've been working for a pandemic from home, and in that sense I think the procedures have been respected. As regards the revision, there is an internal audit as well as any other body and this internal audit has been carried out in this report and is carried out every year in the Fiscal Council and it is positive. Of course, now that the terms allow for the pandemic, all our other reports relating to 2021 have been accepted and signed by all three members of the Fiscal Council and we will do so in the future. So much for the report itself, because I think it's rather a result of a misunderstanding than a real failure, and for the other elements of the discussion, I hope to have the opportunity to finally give my comments and answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9771	The word has Veroljub Arsic as a proposal. Of course, you have the right to always answer, but I would ask that we move slowly to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9772	I'll be brief, Mr. Dacic. We can always say that we had that line of sessions, that we consulted on the phone. We can talk the same way here in the National Assembly, but I have to say that we can only make decisions based on our Rules of Procedure, and in our Rules of Procedure, it says we have to be physically present. He doesn't say it in a decade, but he doesn't know our Rules of Procedure about work, and he doesn't know, as far as I know, not even the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Fiscal Council. He doesn't know him. So it has to be physically present. Now I hear something was signed in August. The session at which we discussed the minutes was held on July 14th. You're too late. July 15th was too late. I will now quote a member of the Fiscal Council from that session of the Committee – in this case I have not signed any minutes, nor was there any formal session that I know. I just have to say it. Of course, there was an opportunity to say something, but when it comes to this particular case of the report, I was in no way involved in his writing. No, it's not an excuse, it's a simple fact. Nor was I a member of the Fiscal Council last year, and the report itself, I must admit, that I was waiting for Alexandra, thought of Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Committee, found out that he came to the meeting of the Assembly, or the Committee. Here something is wrong – or, I understand that Mr Dimitrijevic did not participate in the work of the Fiscal Council for 2020. Does this mean that the MPs elected in 2021 cannot vote on the 2020 report? Or if Mr. Bojan won't participate in the work of the Fiscal Council for Writing the Report, then that's the problem between us and him because we sent him to do something there. If you don't give it to him, then it's a problem between us and those who don't give it to him, because I'm the Fiscal Council Act that makes you have to work in full composition, I'm a member of 92b. Article 3 says - The Fiscal Council shall exercise its competence after the election of all three members of the Fiscal Council. So, in full composition and full capacity, no matter when who's elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9773	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9774	In the terms of the pandemic, we are electronic, not by phone, but by Webex, Zuma, holding almost all meetings and we are essentially working so that not only three members of the Fiscal Council, but all employees are doing permanent reports, agreeing and bringing. The last step was a defacto completely formal, but he was respected too because my colleague Nikola Altiparmakov and I agreed to accept the document. The only reason I thought about it was when it was my first chance, and that was after mid-July, when it was our first chance to meet physically, then my colleague Altiparmakov and I signed the report. I've been informing my colleague Bojan Dimitrijevic about everything and the only reason he can say it, which I didn't think I should insist on signing or considering something he didn't participate in, but with pleasure if you think it was a failure to allow, he's read that report a few times in the meantime, he can and can now explain what he thinks about that report, and then, I say, for all the other reports we're meeting and signing. So, once again, the pandemic, that whole 2020, was the kind of legal document in the Fiscal Council, that it was a recommendation from the Crisis Headquarters from home, which means via "Webex", "Zuma" and other communication systems, we held these meetings.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9775	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9776	Okay, I accept it was a line, but I still can't accept the other part. So, Mr. Vukkovic resigned as a member of the Fiscal Council and we chose Mr. Dimitrijevic in his place. Now, if my colleague Nikola had resigned too, would we have a report from the Fiscal Council? In this way, no, this is how the Fiscal Council acted not because we now have two new members of the Fiscal Council who did not participate in the work of the Fiscal Council in 2020. Don't, people. Really, don't. It's not this. If he wants to, he can sign it. You insult the dignity of the National Assembly. You're really insulting him. This isn't a kid's game, people. A report is submitted to the National Assembly. This isn't a test pass, so we're gonna change your question, your combination, whatever. Come to the National Assembly. All you can do is pull it back and deliver a new one and then you can't sign it afterwards. Not many of us messengers insult it. Do it right. Respect the procedures. Respect the procedures because as long as you respect the procedures then there is the weight of the document you have brought. Indeed, any further discussion will question all of our good will to go beyond all of this and finally come out and adopt that report.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9778	In exceptional circumstances such as the pandemic then physical presence is not possible, which is also recommended by the Crisis Headquarters and the Government, so everything was done in modern, electronic terms. At these meetings we made those conclusions, including between me and another member of the Fiscal Council of Nikola Altiparmak. When the pandemic allowed us to come, to be physically present, we took our first chance and signed it. My only reason why I didn't ask a third member of the Fiscal Council to sign, not to exclude him, but not to ask him for more responsibility than he can. I'd be happy to offer him and then and now that he's involved. Of course, it's hypothetically possible that we didn't have a single member of the Fiscal Council, so we can reopen the report in order to submit. The key thing is that two members of the Fiscal Council, who participated in the work in 2020, signed this report and stood behind this report, which is in any case the majority of the Fiscal Council. I believe my colleague Dimitrijevic would do the same. I just didn't want to put that obligation on his back. Therefore, honourable MPs, here absolutely everything is pure. Of course, you can look everywhere for hair to split into two parts.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9779	Thank you. Djordje Milicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9780	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 106th and a member of 107th. The dignity of the National Assembly has been injured several times already by the promoter, President of the Fiscal Council. On the other hand, I believe that we should return to what is the topic of today's assembly session and allow representatives of the parliamentary groups to plead on the reports. Before that, Mr Petrovic, don't underestimate the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, don't do it for the first time. That's what you did with the government of the Republic of Serbia. I made it very clear to you during the previous session, when we discussed the Fiscal Council report. Everyone here has their own responsibility. You know what your responsibility is, you know what our responsibility is. Our responsibility is, you'll allow, a little higher than your responsibility, because we're elected by citizens and we're responding to the citizens we're sitting here for. Do not say that the pandemic period is the reason why the session was not held and why Mr Dimitrijevic, as a member, did not sign the report. Are we all crazy here? Do we not respect the measures of the pandemic? Are you saying we're irresponsible sitting here, us 250 and what are we doing? This is how you degrade these people sitting here in the Assembly Hall, the entire Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The three of you couldn't meet and comply with the pandemic measures and make up as it was procedurally defined, adopt the report. Today you offer it to Mr. Dimitrievich to sign or not. Mr. Petrovic, that's embarrassing. He didn't take part in 2020. So what does that mean? We have a problem with Kosovo and Metohija today. This problem has been going on for centuries. What does that mean? Alexander Vukic, the new government, is here, so we don't have to deal with this issue. Why? Well, we're not responsible. It's inherited. Mr Petrovic, I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly in the follow-up of today's session, and I implore you that we begin the debate when it comes to authorised representatives and heads of parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9781	I'm sorry, Mr Petrovic, you have no right to a replica, to a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I would, by the way, just to remind you that the committee responsible for this conclusion has proposed that this report be accepted. Committee President Veroljub Arsic has issued an opinion. Dispute questions could be considered at the Committee's session. If you didn't think it was necessary, you shouldn't have suggested a conclusion like this. Therefore, I find any further discussion on this subject incomplete. We are going to the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9782	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, honourable vice presidents, respected rapporteurs of the report, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to let me know that I will speak 50 minutes, 30 as chairman of the board and 20 as authorized and six minutes off the list of registered, 56 minutes in total. Please prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9783	You can talk all you want. I'm going to the Venice Commission. He can't go on and on. Twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9784	Okay. I don't need it anymore. We have four very important reports today, and I am sorry that we have spent so much time just starting a debate on behalf of the parliamentary groups, but it is also an integral part of parliamentary work and parliamentary life. I've been listening very carefully to a debate about the fiscal council, and I must say I've changed my mind. Based on my insights into the report, I felt that this report should be supported, and now that I have heard the arguments of my colleague Arsic, aside from the arguments and so much effort he has made to explain his arguments, I will vote against the report. I also demand that colleagues Arsic and his MP groups vote against. What's the point of spending two now explaining how something's wrong, and we're gonna end up supporting it? Let's be consistent, so if that's wrong, or if that report pulls back, or if we vote against, rather than wasting our time here, we're bored, we're exhausted from all sides, and then we're gonna say we're gonna vote. I simply demand a minimum consistency in that. The dignity of the National Assembly should be kept together, including our time here, the attention we pay. While I'm at the Fiscal Council, in order not to return to it, I would certainly support what was proposed, as far as social cards are concerned. It's very important, I've talked about it here before when we had laws that we've established a framework for the assignment of various kinds of help to citizens, and I'll always stand by to find a way to focus the vulnerable groups, or the poor, and to single them out and actually help the vulnerable, and not linearly to everyone, even though that help was good at the time, it wasn't just financially, but psychologically it had a very big impact, given the overall state of depression that we were on during the first months of the pandemic. At that time, it could be understood, but in the future, I fully agree that we simply focus vulnerable groups, i.e. categories of socially endangered, poor and that we single out and use every budgetary opportunity to help and facilitate their lives, especially in times of crisis. As regards the Commission on the protection of competitiveness, i.e. their report, but before that, generally on all reports. So the reports are clearly made up professionally, qualityly done, so there's not much room left for discussion about the content itself in terms of whether that's the case, because they're factographic. I would like to focus my attention on the work itself and the improvement of the work of organisations, i.e. institutions, councils and agencies that report here today. I think that as MPs we should pay more attention to, or more energy to invest that, in fact, by following the work of these organizations or institutions, we actually notice what should be improved in the work itself. So for me, the debate area is more important than dealing with the details of the reports. The issue of competitiveness protection is a very important issue and the health of the economy depends to a significant extent on the degree of determination, i.e. on the environment of competitiveness. It's a fact and all those countries that have decided on the free market actually represent that course and that's something that's kind of an axioma. So that's a fact. To the extent that we protect competition or ensure healthy competition or the health of competition, to this extent we will also have a process of healing the economy. In this respect, it is very important to pay particular attention to the Competitiveness Protection Commission. What falls into my eyes is that the Commission's attention is focused on those common forms of distortions of competitiveness, which simply come most often from some ambition or the intention to ensure a monopoly position for a subject. That's about what the report shows and what this commission mostly does. However, it would be desirable to expand attention and explore other ways of jeopardising competitiveness. Yes, the monopoly is the most classic, clear, most common form of competitive endangerment, however, there are other forms of endangering competitiveness. For example, organized crime and capital that comes from organised crime, it is even more dangerous to me, one of the more effective, more effective impact on competitiveness than these petty forms where someone ensures they pass over to someone, which should certainly not be allowed, but I think the Competitiveness Protection Commission should also shed more light on that form. I once spoke here, as part of another topic, of the experience that New Market has been going through for the last 30 years, through all these analysis we've had, in terms of economy, especially small businesses and what has been associated with a very serious private initiative. You know for a fact that New Market was spoken of as some kind of economic miracle in the '90s. Today, we have a simple heartburn of these vast small and medium-sized enterprises, family companies, which were then created, which were very well working and which were producing. So it's about production, not some speculative action that we can say, smuggling, trade. No, it's production. Production in whatever variant, even in the gray zone, can't be underestimated. Production is production. If someone manages to organize the production process, from raw materials to products, to plasma, it's a serious thing. Even if there are some disadvantages of a guy whether someone is doing their brand or plagiarism, it's other topics, but it's something that's very difficult to establish. So it's very difficult to establish that in one city of just over 100,000 inhabitants you had at some point about 5,000 economic operators who were producing, self-production. So that's something that's fantastic. And now all that potential after 20 years, or 25 or 30, comes down to only 20% of the survivors. We and a group of economists analyzed what led to one great potential simply falling. There are more factors and cannot be aware of one reason, but one of the key factors was the indifference of these entities in the field of competitiveness against the dirty capital of crime. So it submerged all those small, medium, honest producers, family workers, who employed 30 and a half-50 workers, who could not cope with the competition of those producers of the same goods but who had a lot of money from organised crime, primarily drug trafficking, trade and cigarette smuggling. I don't know if it falls under direct jurisdiction, but it should be part of the commission's jurisdiction to deal with it. Of course, at that time we had this huge blow and drug crime and other forms of crime, however, we still have it today. These are the things that are verifiable. No one can produce and repair couches for years and suddenly become a large furniture producer with a capital of several tens of millions. It's the least I can do for a check. Then what happens? This one or a few such floods of all those dozens or hundreds of honest furniture producers who can't keep up with them, simply can't, either in investment or market. Because it doesn't matter to him whether he sells that chair or that bed cheaper or not, because he's doing good with furniture booters, his furniture booters sell smuggled cigarettes, and that's where millions turn and they become all-powerful. This creates one disaster in terms of competitiveness for others who are not actually in those waters. It's similar with drugs. It is similar with some manufacturers, confectious producers, etc. So now it's reduced because many are submerged, but we still have this phenomenon and we'd have to deal with it. Of course, the Commission itself cannot push it out to the end, push it out, because the issue of organised crime is also the issue of the Ministry of the Interior, the issue of special services dealing with it, etc. But what would be very important is for you to detect it, because it's verifiable things. So if you have someone that has jumped out selling couches, earned 30.50m euros, it's seen in investments, facilities, equipment, etc., it's very easy to verify. You either made that money legally, or you credited it. So that's something you must have your leads on. We can't pretend here that, well, we don't understand, business is going well, it's done. So that's just how it looks. However, the one who maintained its production with a hundred or two hundred workers submerged dozens of those who fired thousands of workers. I know people from Novi Pazar, my friends, acquaintances, who not only closed their businesses because they didn't want drugs and cigars involved in their business, but had to move out of New Pazar because they were ashamed of why they failed, and they were fantastic, great professionals, working for years, producing, selling. However, it simply was not possible to endure. So that's why this topic is of paramount importance. I know every time I talk about this, they're gonna get upset there. Here, look, he's talking against our Pazar, against the businessmen. No, I'm not talking against businessmen, I'm talking about businessmen. I speak against criminals in the economy. I hereby protect all those honest and furniture producers and confectionery producers and everyone else, but of course that's not enough to just say here in the National Assembly, but it's very important that it gets its institutional dimension. In this case, the Commission can play a very important role. It should detect it and simply be visible in the reports, and then simply on the basis of these reports, demand the involvement of competent authorities involved in the fight against organised crime. As far as the Energy Agency is concerned, what we are particularly interested in are the implications relating to Electrodistribution, especially in the Sandzak area. We already have these certain political arrangements to start with the refurbishment of the power grid. But here we have been losing for a year, and nothing has been done in that field yet. It's necessary to update that. Especially when we're on the verge of winter, because we have, at least last year's experience was extremely bad, the unprotection of electricity from trees, through forest and mountain areas, then small snow. So, I'm a witness, because I've been staying with my parents in the country more often this weekend, and I'm witnessing that snow from three-centimeters away from electricity in the Tutin municipality. It's incomprehensible to me in the 21st century, that it's simply starting, what it sees, there's no electricity. Then you ask, what is it? So the branches become heavy, and they descend, and they touch. It's ugly for me to say, idiotic reasoning, but I don't have a better one. It's really something ugly that offends my intelligence, which I can't accept is normal for us to have such an argument in the 21st century. It's okay to have sudden storms, various weather accidents, so it happens, my God, but if snow is going to threaten the current, or the distribution of electricity, then it's really something else. We know that Tutin is particularly threatened by the actual supply and that he is now in solving and building one of the central trafoes that will significantly facilitate, or strengthen, improve the quality of the power supply, but that is only one of the problems. The other problem is the network itself. What I want to point out here is, it looks just as amazing, but it's really too much of the complaints that come to us from citizens who are concerned with the oscillation of electricity bills. It's really too much. You all think about it, so that's one thing... That's hundreds. It's amazing that, say, in the middle of the flight, he's oscillating someone, I don't know, his electricity's constantly coming in five or six thousand and suddenly he gets an account of 30,000 dinars. These are the things that one will say, so wait, where did you come from, what are you talking about, from what time? Whichever way you want to go, but here I come. So it's something that's unacceptable and that people simply don't have the strength to fight. Some of them took lawyers, so they fought, but a small number of citizens have the capacity to protect themselves through a court of electricity collection. If we're still going to be in court to protect ourselves from state and public enterprises, then we're really in a lot of trouble. This is something that we should deal with significantly more thoroughly. When it comes to the audit institution, we've treated the subject equally many times. A break of a few years that was in the Shadow when she was in control, now she's gone, we already have information that the controls have been increased. But we have something else in the Shadow, which is one big paradox again. So, in this country, it is possible, for example, that one government in 20 years completely devastates one municipality, that in that time the competent audit institutions tolerate this devastation, that this municipality now when it changes power, from one year to one year, the Municipality of Sjenica of its government is only one day literally, please, only one day has a deblocked account. Let's imagine that a small municipality, which has five million euros in debt, which remains because of the crimes and abuses of the last government, which has only one day's unblocked account, will imagine how these people function. Look, the state, the government, with all the institutions, and the supervisory and executive, can't stick his head in the sand and say, "Well, my God, it happens." That can't happen. The first thing that must be brought to justice by those who have brought that municipality into such a state, therefore, from the position of the local self-government of Sjenica, on the other hand, who has allowed them from the position of control, mandatory control, where the necessary measures should be taken, so that no, and the third thing, the obligation of the state, the competent authorities, the government, the Ministry of Finance and all others is to take extraordinary measures to save the municipality. So it's just some normal stuff. Otherwise, we're showing that this country is a loose system, that it's important where the concentration of energy and different interests is, and here's that poor Sice, these Tutini, that there, come on you, don't let some rebellion, some secessions, this, that don't hurt our head. What they're failing, what's been blocked by an account for a year, what they can't accept pay, what they don't have the right options to fix the lives of citizens, to do the smallest services, it's unimaginable to me. That's where the line has to be drawn. That's where behavioral energy must be shown. There are some shifts, not to mention that everything is black, there is a significant investment initiative in roads, so we did this cave highway, and there are some rural roads and some streets. But it's a waste of you fixing some boards on board, if the ship sinks. What do we have here for nailing a couple of boards or painting some part of the ship? It's all right, but if the ship sinks, first of all, it has to be saved not to sink, and then we're going to do other things about repairing the situation, which is not good in all fields, when it comes to the Shadows, if you add to that everything that happens from crime, murder, liquidation, the ambition of criminal groups to control local self-government and school. Now, here, there's a fierce fight over one school, where that same famous director who's been kidnapped, beaten twice, now a criminal group that has a strong influence on the school board, has its candidates, wants to eliminate him, these are the conditions that when added to this economic gray and the problems that have been inherited are very bad. I don't want 50 minutes, don't worry, Chairman. Thank you for your attention. Every good thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9785	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Zukorlic. The next president of the Single Serbia Parliament Club, Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9786	A respected delegation from the state institutions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Unique Serbia will vote for your reports. We have a few suggestions. It's just that no one's ever mentioned those suggestions before. Let's not get attached, as some say - it's not my job, let someone else who's in charge of it, etc. First, I will talk about the Commission's report on the protection of competition. When it comes to the protection of competition, I will not say that you are not working well, but simply we have a continuing problem of agricultural products that are not in markets from Serbia, but agricultural products from imports, and lately a huge amount of imports are in our markets and shops. We are slowly but surely closing the agricultural producer from the village, because he has nowhere to go, he had nowhere to place his products, because they are allegedly cheaper products from imports than from domestic production. I know we're bound by agreements and CEFTA and all the other agreements signed by the former government, but you as someone who protects competition must have a suggestion on how to overcome this problem. We've come to the situation that 95% of the barn or the barn is empty in the country, not because people don't want to work, but they have no one to sell their product to. What else are you supposed to do, and I didn't hear you say that in the report, six or seven months ago, or a year ago, protection of credit users, how can courts judge a number of credit users to return what's called credit processing, and later say it doesn't apply – we'll go back to the old ones, etc.? You know that, I don't know whether or not you know, but if you don't know, let me give you the information that it was one financial fraud, because the processing of credit in Swiss was 50% lower than the processing of credit in another currency. Anyone who takes credit, he looks at the start of what it is that he has to pay as a participation and that these people who have had that expense, and especially those who have taken loans in Swiss, to see if it is a fictitious growth and a leap of one currency that is a Swiss franc. No currency was followed, and that people who took loans for apartments, even a 70-square apartment, paid off and paid off three times. So three apartments had to buy that credit was in euro. In my opinion, if it's some kind of protection against competition, and competition is other banks, whether they're centralized or not, but obviously, someone who took the loan had 30% credit at that time to get a pay loan. Afterwards, it was almost 70% of people in charge. I don't know if you know that over 17% of the apartments were taken away from those who paid off. If they had taken a loan in euro, they could have bought two apartments. So he paid off two apartments and took it away because I don't know how many more wars and no apartments left. That should be the same description of your job, because you're a state institution and you're protecting yourself. When it comes to the Fiscal Council, the Fiscal Council, in my opinion, scores from one to five, score three plus with a point. Not because it is unprofessional, but because several times my observation was that you served that the Republic of Serbia's budget does not have the bonus as it is real, but rather slightly smaller. Let me remind you, that the first time happened in the last seven, eight years, that the surplus was from the original incomes, and from income, something that wasn't the sale of real estate, which wasn't the case of earlier years. Furthermore, that the funds invested in certain infrastructures, such as hospitals, homes of health, roads, etc., I am free to say, that not that these funds went where they should, but that many lives saved those funds, which are from the budget, at the time when perhaps not planned to make a homage of hospitals, ambulances, roads, fast tracks and everything else that has experienced a visual change in our Serbia. When it comes to loans, you have, President of the Fiscal Council, or directors, boss, you have one picture and experience based on your age, that without a loan you can't do anything capital, and the credit is decided by banks, the World Bank, the International Bank. When you give consent to the IMF, and you say before that credit is a figure that burdens the budget of the Republic of Serbia, thus reducing the credit rating, when it comes to both the World Bank and the IMF and everyone else, where the Republic of Serbia is in debt. If we look at how much other countries have owed in the EU, and how much they owe per capita, then we are in first place based on the number of residents in terms of the percentage of the debt, or at least Serbia is in charge of the head of the population and that you have security. You know, when you go to the bank and you look for a long-term loan, they ask you for contracts, business contracts, I mean business entities, privates, did you make any contracts for that current year, whether you'll have a guaranteed inflow, regardless of the final account and total from last year. So, these are some of my remarks when it comes to fiscal advice. What else, you must, as someone with information coming together, and I am now telling you as a businessman for 37 years, that next year there will be an unremembered global economic crisis like your generation and my generation didn't remember. The yellow light is on, and it's going to be red. The yellow light is lit based on the price of gas and the price of oil on the stock market. Never has gas so suddenly jumped, or an increased price such as today's electricity price, where Serbia has its own production and so on. And what affects the price, the growth of these energies, oil and electricity? It affects production, food production and all other production, not to mention all of them, and the layoff of workers, those two factories that fired workers, they fired workers because they lost the European market. It is not the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president that the workers there are no longer working. I don't know how much you follow, or if you have such information, that on average on today there are between 10% and 20% fewer workers than before the coves in factories that work in Serbia for years. Your advice daily should be how to prepare and businessmen, I'm not talking about the state, the state has good experts. What is still the biggest problem of collapse, when you say – e, you know what, it was successful and failed in a year. Today big investment is only safe if you can pay for a year or a year or a half, because no one lives anymore knows what's going to happen on the market for the next two or three years. So the Fiscal Council, it should do and be indirect, and indirectly give advice to those who are tortured how to earn a single dinar and to pay the state and all that is called the cost of small, medium and large enterprises. So I didn't hear in your report, or I didn't see it in your report, and also when it comes to your performances. Your performances were at press conferences where the state should be in charge, to say it shouldn't or shouldn't be given help to pensioners, it doesn't need to be given the help of the welfare of the state, and that the state doesn't give those people could and would have nothing to live on. And we have to say that we did everything before the deadline when it comes to both the covid and the funds aren't planned in the budget. The state auditor knows that very well. When you have something called the gulf and the effluent side, and you do not have in the gulf side a figure that can cover that sterling side when it comes to vaccines and protection, and you can repack the budget five percent from one position to the other, where you will find the funds without removing any of the positions planned in the budget, because every position in the Republic of Serbia's budget is very important for the development of this country and for every citizen living in this country. I have not seen any position in the state budget in which we can say – e, you see this position is luxury and should not be planned, should be taken down or repacked to something else. The fiscal council has to do a little bit more. I'm not going into it right now, whether it was two, three or five members, it doesn't matter, you're one team, I hope you're all great experts, and yes, you're here because you're in matter, but your job description in emergency. You know what, you can't do statistics anymore, so how was four, five years ago? This is real-time statistics. So no one alive expected what happened to Kovid to happen and that's where the huge money went. Why has transit traffic increased through Serbia? Because there's a lot of roads, because a lot of bridges have been made, and we're benefiting from transit, not just charging ramps and tolls, but buying fuel, something has to eat, somewhere to sleep, etc. So, the respected members of the Council, whom you represent, the President or the Chief as they call you, the Fiscal Council must do a little bit more work and that your voice is heard, not to be that voice of yours just that there is no etc. But you say, "This is what this country is doing now, not because we support it, but that a man may know whether it works well; it is seen to his neighbour; do not be seen, but it says: "Look at him as he does, and I also do well." How many average salaries were in the states, the former who made Yugoslavia, as much as they do today, as much as we do today, and that based on the number of residents this country has given the most help, I will not say subsidy, to those who did not work during Kovid and those who had to close their shops. And one more thing to tell you, we need to prepare that this is going to take a few more years. There is no expert who will say – hey, you know what, break up July of the month, there are great heats. And that's what they told us, so then the cold will eat Kovid, and that's what they told us, it didn't happen, etc. None of you, and for all of you it is important, did not say – citizens, please be vaccinated. Now raise your hand, you who sit up there, who are vaccinated. There you all are. Excuse me, excuse me. Here's Popovic. He didn't raise his hand. Oh, you did. Okay. So you're an example, if you don't vaccinate 40% of the citizens in Serbia, then there will be bankruptcy, those 40% will infect those who received the vaccine, as it happens with mild symptoms, but they don't go to work. If they don't go to work then they have sick leave that isn't like pay. This factory cannot produce quantity and norm to respect, and norm when you do not respect the European buyer replaces you with another supplier. So I hope you don't mind me telling you, that's well-meaning. So wherever you are, say, please, you're inoculating yourself, because of your children, because of your family, because of those you love, and because of your personal standard, your economic standard. It's very difficult when the death toll, for example. In Jagodina, 70 people died in 40 days, and I knew 60 personally, and we could all say, you know, what, let it go, what a vaccine, what a disease, etc. This is a very serious thing. It's dying of this. She's dying. I'd like you to answer that the global economic crisis is coming unremembered, for your generation and my generation, and I'm a little younger than you are for 20 years, but it doesn't matter, I've reduced a little bit, maybe a little less. But I've always followed, you know what the situation in Europe is, which is the country's most in charge, why the factories of strong economic power states, from the EU, are dislocated. Be careful, when German factories began to come to Serbia, they gave us the recognition that Serbia is the safest country, the euro course is still, economic stability, peace in the Balkans, international popularity and there are people in Serbia who want to work. For example, a German factory, Fisher, came to Jagodin, which is the fifth-largest economic power in Germany, while in Serbia total German factories employ 72 thousand workers. The Germans, the Italians, will not suffer that 50% of the people don't work and go to sick leave, even though they realize that the disease that's very severe and dangerous is both with them and with us, but we're the first country to have four vaccines, you know, four vaccines and we haven't been vaccinated. Here, the other day in Jagodina there were meetings, there was Petar Petkovic, director of the KIM Office, and we invited people who were displaced and living in the Pomorava County and I asked them who you were, raise your hand who wasn't vaccinated, 25 of them didn't vaccinate, and I asked them to vaccinate and do you agree, I say I call the doctor, we have four vaccines, of them 25, 20 accept, three of them faint when they saw the needle, and they didn't vaccinate, one of them consulted the son and didn't, but 16 of them were vaccinated. You know, we're public figures suggestive of people, but by example, when you say my whole family has been vaccinated, we're asking you to vaccinate. When it comes to state review, let me tell you every control that was in Jagodina, we learned something, but there is something called non-purpose spent funds in the budget and another term is irregularity. Now that you say the funds have been wrongly spent, that means it can be corrected. Then you get caught by the media and you understand, what did they put in our favor? For 14 years, we've been sending our children to sea for 4th and 8th grade and paying from the city's budget. Why didn't we call a tender for a teacher to take those children from Jagodina to the sea? We're breaking up a tender and a Belgrade school teacher is picking up. How's he gonna lead those kids? The state auditor today says you're right, but the law is. Then, they say there was a flood, and a state of emergency, we had to do disinfection, deratization and disinfection, and you didn't list the kind of reptiles, whether they were small rats or big, rodents, I say rats. Do you understand me?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9787	Mr. Markovic, if you'll excuse me, just in time, you've already spent one more minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9788	Look, since it's coordination and they go to JS, after three days and it doesn't matter, we have a car that doesn't drive, and it says, you haven't assigned a driver, a criminal application, so it says, you've shared propaganda material, and what's the criterion, and we haven't determined anything, maybe for 20,000 dinars, you understand? We have 15 cards, phone numbers, cell numbers, and by what criteria you've given it, seven times was the man who's an accountant in the party, that he's making a statement, and that these are some remarks where the media gets to you. Seven people paid 80,000 to 100,000 dinars for this. Do you understand? Please, State Auditors, if anything is not in accordance with the law, and that logic is sometimes stronger than law and practice that you object to those who pass the law and who propose laws to change those laws. I'd like the head of the Fiscal Council to answer to me first, and after that, I'd like to protect the competition from these suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9789	I thank you for your exposure, Mr. Markovic. The word is from the esteemed Mr. Pavle Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9790	First, it's a matter of a major economic crisis. For now, it's true, there's a lot of uncertainty. You don't know what's gonna happen. Is the bastard going to extend, that's one part, is this recovery in the world... It's just this week's meeting of the International Monetary Fund. In short, it's uncertain both the monetary fund and the World Bank now have this very week, they're discussing it. The answers are different. There's now a dilemma between inflation that's starting to increase, and with us it's starting to increase. Otherwise, it's 5.7%, Mrs. Tomic, with us, which is in September, which is already quite a bit. On the other hand, whether to stop inflation and then stop economic activity. To me, since these general analyses don't seem to be preparing a major economic crisis, I'd rather say the uncertainty is great. What would be the message from the corner of the Fiscal Council? It is to approach the budget planning cautiously for next year, to go more modestly, so that space is left, as it was in 2021, that if it strikes again something that we can rebalance and spend it without entering ahead with some major deficit. In borrowing, you know, our borrowing is approaching 60% of the country's income. It's not much for developed countries, but for us it's a lot, because we pay double the interest rates compared to them. So I give 60% when we're in debt it's in terms of paying the interest twice as much as when they're in debt. That's why we should start to reduce this debt gradually, to some level 50 and below, and that's exactly what happened from 2015 to 2017. Debt was about 71% or 72% down to 53% in 2019 and now that the crisis hit we had room to... You asked where that came from, from which items in the budget to respond to the crisis. So it reacted by making budget rebalances and instead of the deficit being small, and now the deficit was large, and justifiably large, because it was supposed to respond to the health crisis and react to the economic crisis. Why could it have been done? Because before that, the debt fell to something like 50%. So it became that space. That's why it takes that debt again to reduce, that when it does the next crisis we have space. If we hit a crisis now, it would throw us to 70%, like anything else that throws, but then for those countries like us and the environment, the interest rates would rise sharply. In that sense, we advocate these restrictions.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9791	I thank you, Mr. Petrovich. The word has been given by Ambassador Dragan D. Markovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9792	You see, 75% of the state was in charge of the head of the population. (Pavel Petrovic: On arrival. According to gross domestic product, 73% per GDP. All right. Where did that money go from that borrowing? Is that when that money was directed at building objects of vital importance? No, they're not. You know, there's something called the justification of spent funds. When the state of emergency is then there must be a certain tolerance, because you as a state institution when you issue a statement, I say again, you reduce the budget of the Republic of Serbia where someone sitting there in the IMF says -- here, the Fiscal Council has good analysis and statistics and they say no longer should be in debt to the Republic of Serbia. You know, it's a state of emergency now, except you can't see it. It's not as extraordinary as during the war, but, you say, something else might hit us. Well, here, yesterday, Kosovo Albanians tried to banish Serbs and scare them from going to the polls on Sunday, but attacked the naked Serbs, to the teeth of armed Kosovo police officers ROSU, with long pipes, who had no right to enter the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the northern part without the consent of four mayors etc. And that something tomorrow will cost, preparation, defense from that aggressor who doesn't rest by day or night. Do you understand? So, the Fiscal Council, when something like that happens, such as the crown, such as some blow, not some, but often happens in Kosovo and Metohija, we have to finance Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, because if these Serbs all come to Serbia, then the story with the territory belonging to Serbia under Resolution 1244 is finished and Serbia will never recognise as an independent state. We didn't understand each other at first, but that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9793	I thank the Honorable President of the Single Serbia Parliament Club, Dragan Markovic Palma. This concludes this part of the discussion. In accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure... The word is Mr. Nebojsa Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9794	Thank you. With regard to your question, I would say that the Competition Protection Commission is certainly acting in accordance with the Competition Protection Act, which clearly and precisely requires the competences and powers of the Competition Protection Commission. What I could recognize your question concerns what I really mentioned in the report, which is an increasing accent in the Commission's work on conducting certain analyses. So, by looking at the analysis, which we and the law are empowered to do, because Article 47, and it's prescribed when price movements or other circumstances can signal that there could be distortions, restrictions or prevention of competition, then the Commission can conduct sectoral analyses. The result of such sectoral analysis must not always be the initiation of proceedings, but often happens that the Commission makes certain recommendations as to what should be changed possibly in the regulations and in some other acts in order to ensure competition on the market, rather than protecting competitors from each other and precisely in accordance with that, I wrote down what you said, if the Commission considers that there could indeed be some kind of behaviour in which there are features of something that the law has prescribed, it certainly merits the attention and work of the Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9795	Thank you. The word is Dragan Markovic Palm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9796	Be careful not to apply the law to a gentleman of the agricultural producer only when he has to pay taxes, go to the vote and join the army. Do you understand? That's how it used to be. So now you've given me an answer like you did during Tito's time. You know, when these friends and friends talk for two hours, if you didn't bring someone out with you, when you go out, you don't know what he said. Who's protecting Mr. Farmer? It says "protection of competition". Your job. Because he's having a problem with competition. Right? So I expect you to say -- here, we're going to ask to expand our job description, to see how we can help and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9797	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9798	First of all, you didn't have a question. Although you've been commenting, that's what you said last year. (Dear Markovic: Well, nothing has changed. ) No, we will not see that in the revision process if it has changed. I can't see it like this. (Dragan Markovic: This is not generally for Jagodina, but for all other institutions in Serbia. All right, I just remembered last year that you were saying that a Belgrade school took away I don't know... We checked, she didn't take it. I can do that. (Dragan Markovic: Well, it's not because we didn't call the tender, and you punished us 100 grand for not calling the tender. I don't know what it is now. This is not such a big remark that you can remember the details of the report, but in any case it encourages you to mention that even in the first part of this section, when it comes to the guides that it is prescribed in the law, and the law has been passed by you, and it is up to me to the state auditors to apply that law. When we give the initiative to change some laws, keep in mind that this is how the revision process was established, and in that sense we agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9799	Now we've all really agreed. Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87, I hereby set a regular break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9800	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word is Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9801	Dear Vice President, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, after a very dynamic, exciting debate this afternoon, I hope we can discuss the reports a little more calmly this afternoon, and there's something to discuss. The reports are complete, systematic and each of us can see what our independent state bodies have done. Why am I stressing this? First, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, I welcome the decision to discuss these reports at the tide. Why? So far, until about two, three years ago, these reports have only been discussed on boards. This way, when debated in the tide, all MPs can say what they think about the work of these organs, and the general public can see what independent state bodies are doing. Secondly, independent state authorities are young authorities, there are just over ten years. They are the fruit of accepting EU legal fluids. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, as a party that is the heritage of European integration, and it is our desire to be a member of the EU, to arrange Serbia, to arrange it, to create a modern Serbia, a country where each body, every single person, is aware of the competences of each one, and that each one carries part of the responsibility for his work. By putting this on the agenda, we're also giving a new policy to our National Assembly. In fact, we also affirm the work of your organs in a transparent way, so that everyone can see what you're doing. What I am particularly emphasising, which is the fact that you are independent in your work, that you are independent and that you have the opportunity to make your views public. If we agree with those views, we can discuss it. That is why you are serving, that you have different opinions and different opinions, and that, with arguments, with the exchange of views, we come up with the best solutions, not to be solutions between independent bodies and MPs, or committees, but to better arrange the country, to better arrange Serbia, to have directions where we are going and to become an orderly EU member tomorrow. I don't know, maybe we won't be a member of the EU soon, but we'll be an orderly country. It's better for all of us, and that's why as a member of the Social Democratic Party, I support your work and you know it very well. I've always supported your work on every committee and given you the opportunity to say what you think. I'll look first at the DRI work. I regularly follow the work of the DRI and follow very closely. True, I can't read your reports in detail, there are many of them, and I've always pointed out to you that I love some of your reports, a more modern approach to this job. That's what I'm going to say at the end of the presentation about your work, because a lot of data, I am a mathematician, but all those numbers are hard to remember and keep in mind. I see your development and I appreciate your development. I see how you mature. I can see how you're getting better. I can see how you're modernizing yourself and that's what I want to point out. You wrote in your report that you had your own vision. I'll tell you right now, you've pointed out that you're independent top auditors. That's right. No one can tell you who you're going to look at, what you're going to look at, what the subject is. That's what you decide for yourself. You know, freedom doesn't get right away, it gets there. You have thus obtained this freedom and I ask you to keep it, for you work according to the laws of the National Assembly. You have to apply them consistently. There's another kind of active role to play, to point out what defects are, and I'll say something about that later. You said, "You have a mission." Yeah, and why do you have one? Well, you have reliable professional information. You know, when I read your report and those numbers when I see them, I know they're reliable, that they're not written because someone would like it, but because they are who they are. And to fulfill that, please, you must have knowledge, expertise, professionalism, commitment and hard work. You know, I'm comparing your work to mining work, except you don't mining but financial business audits, business regularity audits, financial business audits, conduct business regularity audits and conduct business performance audits. These are your products, and they're very important, they're very important. Sometimes it seems that it's much easier to calculate the bitcoin than to get to some of these audits. It's really a long and hard work that you do. Why am I stressing that? Because of the fact that we in the public sector still have irresponsible behaviour, according to costs, according to public funds records. To be clear, it's about ignorance, intricacies, lack of internal control, internal audits. Next, you don't say, we have internal control of internal audits. Furthermore, what we don't say - we have an indignity of the rules in the area of financial business, inconsistency, and even inconsistencies. Some regulations have not even been passed, and they are necessary. You always stress that and that is why it is very good that we have frequent meetings, outside-seat meetings, outside of Belgrade, where in different conditions we can look at the situation. We had a meeting last year in a place near Novi Sad, and in public it was that we were spending state money, the media were malicious. The meeting wasn't open-minded. Why? Well, we're talking about shortcomings, we're talking about what we're going to fix in laws, there were members of the Finance Committee, the DRI, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and other ministries. Our job is to see what's wrong with our regulations to propose next year that these regulations change, that the laws change. That's why we exist. That's why you exist. It was abused in some means of information as if MPs were spending state resources and that one-night stand and two-day stay was paid by one-sided foundation, while we worked all day long. I have to point that out. I'm not going to talk about numbers, you're talking about numbers in detail, because your work is visible, you're going out with specific numbers. Where do we have the most drawbacks? You know, it's in property records and public procurement. Regardless, we are changing the Public Procurement Act, perfecting commissions and everything else, and we are really trying to do better, but we are in a situation where irregularities are finally repeated. For example, in the conclusion of the contract, we have irregularities in 3.9 billion dinars. Or, in the execution of the contract, we have irregularities of 6.7 billion dinars. It's a huge asset. Even bigger problems arise when we talk about state property, state property. You know, you have that property somewhere around 100 and 40 and something billion. It is simply incomprehensible that certain local communities, AP or republics often do not know what their property is. They don't have it listed. Individuals use illegal state property, do not pay rent if they have business premises, etc. So what you're mining and what you find, you're doing it in one way that's really good. First of all, you look preventive, you look at it, you say where the mistakes are, you educate, you warn, and you only ultimately suggest punishment. These first three steps, preventive, education and warning is good. However, we are such that we need to be punished sometimes, not often. Without some drastic penalties, be assured that we will not be able to preserve the state property and to deal responsibly with public funds. You know, state property and public funds are uncut to me, it's sacred. Each of us has to keep it safe, he has to take care of it and be confident that you will have full support for what you do and how you do it. I have to tell you next. The state audit institution is doing its job very well, I stress, very well, growing into a strong independent institution with a reputation in the Republic of Serbia. Keep that reputation, don't gamble it, especially stressing the independence you have, and I will always give you full support, to hire young people, to modernise yourself, to have a better information escort, which is necessary in these times. I want to tell you some remarks, but they won't be critical. I would like your information to be more public, if you were more present, even if you had a more aggressive approach to the public, the "pi-ar" service, for the simple reason that the conclusions and attitudes you come to are very important. I would also like to see complex financial audits, for an ordinary man it's very difficult and complex, simplify, adapt language, make it understandable for everyone, and that it is, of course, consistent with the truth. I expect you to take the next step, which is not only to make these audits, but also to make those proposals to protect the state property. Your analysis, for example, of the use of official cars that it was, etc., to highlight how to prevent the abuse of all these institutes. You're always close to real life, and I'd like that life to be in your reports a lot more, of course, simplified, so that an ordinary citizen can understand. I respect and appreciate you working on your international affirmation. Likewise, what you have done and what you are doing to record the objectives of sustainable development. I expect that we will have a broad and large debate and that we will talk about it in the next period. But I wish you success in your work. I'll be critical, but we'll do it in four eyes, or on the board, we'll talk about some of the things I'm thinking about telling you. Now there's something I want to say to the fiscal council. You know, I've been following the fiscal council since the very establishment. When you started working in 2011, I read, followed, and followed. I'll say you do your job well, you're credible, you're all experts whose scientific and professional biographies are truly remarkable for our country. I respect that. I appreciate that. I would like to stress that you are also an independent state body, under one. Two, you're responsible to the National Assembly. I also stress that you are responsible for the National Assembly. Do I always agree with your views? That's what I say on the Finance Committee. No, I don't. Am I always right? I didn't. Are you always right? You're not. Are you in most cases right? Yes, it is. I respect that. I may not get along at some point, but I will always fight and argue that you have the right to state your views and have a controversy. It is yours to advise, to give views, and politics and politicians, it is the National Assembly that will do their job properly. I know you're scientists, you're using a conservative method, but life goes much faster forward, life is more complex and often requires quick reaction for some things, it has to react and, of course, these reactions are often good, sometimes bad. No matter how much we disagree sometimes, it is important that Serbia is a financially stable country, that it has arranged finances, that it has good finances. If nothing, it showed the Kovid-19 crisis. Everything that has been done until then has made it really easier for us to endure this crisis. The crisis, as we used to say, is uncertain, we don't know what's waiting for us, we need to be careful. I have to tell you that somewhere along the way, following your work, since 2014, there have been major disagreements between the views of the Fiscal Council and governmental measures and fiscal policies. Since 2014, there has been a strong consensus, I stress. The result of this great agreement, what you have proposed, and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done and done on financial consolidation, and then when the Prime Minister was Alexander Vukic and everything we have done, it has been done so that we have good and arranged finances. No one can argue with that. This is not disputed by relevant international institutions either. You are, and what I keep stressing and repeating over and over again, and that's a fact, you know, we've introduced fiscal rules. They respect each other, they have to be respected. I call them black lines, and when you're not there, when we talk about the budget and when the finance minister is here, I always say that, they're black lines that you can't go through. You know, for Serbia the way it is, such a degree of development, it's good for the fiscal deficit to be up to one percent of GDP. For me it's a little bit, I wish it was 0.5%, but you have to know by following these rules we had a budget surplus in 2018, 2019, which didn't happen very long. It's really a very good result. Furthermore, the general debt of the state to be up to 60% of GDP. I say, and in public there are, you know, some have 120, for Serbia as it is, up to 60% is sustainable. We're not gonna get in a situation where we're in a difficult situation again. About the salary, about the pensions I have to point out that we agree here, it's a little bit about pensions, we're here at 10 points and something, we're a little higher around the salary, over 7% of GDP, now we're a 10 point something, but it's a very difficult crisis, and I think that this budget and our finances can hold. What we did and what we do, and that's capital investment. I remember when capital investment was up to 2%. Now it's 5.3%, and that capital investment on highways, roads and what's new in this budget is 120m euros for water purifiers, municipal infrastructure, all that we need. You know, these investments are investments in the future. That way we have GDP growth, in fact, last year we had the smallest drop, right, minus one percent, now we have 6% and more than 6%. The World Bank forecasts 6.5%. I know that you as the Fiscal Council said in November last year that we were going to 4%, but 6% of these additional investments are safe and can even be more. You know, Kovid 19, the crisis we're having, she's disrupted a lot of things. It's extorted and justified. You agreed to that. Even in my discussion of one of the rebalances, I said – every investment in healthcare is justified, in the health of citizens in this difficult crisis to survive and that is what has been done. That's why we haven't had a drastic decline in GDP, a stalemate in everything, but we're moving on. Speaking of this, let me tell you right now that the investments in health care are good and should continue. But I see that time is already coming out, and I just want to say one more word, and that's vaccination. The only way out of the crisis will be if Serbia's citizens are healthy, Serbia's citizens are vaccinated, we will win Kovid 19 and then we will be in a situation. I don't mind your criticism. You know, our people's proverb says, "When it's best to put a stone in a shoe, let it sting you and always warn you." One more thing, I haven't talked about these two commissions, about energy and competition, don't mind me, good reports and the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will vote for these reports and be assured that we will always follow your work, support but ask you to be responsible for the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9802	Thank you. The next is MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9803	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of the Agency and the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are on the agenda of today's session and a united discussion of four reports on the work of various independent agencies and councils for the past year. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group – "Three P" in the voting day after this debate will decide and decide whether to vote for all reports or to hold some. At the beginning of today's debate, I would like first to commend the fact that today these four reports on the work of independent agencies for the past year, which is why we as the National Assembly meet part of our obligations in the process of controlling their work, and these materials provide interesting information about some aspects of our social and economic life that are not so visible to the general public. The report on the Commission's work on competition protection shows that it managed to reduce the number of cases in 2020 and that the largest number of procedures in the Commission were in the areas of telecommunications, trade, IT sector and chemical industry. As can be seen, Commission workers have managed to reduce the number of cases transferred in all kinds of procedures before it, while in their work they also make revenue in their business of 173 million dinars, which will be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I think it is far more important that this Commission has taken appropriate measures by registering in a few dozen cases, trying to create illegal agreements that would cause far greater damage on the domestic market by creating cartels or monopolys. In his report, the Fiscal Council referred us to and repeated its suggestions and seeing macroeconomic opportunities and certain segments that this institution had already individually referred to us in a broad range during the previous year, and depending on personal or party attitudes, we can or should not agree on these analyses. So we in our PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" certainly welcome the physical position of the Fiscal Council that it is necessary to increase the amount of pensions, but of course they would disagree with the criticism of the one-time payment of financial assistance to pensioners, socially endangered and institutions that have been unable to achieve their results because of the crown of the virus. When we talk about the position of the Fiscal Council that pension needs to be increased, we see all the shortages of the Swiss formula on the harmonisation of pensions that constantly reduces the average pension from the average salary. Therefore, the PUPS formula – "Tri P" pensions are accompanied by the best solution and it is necessary to amend the PIO Act in due time in accordance with the agreement between Serbian President, Mr Vukic and PUPS President, Mr Milan Krkobibic. When we talk about the pension account, then we need to know that the pension is made out of a working relationship, and that the same economic category is and then it is clear that the formula PUPS – "Tri P" is the most real. Dear friends, dear colleagues, tomorrow we'll all be who we are or we're not retired and then we'll insist that pensions follow pay. The position of PUPS to install into the law a safeguard mechanism which, in the case of pensions falling below a certain percentage, for example 60%, is an extraordinary adjustment of pensions and thus prevents a drastic decline as we now have, because the Swiss formula constantly reduces the average pension of the average wage, which is certainly not good for pensioners, but also for those of us who decide. Once again, I would like to highlight President Vukic's promise at the meeting of the PUPS General Committee, that everything will be done to improve the Swiss formula, which will eventually reach the PUPS proposal – "Tri P", i.e. pensions following wages. I personally believe that the Fiscal Council will also support that formula from economics, but above all from those social needs for our oldest citizens. Regardless of all this, the Fiscal Council has reasoned its views and, in addition to timely evaluations of the draft budget, their rebalancing and the final accounts of earlier budgets, it has fully fulfilled its legal obligation. Within its competence, the Energy Agency has issued 68 different licences for the operation of operators in the fields of production, transmission, supply of different types of energy, from electricity to bio-fuels. I believe that her views have now proved to be good, as Serbia is not in some major crisis regarding these energy or electricity production. From the data that the number of complaints to the Administrative Court in these proceedings was only seven in 2020, and compared to 14 in 2019, we see that the Agency's work in the past year has been better quality. In addition to this data on direct work, the Agency's report also shows some positive energy policy parameters, where I would point out that the total production of electricity in Serbia in 2020 has been increased, and that the largest in the last four years. It is also very positive that electricity generation from renewable sources is growing, such as wind power plants, but it is not good that we still have a significant percentage of energy loss in the transmission and distribution network, although it remained at a lower level than in some previous years and decades. The length of the gas distribution network was increased by about 600km last year, which shows that an increasing number of citizens and businesses see the advantage of gas as a clean and cheaper energy. It certainly remains for us to work in the future to encourage these activities in energy and gain increasing importance in the context of environmental protection. The last in line of today's agenda is the DRI report. It is an extremely important independent institution with the primary objective of controlling the spending of public funds and accounting documents of various state bodies and legal entities using these funds. It is commendable that we can see that the DRI made an effort in the last year to implement all planned audit processes, despite the crown problems, and that the result of these processes was found to have dropped from 441 to 376 billion dinars in the financial reports. What can worry us on the other hand from these reports is that, at the same time, a significant increase in the category of registered business irregularities, whose total amount jumped from 10 billion from the previous report to 130 billion in the present one. The report shows that almost all of these irregularities of 128.96 billion dinars were found in different segments of the procurement process, and that this increase comes exclusively from there, while the amounts of irregularities in income and receipts and expenditures even decreased compared to previous reports. This information is certainly not pleasant, but since 1 July 2020 new Public Procurement Act has been in force and should speed up and simplify public procurement procedures, so the next DRI report will show what concrete effects it has given at the beginning of its application. If the overall quality of the evaluations is seen for the reports of the audit entities, we see that it is largely unchanged, i.e. that then positive opinions are far above negative, this time, 35 to four, and that there are always most of those opinions given with the reserve, this time, even 98. I have to say, it's a good thing that even at the level of the users of the Republic and the province's budget, there have been no negative opinions given on the work of those bodies on two occasions. It could be considered that, in this case, a principled position is taken that when the DRI issues a negative opinion on the reports of the managers of these bodies, public undertakings and institutions must bear political responsibility and be removed from those positions, because a negative opinion means that these are already very drastic and systematic irregularities in accounting and business, rather than those which are controversial, of minor importance and resulting from accidental errors and ignorance, which are addressed by issuing recommendations and their implementation. This part shows that the largest number of recommendations issued are mostly implemented in practice, and that significant savings from public funds that are more than a billion dinars in total have been achieved and certainly exceed the budget appropriations granted for the annual work of the DRI, thus showing the importance of its role and in some purely financial sense. In addition to its basic activity, the DRI also cited a number of recommendations in this report and drew attention to numerous practical problems and legal gaps in the public finances system and their resolution should be addressed by the entities to whom these recommendations are addressed. The honourable MPs, in the end, can conclude that these reports faithfully depict the work of independent state institutions to the greatest extent possible, and besides that our colleagues in the relevant assembly committees have already given their positive assessment by giving positive conclusions on them. In particular, I would like to stress that all four cases in all balance sheets and successes have found positive results without loss, and the planned expenditures have been achieved in less scope than was planned with the budget and their financial plans, as well as both domestic and rational business in the previous difficult year should be commended and welcomed. Dear People's MPs, our PUPS Group – "Three P" will, as I have already announced, give its support to these reports, and we give full support to these institutions and employees in them for future work, with a desire to be even more constructive and quality in the future. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9804	I thank Mr. Stosic. The next is MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9805	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear representatives of independent regulatory bodies, respected representatives of the board, first of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the committee for the inaugural comprehensive presentation and I would like to say at the outset that the SPS Group will support all four reports. There was a question here a little while, I think my colleague Zukorlic is, I'm sorry he's not here right now, the issue of consistency. If you're consistent, vote against it. It's not about us voting against it. It is our duty to strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies, of course to discuss reports of independent regulatory bodies, that everyone has their own level of responsibility, that I spoke about it for a little while, and to see if they respect the law. Not to ask independent regulatory bodies to enter the political ring, because they are independent and should not do so, and not to ask to interpret the law as we wish, because it would not be correct again. But certainly neither independent regulatory bodies on the other hand should always bear in mind their level of responsibility and what they are procedurally your obligations and that through your reports and analyses that we are very often looking forward to and reading, and we are analysing you do not define certain things through a kind of politicization. If someone wants to deal with politics, get out of an independent regulatory body, start a political party and participate in the elections. It's very simple. Then you see how much your citizens value you and how much you don't. Now, you answer to the Assembly, because we chose you and I don't think for one moment, on the contrary, I think this is an opportunity when we talk about reports of independent regulatory bodies, that this is an opportunity and that we talk about and analyze your reports, to exchange opinions, views, certain suggestions and suggestions, but I also say we don't want to and we don't intend to put pressure on the work of independent regulatory bodies. We believe that these discussions are useful and not only at the Committee meetings, because many of us are not members of the board, so they are not in a position to participate in the work, but right here in the tide. It is our obligation, above all, to our and your obligation to the citizens of Serbia. And they don't have to, of course, always agree with us, they don't always have to be our same attitudes, because if attitudes were always the same, then the question would be, at all, the existence of independent regulatory bodies. So, I said four reports today are ahead of us and it has become a practice and we think it's a good thing that the National Assembly is also choosing independent organs and bodies regularly at plenary sessions to discuss work reports. I consider this plenary debate a new quality, primarily in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the work of the body, because open two-way communication represents, above all, the continuity of the monitoring and control of the work of these bodies and bodies, which provides regular and transparent reporting, as I said, to the public about what is important. And it is important that we report to the public, in fact, especially when we talk about what life issues are, and many of the analyses of certain independent regulatory bodies, which are related in 2020, are precisely life issues, bearing in mind the fact that since March of the month, unfortunately we are faced with the greatest health challenge, as well as the whole world. So all that could be seen in the report is precisely the life issues of citizens of individual independent regulatory bodies. I'll talk about it, of course. The introduction of regulators and independent authorities into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia thus confirms, above all, the implementation of the international standards and standards of the European Union for whose membership is fully defined by our country. Regulators are also part of the democratisation, above all, our society and the condition of further strengthening of the rule of law, and thus the openness of the state authorities to each form of public control, primarily to control the legality of the spending of public funds, which is, in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group, of the utmost importance, that is, the resources of all taxpayers, which strengthens the government's obligation to target these funds in strategic priority developmental directions and to realise above all that is particularly important to us, as social policy and social function of the state. All four reports on the agenda today are of paramount importance and importance. Their assessment and the state of the proposal of the measures for the sector that cover, the National Assembly, through reviewing these reports, realizes its, as I said, control function, and any control of work can always only contribute to the new quality of work and independent regulatory bodies, and perhaps also us representatives of citizens, MPs. I will, this time as chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, with all due respect to other representatives of independent regulatory bodies, but given the time, look back at two reports. The colleagues will speak in the follow-up of today's session on the remaining two reports of independent bodies. First of all, I mean the Fiscal Council and the DRI, the 2020 reports. As far as the Fiscal Council is concerned, at the outset, we've clearly defined some things. I don't want to go back to that. I believe that every subsequent report will be adopted, not electronically, not online, but as it is procedurally defined. But that's what we've talked about. I don't want to talk about it again. The report itself, I carefully read it, is comprehensive, rests on the law-set work of this independent body, whose mission is to assess credibility, above all fiscal policies from the aspect of compliance with fiscal rules, to provide the public with fiscal policy. That's absolutely not controversial. Let us also remind that with its independent analyses of fiscal policy and expert approach, the Fiscal Council should improve the culture of fiscal responsibility in the Republic of Serbia. In this respect, the Fiscal Council, as it stands out in the law, clearly, which was referred to by a representative of the Fiscal Council, analyses the macroeconomic and fiscal assumptions on which the documents are based, gives an independent and credible assessment of economic policy, assesses fiscal risks, etc. So the Fiscal Council has significant, I would say, powers which consequently involve the expertise and responsibility of this body. Although in earlier discussions on the report, I did not agree with everything, and we disagreed with the evaluations of the Fiscal Council, we had completely opposite views, I can't say that the Fiscal Council didn't work. That's not what we're gonna say. With a number of assessments and findings for the 2020 report, they can fully agree. For example, in the previous year's report, the Fiscal Council positively assessed co-operation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, realizing that it was good, that it took place through the work of the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending. Also, co-operation with the government's representatives, the finance ministry, according to the Fiscal Council's assessment was good. We fully agree here, regardless of the views expressed in the debate and in the discussions. The Fiscal Council also praised in practice the new National Assembly calling on the adoption of the Republic's final budget account, including that it is an important link in the budgetary process, which it certainly is. We agree, because this is a key form of parliamentary control and how the planned budgetary, i.e. public funding of the general government is spent. The fact is that the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget have not been considered in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 2003 and that the current Parliament Speaker Ivica Dacic has returned the obligation to consider and adopt the republic's final budget accounts since the start of this call. The final accounts are very important because the picture of the revenue achieved, but also the expenditure of the budget during the year. They explicitly show whether the budgeted funds have been spent in accordance with the Budget Law, i.e. in accordance with the rebalance. Consideration of the final accounts of the budget is a significant but legal form of the parliamentary control of the fiscal policy carried out by the government. On the other hand, the examination of the final accounts and the report on the work of independent authorities and regulators strengthens, above all, the control function of parliament and confirms that the Assembly is not a place to vote alone, but is a place where serious debates are being held on important social and state issues and issues. As a positive budgetary trend in 2020, the Fiscal Council has singled out that public investment in infrastructure is not reduced under the Kovid crisis. We fully agree with this finding. It is an economic premise that without capital investment of infrastructure projects there is no economic development. Serbia is investing heavily in road infrastructure, highways are being built, railways are being reconstructed, money has been allocated to build a sewage and water network in many cities and municipalities. In doing so, we cannot help but affirm the government’s health policy, primarily in view of the global health crisis caused by Kovid – 19. When I talk about health care, huge money has been allocated for vaccines, and Serbia has also allocated significant funds for health infrastructure. Here, first of all, I mean the hospital in Batajnica, Novi Sad, and also the money for the reconstruction of clinical centres, both in Belgrade and Vojvodina. In addition, the current investment is the construction of a vaccine factory. All of this is of immeasurable importance in the fight against the pandemic, because the health of citizens has no price and I would take advantage of the opportunity to call once again all the citizens, who have not done so far, to be vaccinated. It's the only way to get out and deal with the health challenge we're facing together. In particular, when it comes to infrastructure projects, the government has allocated the 2020 budget to never again, 330 billion dinars, and a rebalance of 88 billion dinars. That 330, that's when you add about 17.2% of gross social product. No, I'm sorry, I'm wrong, 335.5% of gross social product. My mistake, I'm sorry. I am fully convinced that the government will manage to realise, although you were a little pessimistic when we talked about that projected rate of 6% gross social product, the International Monetary Fund now says it will be about 6.5%, and I am convinced of what the finance minister was talking about, that we will be able to realise the projected rate of around 7%. I fully agree with this finding of yours regarding infrastructure, because there is no economic without infrastructure development. But imagine now, if we had made one parallel, that everything in Serbia cared about during the pandemic period and that life had stopped during the pandemic period, that we had closed the Assembly, that we were working online, that we had closed the government, that the president of the state worked from his cabinet or from home, would we have realised infrastructure projects? Why am I saying this? Well, you had three members and you couldn't organize a session because of the pandemic, and we're talking about the funds from January to November of last year and the total investment made by 146.7 billion dinars, which is 14.7% higher than the same period of the previous year. So he can't and can't stop life in Serbia. To be perfectly honest, with the salaries paid by independent regulatory bodies, you could organize extremely high-quality conditions, far better than those we have here in the Assembly, to hold a session of three members. But, well, I'm saying, that's what we've been talking about. In these estimates, therefore, I fully agree with the Fiscal Council. In previous discussions on reports, we also had disagreements between parliamentarians with the assessments of individual independent authorities given in their reports. I personally saw this as an exchange of views that should contribute to the new quality of our society's order, not as exclusion and intolerance. There are differences in our views when it comes to this fiscal council report. I would like to cite the key criticism that the Fiscal Council has made in its analysis, which we do not fully agree with as a Parliament club. I'll try to explain the reasons. As a top critic, the Fiscal Council carried out a 100-euro measure in its analysis to every full-time citizen. Of course, it's legitimate for us to have a different view, the opposite of the Fiscal Council. This time we think that this government measure was completely economical and socially justified. The Serbian government has defined three pillars of development, and one of these pillars is exactly the standard of living of citizens, which has also been threatened by the Kovid 19 pandemic in the past. As the country's incentive measures have significantly mitigated the effects of Kovid on the economy, even for the least entrepreneurs, the state has also taken care of its citizens. The state of Serbia has not only singled out 100 euros in the previous year, but also paid pensioners 50 euros in one-off aid this year, and then all citizens on the National Employment Service's record received 60 euros in one-off aid, and not to mention further. Early next year, pensioners will receive another 20,000 dinars. The criticism of the Fiscal Council also referred to the increase in wages and pensions, but we cannot fully agree with these assessments either. So why do we feel that these measures affecting the increase in the standard of living of citizens are justified? Simply, higher wages mean higher consumption, higher consumption initiated by production, which improves the economic situation in the Serbian state, as more money is paid through taxes in the budget. I will provide concrete statistics to support the government's kovidi measures. First, despite the health crisis, both last and this year, the minimum labour price was increased. From 1 January, the minimum labour price is 6.6%, i.e. for about 2,000 dinars, so the minimum labour price for 2021 is 32,126 dinars. The minimum labour price in 2022 will be 35,012 dinars, an increase of 9.4%. The state increased salaries and pensions, pensions per Swiss model by 5.9%, public sector wages by 3.5% first and then 1.5%. The total increase in pensions between 2012 and 2021 was 30.9%. Now, when we talk about an increase in wages and pensions, when we talk about 100-euro measures, this measure was not invented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is a measure used by large world economies like the United States, and I think Japan used it as well. On the other hand, this is a measure that, according to the International Labour Organisation, contributes to poverty reduction. I'm sorry, but narrow professional policy is not a magic wand and it's easy to sit in a comfortable chair, analyze, make reports, deal with numbers, but when you go down among the people and see what a living policy is, it's something else. When you see if the people, whether the citizens are satisfied or not, it's something else. Now, that's what this government of the Republic of Serbia is working on and has the full support of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. So it leads primarily economic policy, but an economic policy that is socially responsible and an economic policy that has a human, an ordinary Serbian citizen, at the heart of Serbia, to provide Serbian citizens with a life worth living in the 21st century. I'm way out of time, aren't I? I won't be able to talk about the DRI report, but never mind, I'll just finish this sentence. As for the specific salary in the public sector, very often we talk about it, you are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you see these guys delivering the documentation. Have you ever wondered what their salary is? It's a shame to compare your salary to their salary. It's embarrassing! That's why we fully advocate that every dinar that's been saved is just heading towards an increase in wages and pensions. We keep talking about how our experts are leaving. So what kind of expert is going to stay in local self-government and do exactly the most responsible work, which is currently public procurement, to deal with public procurement for a salary of 45,000 or 50,000 dinars? No one will, believe me. That's why we're fully committed to raising wages and pensions, on the one hand. On the other hand, this is not an irresponsible, unserious move and a careless move by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government was not in charge of paying salaries and pensions as it was done during a previous period, but thanks primarily to the government's reform course, which was established in 2014, there was a healthy system based on sound foundations. I'm sorry I overstepped my time. I apologize to the representatives of independent regulatory bodies, but 20 minutes is a restriction. You'll certainly have our support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9806	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The next is MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, now I don't know what conclusion and report we should discuss and vote on, really. I must now also ask the President of the Energy Agency's Council and representatives of the Competition Protection Commission and the President of the State Auditing Institution – what application did you set out your proposals and reports? Did you use "Zum", "Viber", "Vocap", "Slip"? Is that what you were doing at the sessions? At the sessions. Well, then you're criminals, you didn't respect the anti-crisis measures of our headquarters to fight the crown of the virus. Neither did the National Assembly, and we were ambushed during that very period, shame on us. I just don't know if you were able to adopt that? Is that what your act allows? Because our acts allow us to adopt laws without attending sessions, to debate without being in this room. I don't think so. And everything else is a pale excuse. But, well, about that—then some other occasion. Perhaps in some part of my previous exposure, I was perhaps, by some, too sharp. I don't think so. Because each of these independent bodies here has their own role, their own meaning, and why the whole sense of why it even exists. For example, when it comes to the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, we cannot adopt the final account without the previous opinion of the State Auditing Institution. We can't. You know what, anyone else can give assessments, according to our Constitution, the Constitution, not the law, in the Constitution and the law, is the State Audit Authority the highest state body that can make recommendations and assessments to the National Assembly, the constitutional category. But we'll talk about it later. I haven't noticed in any of these organs that any of them are involved in politics. Everyone submitted their report, gave their grades, etc. We also have here a report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2020 and until point 8, that's what the report should contain. All it has to contain is to point 8. Now, when we look at points 8.1, 8.1.1, 8.3, there are 8.2, and 8.4, etc., I see here that there are again some opinions and views of the Fiscal Council that have already been sent to the National Assembly. We already have the data that's back in the report. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, do you know why that is? Again, some topics, which according to the evaluation of the Fiscal Council and their former, perhaps current co-workers, need to be re-politicalised, should again be current in political life. It was enough just to count. We sent you that report, that report, that report, that report. Why discuss again what we discussed in 2020? I really don't get it. But I guess that's some mantra president of the Fiscal Council, which, in my opinion, seems to be coming out of some of his own frames. So after that, we MPs are called when we say that our fiscal council is involved in politics and that in many cases it writes the most common political pamphlets. Here, I'm going to tell you what it looks like when you put something like a scientific, empirical, etc. Analysis, what it looks like, and how easily you can fool a man who doesn't understand himself too much in this matter or who doesn't want to just fall into what it says, but accepts everything for granted. Here's just one piece of information. Now I'm going to read you what the President of the Fiscal Council said. I don't mind saying correspondence academic SANU, a retired professor, absolutely, but when he's signed as chairman of the Fiscal Council for me, his interview, as well as something he's given to the National Assembly, is the same. So he says, "In our work on already long enough series of data from 2012 to 2017, we re-evaluate the reliability of official data on unusually high employment growth in Serbia from around 20%, which is reportedly due to low GDP growth of around 6%." So that was at the Business Forum on the Bath. Now I'm going to show you how we play data, and that's after those who declare it the personality of the year, NIN, "Time," etc., they copy all that data afterwards and always call on the Fiscal Council. It is said – 6% GDP growth from 2012 to 2017. Well, it's not like that. If we take the simplest arithmetic sequence they use, which they use, it says: "GDP growth in 2013 was 2.9%, in 2014 we have a 1.6% decline, so in 2015 growth is around 1.8%, in 2016. 3.3%, which is 6.4%." And according to the President of the Fiscal Council, that's, 6%, he stole 4%, but he says -- it's not much. What's real? That GDP in 2012 was 33 billion 679 million and that in 2016 it was 36 billion 779 million. If you take now, and as a student, it seems to me, the seventh grade of the elementary school, at least I went to, you say, you subtract that GDP 36 billion 779 million, as it was in 2016, reduce by 33 billion 679 million, as it was in 2012, you will get the amount that GDP growth was three billion 100 million euros, which is 9.2%. It's growth. Don't make me a percentage of the arithmetic sums. That's growth, that's the percentage of growth, not the sum. But we're gonna play with numbers, downplay everything we can. And then he says -- that the unemployment rate was high and that the rate is now up 20%. I was counting on not to bother our citizens, and what exactly is the percentage of employees between 2012 and 2014. Now we're getting into some grades. That a high employment growth rate without GDP growth, as in Serbia, is not happening anywhere near any other country in Central and Eastern Europe. It would have been okay if our fiscal council had taken another fact, another circumstance into account, I would have accepted, but it didn't. They do not say that fiscal consolidation measures are being implemented during this period and that the expenditures the state has had have been reduced. When the state saves, fiscal consolidation cannot be measured to reflect the real sector. It's impossible. It's pouring on each other. And if you have growth as you carry out fiscal consolidation measures, it is also natural to have an increase in employment, because the difference between the declines caused by fiscal consolidation measures and the current state of GDP must be built by someone, and they must be employed. Am I right or am I wrong and whether there are an exact number of employees in Serbia or not? I'm just saying, in 2012, GDP was 33,679,000,000, and in 2020, 46 billion, and planned, close to its achievement for 2021, 52,417,000,000. What's the difference? The difference is 19 billion. How much is that in percent? I think it's about 56%, maybe I'm wrong. How come now? We have an increase in the number of employees, which is about 25%, and GDP growth is 56%. How now? In those ten years. What's wrong with that? Why are we reducing it? Why do certain amounts, the exact data, we look at differently? We can do this next time. The rating, also found here, to help 100 euros given to the new RS, is again the Gilas portal, on July 26th 2020. The president of the Fiscal Council says that in order to pay 100 euros each full-year citizen, the government has given five times more funds for this economic and social failure than average annual health investments. Petrovic states that in the autumn we are certainly expected by recession, these are your words, and that the total of the fiscal council now expects that the decline in GDP in 2020 could be 3%, by two percentages you missed or 300%, with a reduction in the number of employees by 30 to 50,000. Is that what happened? It's not. You gave that information to Gilas' portal. It's the same one that stole 700 million euros from us. Just as much as you forbid to give me to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Obviously, someone does not want to understand why these 700m euros were given. We can always talk, that it was better to give some social categories 200, 250 euros, and some don't give anything, because they don't need it. That would have been right if it hadn't been for a financial crisis caused by a pig. You, when you selectively provide help, you selectively and encourage certain branches of the economy, not everything, and you need everything. When you give the socially endangered, he'll buy the heat, buy the food, and that's where it ends, possibly some wardrobe. When you give to everyone, you encourage all branches of the economy. Now, is that budget correct or not? The fiscal council's position is to return 10 to 14% of those 700 million. Here, to accept that everything is exactly the percentage. That's what you calculated, right? Just figure out how many jobs are saved? How many jobs have these 100 euros been preserved? The 100 euros we give not to make someone live extra, but to preserve the potential of our economy. Maybe it looks funny to you, I don't know. Not to me. If it was the right thing to say to us in 2021, with 7% growth, it tells us, nothing else, we're no longer interested in anything. We've saved the economy, we've preserved as many living standards as possible, we've secured the growth of our economy. I guess that was the point. Next, it's pure politics. It says -- the main reason Serbia lags behind in economic growth in the countries of Central, Eastern Europe, Romania, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia, the poor quality of institutions that are primarily seen in excessive corruption, an insufficient level of rule of law, said the President of the Fiscal Council, Pavle Petrovic, Beta, on 4 May 2021. Well, Mr Petrovic, why don't you tell us how much grants they have from EU funds, Romania, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Bulgaria. Tell us how much they have free money. Why don't you tell us how much free money they pump into their economy to keep their growth going. I think we're very successful when we're even better than they are, because we don't have that free money. We're often and multiplely better than them, but it's minimized. It is a data that the citizens of Serbia should not know, it is important to create a lossful mentality among Serbian citizens. There's no rule of law, let's do that information to analyze. I believe that there are responsible people sitting here in the congregation, because you'd be investing money somewhere in someone you don't trust or doubt his rightness. Investments, in the absence of the rule of law, amount to three billion euros in 2020, which is more than all countries in the region received. In 2019, three billion 815m euros, in 2018 three billion 464, in 2017 two billion 548, in 2016, two billion 126 and 2016 is the year that turns because then the first results of fiscal consolidation started at that time by the Prime Minister, and now the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vucic. We want to read what happened by 2012. We can. So many assault pensions. According to the Fiscal Council, no one should be given one-time assistance. In 2012, the average pension in the Republic of Serbia was 204 euros, in 2020, 236 euros, the trend in 2021 was 250 euros. Well, wait, I have to ask one question, why is there a state? Why does it exist? To rob her, as it was until 2012 or that money or those funds that the state has in certain ways, whether through health care, whether through infrastructure, whether through one-time donations, whether through pensions, it returns those citizens. I think this is different, but that seems to be the problem that we're looking at Serbia, these former and current ones. Let's see what inflation looks like, all of which are macroeconomic indicators - in 2008 10.9%, 2009 10.1%, 2010 8.6%, 2011 11%, 2012 7.8%, the year in which the SNS was five months in power, in 2013 7.8%, 2014 2.9%, 2015 1.9%, 2016 1.2%, 2017 3%, in 2018 2%, in 2019, 1.7%, 2020, 1.6%, 2021, for the first three months quarterly 1.4%. People, if I had read this during the former regime, I would have thought it was a European Union country from 2013 to 2021. But we're gonna hit that, too, and that's not good. That's why I think the Fiscal Council is, in a certain way, dealing with that role that it is, but in the most common part of politics. Should I say, we've already said, it's planned for 2020 to be 3%. In 2021, growth should be 4%, but it says, if little investment increases, we will accept that it will be close to 6%, as planned by the 2021 Budget Law. Here, we're at over 7% now. The IMF gave 6.4%. The dance around the number of employees and whether the poll is good and GDP is based only on one. You can attack the employment poll because it's only being conducted by our Republic Statistics Bureau. When it comes to GDP, you can't, because other than our Republic Statistics Office, it's taken care of by both the IMF and Eurostat, and there's nothing you can attack and challenge. That's the exact data. But we can calculate and conduct scientific discussions whether the number of employees has increased or not, although 19 billion is more GDP than in 2012. So 19 billion versus 32. 52 billion people, that's 56%. It's not 56% new employment, it's less, unfortunately. But that's it. And then we come to the question that I'm asking - what's the fiscal council for? For, among other things, the Fiscal Council under Article 92j - Chairman of the Fiscal Council corresponds to the National Assembly for the reliability of the evaluations made by the Fiscal Council. Well, he didn't hit once. When he was declared a person of the year, the chairman of the Fiscal Council said: "These days on various sides, I am told that I should resign. It wouldn't be difficult for me, I could easily get away from the academy's roof and do my research in peace, but it's not about me, it's about the institution and the created human capital that would collapse." Ohh! So, without you, there's no fiscal council. There's no Serbia. There's no economy. There's nothing. No one's challenging you to the position the Fiscal Council has. No one's going to tear anything down. But you're here to give the National Assembly the exact information, not what you want, not what you love, but the exact data. If you told us that growth would be 4% and he's 7%, I'm asking you, how much did you miss? You missed by 100%. If you told us and scared us in September that 30 to 50,000 people in 2020 would lose their jobs and it didn't happen, why did you scare us? Why are you saying there's no rule of law and we're giving you information on how much investment there is in Serbia? You're still saying, in the last four, five years, the rule of law has been destroyed. That's what you said in 2019. Are you telling me that it was a better rule of law when this thief of Dragan Gilas crushed 700m euros? That was your rule of law? When are the factories in Serbia closed? When it went out of the budget and out of everything, wherever it came from? Not to mention how it was in the restructuring companies that you're attacking too? Why the EPS attack, why the Air Serbia attack. I'll finish. I've been over the clock. Er Serbia was somewhere in 2019, I think about 290 million traffic made in 2019. That was about 0.9% of Gilasov's GDP and Tadic's, I'm not wrong. Now, count me out, 0.9% of one company, how much more does it encourage GDP, in the joint venture of connected persons, and then you can figure out how many operating taxes are made by this company, so what are taxes and contributions to employees' earnings, so tell me if one company should sell or put into bankruptcy like you said? And don't ask for an article saying that Er Serbia should go bankrupt. I ask you, Mr. Petrovic, that you are indeed informing the National Assembly not as you would like it to be, but really how real the situation is. No better or worse than really the way it is. As long as you do the opposite, you will have problems here to convince the citizens of Serbia, first of all, that you are right, and not us who answer in front of those same citizens, for Repulbika Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9808	I thank Mr. Arsic. He has the word Mr. Pavle Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9809	We are doing exactly as you finally said, Mr Arsic, precise, objectively, credible and independent, and we have been doing since 2011, and part of the confirmation of that is probably what this Assembly chose in 2017. There was no speech at the time -- politicizing things, you didn't hit anything, you did it unobstructed and stuff. By the way, when we were elected, the promoter, at least as far as I'm concerned, said the Fiscal Council made a significant contribution to fiscal consolidation since the fifteenth of the seventeenth, and so much for whether we hit anything, politicized or did something else. You, Mr. Arsic, are entering economic analysis which is legitimate, but to do so, you need some knowledge, the elemental thing in the economy is that domestic growth, or real growth, is not considered to be growth in the euro, it's nominal growth than look at what statistics give, what Euro statistics gives, and besides, take a textbook on economic statistics, I think it's the second or third year of the Faculty of Economics, so you'll see that growth doesn't count on you taking as much as it was in euros that year, and divide how much it was in the euro years ago, because it's nominal growth. That growth includes inflation in the euro. So that I don't explain it to you right now, I'm just telling you to look at the methodology, you can also consult fellow Kovacevic Miladin, how GDP and GDP growth counts, if you want to get into those analyses. Of course, you don't have to do it, you're an MP, you don't have to know it, but if you want to propose it and show someone you don't know, then you have to learn it. So, take the statistics of Serbian, take the statistics of Europe, because that's exactly what you've called for, and read about the growth of that period. Now similar to your economic analysis, exactly for all these other things. So we need to distinguish two things. You're a folk MP and, of course, it's legitimate to state your opinion, but if you're going in to analyze and talk about something you don't know, it's something else. The same thing is also related to, which means that the difference between that 100 euros is divided into everyone, or only to those who need it. It's called fiscal multipliers in economic science. Take it and read that analysis if you want to talk about it here. So we'd see that what you said, that when we share everyone's will be a greater effect than if we divide the focused group, we'd see that that's not true. So then you have this remark about how the rule of law on the one hand shows that it's bad, and on the other hand the investment is big. Big side of direct investment, that's right. But the rule of law affects domestic investment, domestic sector investment, small and medium-sized enterprises. The investments in Serbia are much less than in other countries. That's why economic growth is bad. Where did the information for the rule of law and for the control of corruption from international sources come from? So, as the World Bank and other international institutions evaluate all other countries, so do we, and we took that data and did an examination. I invite you, Mr. Arsic, if you want to get into these professional debates, economically, which is legitimate, please sit down, all of this you said, and write well, and then we will answer you. Maybe you're really right somewhere, and we're wrong, and maybe the other way around. Then let's discuss it like that and do it. In terms of pensions, it is often repeated here that the Fiscal Council advocated a reduction or control of pensions, as Mr Milicevic said. No, we, ever since the Swiss formula was introduced, have advocated the introduction of rules and when the rule was introduced, it is a Swiss formula, then we said – stick to the law, we said that, even moreover, stick to the law in 2020 when the Swiss formula gave more pension growth than would be nominal GDP growth. So we didn't say, uh, pensions skip, you can't work. No, that we should all stick to the law and the rules, so that law and that rule shows. Once again, let me explain about this one-time help, since it's repeating itself. So, as Mr Zukorlic said, we are for it to be given to those who need it, and for that it is necessary to make social cards, and that is what the government should finally do. Three years ago it was announced, and it wasn't done. Therefore, any giving should go to those who need it most. First, it reduces poverty, and secondly, it is also a responsible fiscal policy, because costs are much less than that. It's about GDP at last. Everyone gives projections. Anyone who gives projections of mistakes may be wrong, from the Monetary Fund, through the government to us. So what we can exactly give is what it was, and what it's going to be is the best economic analysis it can give. It's true, we've said for the budget for 2021 that there's great uncertainty, the rate of growth can really be between 2% and 6%. We don't know what's going to happen because it's uncertain. We therefore propose that the budget be planned with caution, to take one cautious rate of 4%. We did not say – growth will be 4%, but everything between 2% and 4%. You, and there I have to give you a confession that some others don't, yet you put in one little half sentence - and yes, then the Fiscal Council said there might be more than 4% in April. We said and gave the analysis. When we received rebalancing in April of this year, we said – and, excellently, public investment has been greatly increased, we have advocated it for six, seven years as a basic measure of government. As a result, there will be an increase in economic growth that we have been talking about for five, six years. Then we upped the growth projections between five and a half and six percent. Of course, things are still developing. What happens in 2021 is that not only Serbia, but the whole of Central and Eastern Europe is growing significantly faster than was expected in December. So all of those projections, which they had, and you can take them, as the European Commission does, if you think it's politicizing things, as it does projections for its countries, they've already doubled the projection they gave in December, so they've increased in the spring, and they've now increased the projection again. So things change. In this context, Serbia will likely have higher growth, perhaps over 6%, but all Central and Eastern European countries will also have growth. So you have to distinguish what's real data backwards and what's done as a projection. Go back, save the economy and... That's right. Preserved employment in 2020, but not these 100 euros saved, but those subsidies that went directly to businesses not to fire workers. We thought it was a great measure, the only thing that we did was give it to those in the second run and those companies that didn't need it at all. It's so reasonable that you don't have to give someone who's not hit by a crisis, I guess you should just give it to someone who's hit by a crisis because the funds are limited. As for the rate of growth, what was the actual employment, the work of employment, 2012, 2017, what was GDP, what was the impact of these 100 euros, what a fiscal multiplier, these 100 euros influence this, here, if you will, I would very much like to enter this professional debate, write all that, publish. We'll answer you. We'll see, maybe you're right, maybe we're right, maybe there's something in between. But write it down nicely. List it. We'll answer. He'll read the world and then he'll see what it is. Therefore, the fact that we only do it because of politicization has no basis. And let me tell you, you've taken inflation rates, so you've stopped at the top three places this year. Do you know what the inflation rate is exactly with September? I'll tell you, 5.7%. which is significantly larger than in the European Union. Therefore, you know or the truth, full of truth and only the truth, and not just parts of it. I'm surprised that it is now suddenly politicisation, that since 2011, we are not credible, and then this same parliament chooses us in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9810	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9811	Thank you, dear Vice President Orlic. I have to react, no matter what fellow Arsic is from another parliamentary group. So, 106. The dignity of the National Assembly. We are here today to discuss reports of independent regulatory bodies, not to have representatives of independent regulatory bodies lecture us and to tell lawmakers that MPs do not know anything. The least to say is the degradation and discredition of MPs. Mr. Petrovic, no one has told you for a moment that you don't know anything. If you want to conduct an argument, then cross the argument, cross the facts. Whether or not counterpart Arsic will probably contact the replica later, and you will talk about it, but you mentioned me in the context of 100 euros. For me, the best indicator of 6.2 million citizens has received support and received 100 euros in support. I was talking about the fact that tight professional policy is not a magic wand and I don't know if you ever walk around Belgrade, talk to citizens, and ask the citizens how they feel when they get those and 100 euros. The social map, okay, I agree, needs the government to do a social map, but ask the citizens. Last time I told you -- ask your employees, you have 30, I have a list of who took 100 euros, so ask them how they feel, and they made up the report. Ask them how they feel when they get that 100 euros. As for this, the word here is to maintain the level of consumption, but a single dose of optimism has been introduced among Serbian citizens during an extremely difficult period of time. That's why it's divided into everyone. I repeat, it is not the measure that Serbia invented, but other world economies have used this measure. As for subsidies directed towards businesses, the government of the Republic of Serbia's fully justified measure to help the private sector, to help the economy, because it is Serbia's blood flow. But, on the other hand, bear in mind the fact that foreign direct investment has also been something that has helped reduce the level of unemployment in Serbia. In 2020, foreign direct investment amounted to 2,902 billion euros, with 1,950 billion euros in the period from January to July 2021. So, not only the subsidies granted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which you think some companies were not needed, I do not think should have had a selective approach, but we fully agree, that is, the SPS parliamentary group fully agrees with the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But, once again, I asked you at first to respect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You did not respect him by the way you presented that the report we are talking about today was adopted, you are now speaking to the MP in this way, please do not do so in the follow-up of today's debate. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9812	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. From your presentation, I understood it was something that was said before I took the lead in the session. That's why I couldn't intervene. I see you don't want the Assembly to plead. Thanks for that, too. Now the right to the replica Veroljub Arsic, after which we move on to the list of declared words.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious that some things have gone wrong here. Mr. Petrovic, I'm not a student, I don't answer the exam. This is where I ask the questions. This is where I look for answers. Let's get this straight. Is the data I read accurate or not, whether inflation is taken into account, is it not the same to count in euro nominal amounts, and of that the percentage amount? I have to ask you, what would we do if we were counting in dinars? Because the course of the dinar for those years I was telling you about was in 2013 – 113 dinars, 2014 – 117 dinars, 2016 – 123 dinars, 2017 – 121 dinars. We count our inflation in dinars, but it doesn't matter how we calculate it, it matters whether the data we use and the methodology where we use them are the same, and I just said that we disagree, and I'm standing here, that you can't make the most common arithmetical percentage of growth and that you show it as real growth. You can't, you can't, you can't, because 10% on 100 dinars is 10 dinars, and 10% on 110 dinars is not 10 dinars, but 11 dinars. That's what I was talking about. If you don't understand, write to me, and I'll explain, and I'll write to you, and I'll answer you. That's the first thing we need to discuss. Do you want to convince me that the 600, 700m euros, equivalent to Gilas' robbery, and his media support you, his tabloids declare you a person of the year, did not affect the preservation of jobs and economic flows in the Republic of Serbia and consumption? Well, what do you mean, what did people do with those 100 euros? They kept it for 2021? Well, they're not. No, they're not. That's the point. As we discuss what it was like in 2017, we didn't agree until 2017 and you know it well, Mr Petrovic, you know it well, and don't distort things. Why did the President of the Republic of Serbia suggest you and the National Assembly vote? Your expertise has not been challenged by anyone, and you are one of the few people in Serbia and the globe who gets the opportunity for the second time to do something good for his country, because not to read again what happened to those things when you were gambling, when you were assistant minister, it seems to me that Bozidar Djelic, who introduced the tax on use, holding and carrying goods. Let's say that he ruined agricultural production in Braničevsky Management County by refusing to allow compensation between the Ministry of Defence and the Republic Funds, so the MIP is closed. You saw it, so what, there are 500 workers. What about the cooperatives? What about the farmers? What about the warriors? There are thousands of them, but that didn't matter at the time. Then there were other projections. We can talk about that too. Let's talk about CES Macon, let's talk about it. I don't find that controversial. Let's talk about it. I don't run away from all that. You've been given a second chance. Mr Petrovic, there is a new history being written today for Serbia, whether you want to accept it or not. And in this history, we'll all be recorded for what we've done, my little bit very little, I'm just one of 250, and you're president of the Fiscal Council. What you're writing now, you're saying, what estimates you're making, when we look at all the results and when someone starts doing an analysis, I'll be sorry if you haven't taken advantage of your second chance and won't remember you for the things that helped the country's economies, its re-industriousisation, its re-infrastructure, the improvement of the quality of life of citizens, the strengthening of the state. I'm sorry they won't remember you by that, but they'll remember you by CES Mekon, Nikezic and the rest of the thugs. We gave you a second chance, it's up to you whether you take it or not. And as long as you don't use it, excuse us, please, we're here to review the reports, we're here to give an assessment of your reports, not you, about our work, and if any of us are wrong, there are certain consequences. We, as MPs, are carrying political, you as chairman of the Fiscal Council, you cannot politically, but I am telling you, it would be a shame to gamble your second chance in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9814	Thank you. The first to report for the word is MP Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9815	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected representatives of independent regulatory bodies, before I refer to the reports themselves, I would like to welcome the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who was launched today, that so-called. The case of Edina Vranja, indicted for war crimes, leaves to the war crimes prosecutor in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Without being held accountable to anyone, I absolutely believe that anyone who committed a war crime should answer. However, this is a state-run act, a message of peace, a message that affects the stabilisation of opportunities in the region, and for the sake of truth, I would like to point out that our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, has spoken to President Vukic three times in order to stabilise opportunities in the region and repair relations between our country and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to overcome these problems and to abandon each of their country's local prosecutors, each in the domain of their country, to investigate those indicted independence. This is a step in the right direction and I hope that the authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina will recognise it as well. The Bosniak and Serb people must build the best possible relationship, and if we do not solve our problems, surely no one on the side will solve them. As for the report of independent regulatory bodies, proof that they exist, evidence that we have them and that we have a lively debate, is evidence of the fundamentally democratic society in which we operate. Of course, the discourses we can hear today are simply proof and expression of our democratic society. What the citizens who chose me, who support us as the strongest Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia, are primarily interested in, not how many people had meetings, whether they were held online, via zoom applications, etc. It's technical stuff and I've looked at your reports and I'm less satisfied. It's just that we came today in good faith to support those reports. However, I have heard quite enough arguments when it comes to the Fiscal Council report and we respect the argument of fellow MPs and we will not vote for this report. As for the other reports, we will support them, but what interests the citizens and the citizens who elected us here, and primarily the people who live in Sandzak, who voted primarily for me and my party, is when it comes to the Energy Agency. So, every honor, we have a stable supply, we have good production, we have a pipeline, even though Europe and a large part of the world are facing that price that's really galloping lately. We have a crisis in the UK and we see that people are rebelling, they have a lack of basic life supplies, etc. We have a stable situation and it is something that we should certainly thank both the President of the State and the Government and this Parliament. But what I want to point out is that last year we had one disaster, when it comes to power supply. The low-voltage and high-voltage grids last. In some of our political agreements with the top of the state, it is agreed that we have a complete reconstruction of the low voltage and high voltage grid. You know, when it snows in a village in the Komara region or in a village on the Cave in November or December, by spring, no man will be able to deliver basic life supplies until March. And when we talk about the Energy Agency's report and any other organizations and institutions, I always want to talk about specific problems, because when I get back to Prepolje tomorrow or tonight people are going to ask me why we haven't discussed it, it's our life problem, because if we lose the food that we're going to last, I don't know, until spring, who's going to make it up to us. We also have a situation where people have raspberries in the area where I come from, and now if a day, two or three of you don't have an orderly supply of electricity to you, the job that employs your family has failed, 10, 15, 20 people. So it endangers small and medium-sized enterprises and threatens the existence of these people. The EPS's job is not only to charge electricity, it's to invest in renovating the network. We have a situation, the village of Žabren near Sjenica, where it was built, indeed one nonsens, built concrete pillars, and we still have no competent reactions to transfer the network from the permanent wooden pillars to the new pillars, concrete pillars. As for the DRI, of course the leader of our party, academician Muarem Zukorlic, spoke about the Sjenica case. It says a people's saying: "Better to prevent it than to heal it." So we have a city, a municipality that is half of its budget, five million euros long, and no one has any consequences. So we have to act preventively, follow the situation, if something is going the wrong way to react, and not now some people have come to power and what it takes them four, five, ten years to come to zero, and citizens expect concrete results from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9816	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9817	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of independent national regulatory bodies, colleagues and fellow MPs, analysing all four reports we are discussing today, we can conclude from their content that their work has been approached very professionally and thoroughly and that all of them are both detailed and comprehensive. That's why I'm calling on my colleagues to support these reports in voting day. They were delivered to us in time and the committees were passed, and it's good that we are discussing them here today in plenary. Since the authorised representative of my parliamentary group spoke about the report by the auditor and the Fiscal Council, that the colleague will later discuss the report on the protection of competition, I will, as a member of the Committee on Economy and Energy, refer to my presentation on the Energy Agency's report in 2020. Analyzing the incoming report, we could see that in 2020, in addition to being the year of the pandemic in which the whole world faced a completely unexpected and unknown virus that disrupted all aspects of life and life and injury, the security of electricity supply and gas and oil derivatives in Serbia was satisfactory. We have a constant supply. In 2020, we did not have restrictions, nor did we have an increase in electricity and gas prices. What concerns is the energy crisis that threatens the whole of Europe in which the energy security situation is extremely unpredictable, just as it is an unpredictable health crisis, but not only in Europe, but in the whole world. The energy crisis is becoming the number one topic on the global level, even in front of the crown, as the increase in economic activity, following the biggest blow to the crown of the crisis, stocks have dropped dramatically and fell to a low level, and the demand for energy in the world is increasing. Especially on October 6th, she shocked the news as a bomb when the price of gas set a historic record of $1,900 per thousand cubic metres. By the end of the day, however, following Russian President Vladimir Putin's address, the price has dropped significantly, but remains high and unreachable for most of the countries that buy this energy. Also, the global stock exchanges record a new rise in oil prices, as well as electricity, which suggests only deepening this energy crisis. Even though it changes every day, the price of gas is currently, at least yesterday, about $980 per thousand cubic meters, I don't know exactly how much it is today, which we as a country, and by the estimates of experts and by the estimates of those who run this country, we couldn't possibly stand it. However, thanks to good and responsible planning and previous activities, Serbia is calm for the time being, and so also says the Prime Minister, but also experts and analysts who monitor energy movements. Since we are a transit country, the gas is regularly supplied to the Banatski Dvor warehouse, and there are sufficient reserves of this energy, but it is daily complemented by new quantities of gas, and therefore prices should not change by the end of the year, and for the following year it is actively negotiated. According to current announcements, Serbia will get gas at favourable prices. As for electricity, Serbia is also in a better position, because we are independent by producing enough electricity. What's good news is that the preventive imports were secured by half of December, and until the repair of Block B1 was completed at the thermal power plant in Obrenovac. Also, projects are being prepared to build new Gjerdap 3 and Bistrica hydropower plants, which will increase our country's production capacity by 15%, thus ensuring additional independence and energy security. At the session of the Committee on Economy and Energy, dedicated to the price of energy, we heard that the price of electricity for households will not change by the end of the year and will be the cheapest in this part of Europe. However, this does not apply to the economy, because it buys kilowatts on the free market and that fact is worrying not only about the economy, but also to the citizens, because any increase in the price of energy for the economy will inevitably affect the prices, i.e. to start the collection of all products. The price of electricity in Europe has already been raised by 50% and for households and countries individually seek solutions. The joint solution should be considered by the end of October already in the coming days. I found EU data relating to the pre-pandemic period where, for example, in 2019, around 7% of Europeans had a problem warming up their homes during the winter, and in some countries the percentage was much higher, and now fears it could double. Serbia doesn't have that problem. The fact is, for sure, what is to be said is that the current energy crisis shows that countries that have thermal power plants on coal are easier to withstand new price shocks. Also states that have a strategic partnership with Gazprom are in a better position with regard to gas security. As for Serbia, I have had long-term arrangements with Gazprom, and I do not think it should be doubtful whether the arrangement will be extended. What this crisis certainly has shown is that it is not good for coal and fossil fuels to be rapidly or rapidly eliminated from the energy mix, which certainly does not mean that it does not need to be gradually shifted to renewable energy sources. Energy transition must be well balanced and respect both ecological and economic aspects and sustainable in terms of ensuring sufficient amounts of energy, but also going towards carbon neutrality, i.e. reducing global greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere. This certainly is neither fast nor easy, but while all countries are fighting the battle to provide sufficient amounts of energy and think about long-term energy stability, we must not forget the climate neutrality and the fight against climate change, as one of the most important challenges in protecting the environment that humanity faces today. Serbia is well balanced and planning its energy policy, as has been shown today when the whole world is fighting a battle for energy. I hope that's the way it's gonna be in the future. As I said, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support this and the other three reports we are discussing today at the time of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9818	Thank you. The word is Dr. Dusko Pejovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9819	Thank you, Chairman. Here, a few times already mentioned the DRI, so I think it's time I called to give the right answers to some dilemmas, misunderstandings, etc. First of all, let me remind you, because it seems to me, it hasn't come to all yet, I don't mean this temple here, this home, but usually. The State Audit Authority is a special, independent, independent organisation and institutions and the highest state control body in the area of public spending. In this regard, we also have an additional obligation to, as the highest control body, either the most or the most detailed and the most precise and precise way to say about the spending of public funds on all levels. Now what I'm going to say is, it's in our reports, but not in the work reports, we're talking about the report on the DRI's work today. What I'm saying now is, this is about the report on the audit of the financial reports carried out specifically or on the audit report of the completed account of the Republic of Serbia, so I'm sorry we didn't have a dialogue with the President of the Fiscal Council before. I'm sorry we didn't have it, because certain dilemmas that were brought here are already listed in our reports and they're not a dilemma. So first, let me say something about foreign direct investment from DRI. So these are subsidies to private enterprises that have been shown, but in the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, not in the final account, but in the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. This appropriation is intended to cover the costs of the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council and the Council. Individual transfers of these funds shall be accounted for and shown in the master book, not in the final account. Why? Well, because the final account is shown on the third level as a group of conts, which in translation means that it is a sum of which is either unrecognizable or unrecognizable by an individual artist and by an individual amount. Where can you see that? In the main book, and she was as the main business book available to the DRI always was and now she was. And when we talk about the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, we also talk about these amounts, i.e. the documentation on foreign direct investment, is in the Ministry of Economy. There are reports on the implementation of the appropriate tranches, as the following payments are approved on the basis of the previous report. There's evidence of employment. There are many other evidences that have been arranged and that are being realized. Now, it's unclear to me what there is that's not open enough, not public enough, for the DRI, it's all open and we've listed it in our report. Furthermore, as regards fines and penals, they are shown within 483 contiguous groups, payments are made under the court's act from the position of the body which is sued or forced to charge that amount and are charged through the NBS. In order to collect debts by forced payment on a court solution, the funds shall be reduced to the user listed on that basis. If it is not listed, then the funds are being reduced to the Ministry of Finance. The documentation based on which forced payment is made to users does not generally arrive. The final account again shows itself on the third level in the sum, and individual analysts are in the main book that is always available to us. The next item is loans. Loans shouldn't be particularly surprising because they're not from this year or the previous year. They've been in the budget for many years, and they've been in the budget at least since 2008 since we were founded, ever since we started going over the final account, we've been meeting with the loan category. Loans are granted on the basis of the government's conclusion. They are not published, and in the final account they prove to be the expenditure on the 621 contract – the purchase of financial assets. There's a contract for every loan. Each loan shall be entered in the category of claims, so as to monitor their payment, they shall be very often charged, borrowed, charged or sometimes extended. What may be a misunderstanding in this relationship is that now that we are giving the report on work for 2020, we are talking about these amounts from 2019, and the Fiscal Council is probably more up-to-date, it is talking about 2020 and I am also sure about 2021. In 2020 and 2021 they are covered by the pandemic and are certainly covered by greater loan needs. I can give you a few amounts, the PIO Fund has been given six billion, and it's been returned, and others are also given the same amount in terms of these needs, for example. It's RFZO-five, and it's recovered, etc. So, you can read all of this now in our final account audit reports, and that's for the loan published on the claims, not to ask at 621, where it's shown how paid up it is, but on the claims where it's shown how much anyone owes because they haven't recovered that amount yet. That's what I wanted to answer. Of course I wouldn't have answered if there weren't any questions for the DRI. As for the questions of Vice-Presidents of the Zukorlic Assembly and MP, I'm so glad you're here, because last time you had the same question, and when I gave the answer, no one was there. Now I'm glad you're here to hear one answer that needs to be made clear. Actually, it's a misunderstanding, because we don't do it on request. We don't work because someone needs it, even though we understand that there are great risks in certain environments where we go and more often, etc. In front of me is a list of all the local authorities of the Republic of Serbia with the exact name since 2011, 2012 until now, in 2021, the current and number of audits carried out. So, 171 local authorities, 117 municipalities, 28 cities, 25 urban municipalities and the provinces are in that amount and for example the city of Belgrade has been revised five times the most, most of all. The shadow has a budget of about 800, 850 million dinars. The city of Belgrade has 110, 115 billion. That's more than a hundred times the amount. Well, we can't expect that when someone... Furthermore, the State Auditing Institution is not established to run from the entity to the entity. This is the honourable MP Mijatović, who is a member of the Committee, who is well-acquainted, pointed out – we are independent because we are planning ourselves, we carry out our own audit and we, first of all, according to the DRI Act, according to standards, according to methodology, according to the guidelines, according to all the rules that exist in all the other audit institutions, have carried out all the audits in all the local authorities. There are local authorities at least where we've been once before. We've been in the Chamber, here, through circumstances we've been twice, but we already have a review of the response report, so that means we'll have three reports for that municipality, not because you asked, but because it's the need to do it, and it fits because you asked. The question was, who's gonna stop it? Well, it's not the State Audit Institute that's been established to stop, but it's been established to carry out the audit itself, to draw up the report, to indicate irregularities, to indicate how they are being removed, etc., to help with all of this and to review the response report. That means seeing if the unsub removed what we've determined for him, what we've explained to him, what we've explained to him how he should be corrected. Here's to the Sense case. The first revision was in 2014 for 2013. We then established a series of irregularities, major really irregularities. The report is like any other on the site. You have all the reports on our website. You have a summary of all the reports. You have all the response reports. You have post-revision reports. You have a status recommendation register. We don't have anything on us that's not on the site. Let me answer the question. We show up with information. I couldn't show up in public until now because I didn't report to parliament. I can't give anyone before the report on the work of the institution, but to the parliament who chose us and who passed the regulation and when I give the report to Parliament, which is this, then I'm free to make statements from tomorrow, reports, etc. Now I'm going to tell you, in 2014, we wrote eight reports, two criminal and six criminal charges - criminal charges against the director of the Directorate and the director of the Sports Institute and the rest not to count, against the president of the municipality, criminal charges and others, so I don't count now. As far as we're concerned, we've done our job. What about the reports, that should be asked by the authorities where the reports went. As regards the application from 2019, the audit carried out, i.e. in 2020, and for 2019, 10 applications were written here, of which two criminal, seven criminal and one information to the prosecution with a detailed description, probably now and what you pointed out, the taking of commitments, determined that the application without approval, without the decision of the Assembly etc. giving an advance on the roads without the service being carried out. We've given it all to the authorities. Let's round it up. We, according to Chapter 32, have two obligations in external control. One is to safeguard independence and the other is to increase the number of audit reports, and especially the results. When we increase the cost-effectiveness reports, the number of financial reports will be reduced. What am I pointing this out for? Because other than the DRI, we need to know that according to Article 79. The Budgetary System Act is a local authority every year, any, so from Sjenica, it is obliged to have the opinion of an independent external auditor with a final account, with balances etc. that he has that opinion. Does he have one? That's what the county needs to ask. Dear MP Arsic noted that the Assembly cannot adopt the final account without the opinion of the DRI and that is correct. Which would be good to know that even the local government shouldn't or should wait to adopt a report on its own, or a decision on its budget until there is an external auditor. Just to mention budget inspection, internal audit and other control bodies, because DRI can't... We have 336 employees, 33 who are outside these areas and 11,000 users. You know how many users we haven't been able to get to yet, and the question is when are we going to do it? This should be seen as one environment where we work because the law stands – we are obliged every year to audit the final budget account, four funds, and stands there – the corresponding number of local authorities. That corresponding number has not been determined. Now, let me also point out that we also have conditions that are not the best condition for this work. We have no seats in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac that the issue of business space for the institution is permanently and adequately answered. We don't. In Belgrade, we have a situation where our auditors are in one building, and the other is in the administration. I'm separated from my auditors and we don't have the conditions to carry out the work. It's very important to point out that when all of this comes together, we have promises and agreements, but we still don't have an execution. In short, it's a quick cut, trying to tell you that there's no stake in deliberately stalling, but we've even been speeding up. And in Prepolje, where you're from, we've been twice and the rest around or all the major municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9820	Thank you. Right on the line, Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9821	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for your answer. I totally understand what the DRI is doing, and I just wanted what you said to be public here. Of course, when we're having a discussion, you can answer it right now, so we don't wait here all day. You also have the right to replicate to us MPs. It's very important to me, too, to our MP group, because we very often highlight this example of Sjanica, because you did your part of the job. That's what I want my fellow MPs, citizens and citizens to hear, and absolutely everyone. So the D.A. and the Treasury didn't do their job. So, if you find irregularities for 2013 in 2014 The same people were in 2019, and everyone keeps acting like nothing happened. Thank you for your response. It's not your responsibility. Now we're going further to investigate who's responsible for this situation. You know, now someone's going to invoice people in the Shadow and say, okay. You're the new government, you promised us a better life, we want a better life, and you found not an empty register, but debts, claims, I don't know what you're talking about. So it is very important that all that the leader of our party has spoken, as our MPs say in the end and I personally, you have now confirmed. We've found irregularities, we've got criminal charges, we've got criminal charges. In 2013, irregularities were identified. If that were the case, we wouldn't have this situation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9822	Thank you. The word is Slavenko Unkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9823	Thank you, chairman, respected members of independent bodies, distinguished fellow MPs. First of all, let me say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all four reports on the agenda today in the voting day. The state audit institution is one of the key links in our country's financial responsibility system. It checks whether public funds are spent efficiently and responsibly and economically and in accordance with the law, and certainly plays a significant role in our country's economic development. During 2020, the DRI made 254 audit reports and gave a total of 2,155 recommendations for detected irregularities. The institution in the financial reports during 2020 identified errors of 376 billion dinars in audit entities, as well as irregularities in operations of 130 billion dinars. In my opinion, these are good results. I think you did well last year and this report deserves our support. As an example of a good relationship with public finances, there are two positive reports on the final account of the AP Vojvodina. Namely, it is 2018 and 2019. Indeed, over the past few years, the province's government has strengthened the area of control of the province's budget, strengthened the service of internal control, as well as the quality of the perpetrators, and this has resulted in a positive report from your institution, which is certainly not easy to obtain. It seems to me that this is the first time you've given a positive opinion on a report on the final budget of any one. The institution also audited the final accounts of the AP Vojvodina budget during 2020 and there were also no major objections, although there were years of crowns, unforeseen events, budgetary interventions in various ways, and indeed, apart from a few positive suggestions, the continuity of the responsible relationship with the province's finances was confirmed. When it comes to the Competition Protection Commission, their aim is to create a competitive market in which participants will increase their productivity, resulting in an increase in the standard of living of our citizens. We are witnessing that there has been an increase in economic activity in our country, as well as an increase in foreign and direct investment, and we are therefore leaders in this part of Europe. This means that Serbia is a good and active business environment, which certainly gives the Competition Protection Commission its contribution. What I would single out as one of the biggest results of the Competition Protection Commission in the last year is that the Commission carried out a total of 18 unannounced insights to collect evidence in the running proceedings. Unannounced insight is a legal instrument designed to determine injury to competition. It shall apply when the Commission assesses or assumes that evidence of injury to competition may be destroyed. Unannounced insight implies the entry of authorised officials into the premises of market participants. This is a complex and demanding operation that requires full discretion and synchronised relationship between several state authorities, so that these actions yield results and we hope that there will be as many in the next period. The European Commission's 2020 report found moderate progress in competition policy. It is recommended that the legislative framework fully comply with EU guidelines and liquids. It is recommended to adopt a new law on competition protection, which has been in preparation for us since 2017. When it comes to the Fiscal Council as the youngest independent body, it aims to help ensure fiscal and financial stability and transparency of public finance policy. I understand the recommendations of the Fiscal Council and the great caution that they show in various estimates as extremely well-intentioned. The occasional exchange of views with the finance ministry and some state institutions should not be seen as creating some confusion in the public. You can often hear criticisms at the expense of the Fiscal Council. I think this independent organ is very necessary. It seems to me that its analyses, suggestions and recommendations represent some corrective factor in creating some fiscal policy. We see from the 2020 report that the Council has done 11 analyses that are extensive, systematic, with a lot of proposals, recommendations in the domain of fiscal policy. The key reforms that would permanently regulate the country's public finances were the basis for continuing the growth of economy, living standards and proposed by the Fiscal Council, in my opinion, to increase public investment in the municipal environment infrastructure, to restructure public and state-owned enterprises, to regulate the employment and income system in the public sector, to improve the investment environment by reducing corruption and increasing the level of rule of law. These are essential things for the continuation of reforms, for the continuation of our country's economic stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9824	Thank you. The word has Stefan Krkobic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9825	Thank you. Dear representatives of independent institutions, due to the time I have as a representative of the Parliament club, I will only discuss today a report by the Energy Agency and a report by the Fiscal Council. Mr. Stosic has spoken extensively about all the other reports and we will support these reports and we can say as MPs that we are behind them. The PUPS Group "Tri P" paid special attention in this report to the protection of the most energy-hazarded customers, i.e. those categories of population that have legally acquired conditions for reducing the monthly financial obligation to use energy. In addition to the general standards relating to the protection of all electricity and natural gas customers, the law recognises the category of energy-protected buyer as a very positive asset for this category of population. This is a broader concept than an energy-hazarded buyer, since it covers alongside buyers who exercise rights in the field of social protection and buyers who do not have to be of this category, but their life and health can be threatened by the suspension or restriction of the supply of electricity or natural gas. In addition, on the necessary positive discrimination i.e. to protect that category of our citizens, we from PUPS have specifically spoken recently when we discussed and discussed the amendments to the Consumer Protection Act on the agenda of our Parliament. The financial means for the protection of energy-hazarded customers shall be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia by a regulation on an energy-protected buyer which establishes that the status of the energy-hazarded buyer is achieved by the buyer of the household category, single or multi-member family living in one housing unit with one measuring place where electricity consumption, i.e. natural gas consumption, is measured and consumed by the maximum amount of electricity or natural gas in accordance with this Regulation, as well as by a household member whose health status, suspension of the supply of electricity or natural gas may be at risk of health or life. The status of an energy-hazarded customer who, due to the health condition of the suspension of the supply of electricity, can be at risk of health or life is achieved by submitting appropriate medical documentation to local self-government units. The power distribution system operator cannot suspend the supply of electricity if a member of the energy-hazarded customer's household uses medical equipment necessary for the maintenance of health for which electricity is required. According to a report by the competent ministry on the number of families that are beneficiaries of social assistance and children's allowance with the state in December 2020, this number is moving around 250,000 households, which can be said to be in an energy hazard situation. However, if individuals with the lowest pensions, independent and fosterers of families were added to this number, recipients of other people's care and assistance, as well as categories most often and most at risk of energy poverty, then this number of individuals and families would be significantly higher and could be said to range from 300 to 400,000 households. The PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P" will continue to advocate the adoption of such legal provisions, which will as far as possible protect exactly the category of energy-protected customers. We will support this report of yours. As for the report on the work of the Fiscal Council, I would first of all refer to today's presentation of the distinguished colleague Veroljub Arsic. I can say that in his two or three discussions he has managed to do what little anyone has done in these years, which is to rightly protect the dignity of the National Assembly. And I don't think you understood him at some point, you as representatives of the Council with him. He talked about life, he talked about reality, and it seems to me that at some point you talked more about numbers. For this reason, the PUPS parliamentary group - "Three P" stands behind each of his positions today, and we thank him for that. But to deal with the report itself. The proper conduct of fiscal policy and how it affects our daily life. As we know, the Fiscal Council mission is to assess the credibility of fiscal policy from the aspect of compliance with established fiscal rules and to ensure public and accountability in fiscal policy-making. The general fiscal rules determine, first -- the medium-term fiscal deficit target and second -- the maximum public debt ratio towards GDP. The general fiscal rules determine that the target annual fiscal deficit should be 1% of GDP in the medium term. The second general fiscal rule determines that the debt of the general state level, not including restitution obligations, should not exceed 45% of GDP. Recognizing the seriousness of the health and then the economic crisis caused by the Kovid-19 pandemic, the Fiscal Council pointed to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the general public at the beginning of 2020 to increase the government's debt in order to effectively tackle health and economic consequences and considered it justified and that the most important task of the 2020 budget was to finance the cost of fighting for Serbia's lives and health. The fiscal council supported the government's decision to temporarily increase the budget deficit and public debt, even if it was relatively large, provided that the government spent the funds rationally and responsibly. The report of the Fiscal Council for 2020 noted that they have singled out from the positive budgetary trends of last year that public investment in infrastructure has not been reduced under the crisis. Data show that public investment is then actually significantly increased - 10% on the annual level. The main reason, according to the members of the Fiscal Council, for increasing public investment lies in extraordinary costs for the purchase of medical appliances, the construction and equipment of specialised Kovid hospitals, while investments in traffic infrastructure are held at a relatively high level. During 2020, the Serbian government tried to help individuals, as well as companies, to overcome the crisis period caused by the Covid 19 coronal pandemic. We see from the report that the Fiscal Council was on the point of view that the ideal programme would be the one to target budgets at the level of total household incomes. This system, which is called so-called social maps in public, would be able to pool all registered incomes of each household and then supplement revenues to the poorest households to a certain minimum level. Since its establishment, the PUPS has primarily been fighting for the rights of those who need the most help of society to reach a level of life worthy of the 21st century, we believe that the introduction of social cards would just contribute to this goal and achieve it. On the matter of possible pension growth, the Fiscal Council estimated that a moderate increase in pensions could continue in 2021, with this being arranged in the existing system frameworks, upgrade of the Swiss formula. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, with all due respect to the opinion of the Fiscal Council, we believe in the PUPS, and we have made this public, that it would be the most fair thing for pensions to do with salary growth, from the current 50 to the ideal 100%. For this, we received the support of President Vukic, who said he could not promise that pensions would follow the salary growth of 100%, but would try to be as close to that figure as possible. The position of the PUPS is that the border line should be set for the start to which pensions can fall in relation to salaries, and then to do the alignment of the Swiss formula, thus creating a possibility for pensions to grow in line with wage growth. Although it is up to the members of the Fiscal Council when it comes to how pensions are coordinated against salaries, the parliamentary group will eventually decide how they will vote. I can only say one thing at the end -- some said they would vote "yes", some said they would vote "against," and I only know one thing, respecting Mr. Bojan Dimitrievich, that they would now surely call him at all Council meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9826	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9827	Dear chairman, respected representatives of institutions, fellow MPs, it is good that today's discussion is open in a good way. I think what we had the opportunity to hear, and what I don't think was very similar to this parliament and the tide, is the address of Professor Petrovic in that sense that MPs are uneducated, ignorant of many topics. That may be the case, Professor, we may not be educated and ignorant, but you know, Serbian citizens choose MPs based on who can simply implement the policy of the one they are going out with in front of Serbian citizens, and based on that programme, they get those votes. So, the representatives of this assembly majority, on several occasions, came to the citizens of Serbia for an economic programme that, I will remind you, since 2013, has been a major saving factor, meant a huge economic momentum afterwards and growth and the development of our economy. Obviously, there are a large number of experts who have given specific advice and support to this economic programme to be implemented. In the end, I see in the reports that you are also giving some support to everything that is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that the President of the Republic of Serbia has ultimately insisted that Serbia be a modern and economically developed state. I'll tell you something else. We will have the opportunity to talk in this economic part, as early as October 25th, this month, when the budget rebalance will come on the agenda, when you will also give your opinion on whether or not you agree with the government's proposal, or the finance ministry. You will also have the opportunity in late November to declare the budget proposal for next year, but all of this is wrong, that all these proposals are not working, I will tell you that you gave certain projections in 2016 which were significantly more conservative and much less forecasted growth and development of the economy, and much less the results that Serbia has achieved, so you have revised your views somewhere when you have seen concrete results. This means that even if you do turn to the citizens of Serbia and to the economy, you have to look in the real sector as requirements to do your projections. We can be both uneducated and like this and such as the MPs, but we really support what the citizens are interested in, and that is why I think we have citizens' support. It's for us, in fact, a relevant factor. Well, it's an honor to anyone who's going to do conservative reports and say that, as you've given for this year, to freeze salaries in the public sector, so you said we should retire on the Swiss formula, but we have to tell the citizens what it means in your report as a recommendation. This means that there is no increase in wages at all, and as far as pensions are concerned, that in the total amount of 2021, pensioners will receive much less money in the Swiss formula than on the basis of the donations decided by the government to give one-off on multiple occasions. We need to be honest with the citizens. I think that we here in Parliament have really tried to tell citizens today in this debate that many of the things you recommend are good and we respect, but many of the things in which you see it as just numbers, real life is denying us somewhere, and we are going to meet those problems and challenges that are really in the interest of all of us. These results are obviously much better than what we hope for when we design a budget, say for next year. Because if you say now, for example, that you've projected up to 4%, and the growth is going to be 7%, then it's a big mistake that's been made on your part. We don't criticize you for that at all. We simply say that everything we want to do together in the future should be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. It is, in fact, the essence of the debate on committees and on all MPs. I think that's what Mr. Arsic's goal is. In the end, he has each other's insight into this whole situation precisely because from the past he lists many details on which we can't fall into the future. I don't think that's why any of the MPs should be criticised for not knowing or being uneducated or not knowing and not understanding a topic. I think it is up to all of us here to really think rationally about institutions and for the sake of respect for the work of the institutions and for us as MPs, and for the institution towards the Assembly. We need to adopt a report on the work of the Fiscal Council for the past year, but to make this a simple teaching to everyone that in the future we should talk in a completely different way when it comes to projections and economic trends in general. I thank you for your attention when it comes to this subject. I think that in the future we will have and raise the scale in this area certainly much more and sensitivity when it comes to reports and discussions from this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9828	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9829	Thank you, Vice President. I'll try to be as short as possible because of the time left. Respected representatives of independent authorities and regulatory bodies, all reports in front of the Serbian Parliament were much and high-quality today. First of all, thank you, it seems to me that from the DRI and from the representatives, I have heard a sentence that is important, and that is how important it is to report first to the people who have shown us trust, that is the beginning and end of our cooperation. I don't have time to deal with all your reports, so I'm going to make a small review exclusively of two reports, which is the Commission's report on the protection of competition, which I think is very important and, of course, the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia because we've been talking about for a long time and what the problems have been like in front of us, so we've overcome them and who are just expecting us. It is very important in this way to discuss reports of regulatory and independent bodies, and this is a practice that is being applied for the first time now in the term of President Dacic. I think it shows its good side, first of all because even if we sometimes don't understand each other the happiest, we open up space to talk. Why did I define myself for these two reports? Not because they're more or less important, but because I think you've done a good job. First of all, when it comes to the Competition Protection Commission, you have a big task ahead of you. The protection of competition in the open market is very important, especially about the conditions in which everyone is trying to find a corner from which they will abuse at least one comma if they have it and avoid all that would contribute to a better market situation, and all in particular to those national policies, government policies, and that is that we have as many investors, as many producers as possible, as many employees. In that sense, you've done a great job. I'm sorry that I don't have the time that I need to maybe even look closely at everything you've been up to, but I can't argue with the fact that your report shows, for 2020, that the work was absolutely dynamic and, above all, adapted to the conditions of the pandemic, which was also a difficult circumstance. You are funding from your own income and it is important to say, and you are making enough income, even if I am not mistaken, there were surplus revenues that went into the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's important here to say out loud for everything you've done and for all of us who have given you confidence. That means we were on our way. The awake monitoring of the state of competition is somewhere your constant job and year after year it seems to me that you are doing it more and more well and I congratulate you on that. When it comes to the report on the work of Serbia's Energy Agency in 2020, for me, there are key estimates of Serbia's state of energy supply, above all at this time, is this report for 2020, but we need to look back at this moment which is now fortunate for us not as tragic as for everyone in the environment. We've reached a high level of our country's energy security, and it's a good thing it is. How easy it is to adapt to everything the agency had to do, we recently discussed it at the Committee on Economy meeting and lost some of the answers we expected to hear, but good. The determination that we all do everything together that is up to us, and in order to improve life above all our citizens and citizens, is primary and we will not move from it. As far as I can see, production was higher in 2020 by 2%, but we spent a little less on the level of 2019. The report on energy structure also confirms the positive direction of energy transition. I'm thinking of increasing the share of green energy, primarily wind energy, because if I'm not wrong, and I shouldn't, the wind power plants connected to the distribution system, they produced as much as 13.2% more electricity. From renewable sources connected to the transmission and distribution system, production was 32.1 gross electricity consumption. What I particularly want to point out is the importance of the gas economy for Serbia's energy stability and energy security and the fact that in 2020 natural gas consumption was increased by as much as seven percent. This somewhere confirms, you will agree with me and the strategic importance of several years of investment in Serbia's gasification. It is important to point out that this accelerated gasification in 2020 allowed even this increase in gas consumption in households by as much as 19%. Otherwise, domestic gas production is 10.7 of our needs, while the rest makes imported gas. Basically, the energy market is stable. Our energy sector continues to adapt to European standards that include, and not only the separation of the production of transmission of electricity system maintenance distribution, but also the standardisation of services and standardisation of energy quality. Maybe I'll just remind myself one more time, not because I think the Energy Agency can influence a lot, it's primarily an ESM issue, but I'm coming back, if you remember, and then we talked, even if the Energy Agency was there, on this period that's ahead of us, and that's the winter period and all those nursing households in rural areas that have these power lines that aren't restored, I'm not getting into the details now, we've already talked about it. Just once again, simply to make an appeal to pay attention to these nursing households in the municipalities, primarily in southern Serbia, who cannot clear these routes on their own and do not always have a stable supply of electricity, which is one of the major problems. In the end, I'm going to say that the Agency has been committed to doing its job as a regulator. We could see that even when you were under pressure from the European Energy Community, and I have to say that when you were asked to even get us out of the framework of our own constitution, we were able to overcome it all. That's what counterpart Milicevic already said, the SPS parliamentary group will support your reports, especially because we don't think we made a mistake when we showed you confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-14-0.u9830	Thank you. There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. They do not appear to speak or to the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, and I am therefore concluding a joint single search. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I say, on Thursday 14 October 2021, starting at 6 p.m. as a day for voting on agenda items of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I thank the proposing representatives, all the MPs who participated in the debate, and I call on the MPs to come to the big hall to vote at 1800 hours. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that an electronic voting system has been applied and that 154 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Before we move to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 paragraph 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on the choice of judges by a majority vote of all MPs. With that in mind, I remind you of the provisions of Article 201(3) and (4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads - during the search session of the committee of directors, and at the session of the National Assembly, the MP may dispute the proposal for the selection of individual officials in the position of the first member, in which this dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. The National Assembly decides on a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates individually, and decides on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates as a whole by public vote. First, in line with those provisions, I would like to put the motion to be elected by the judge of the main court in Loznica, Jelena Srdanovic, prosecutor's assistant at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, whose proposal was challenged by MP Dejan Kesar. I conclude the vote and declare: Total – 156 for – two, against – one, did not vote 153. I find that the National Assembly did not select Jelena Srdanovic as the judge of the primary court in Loznica, most of the votes of all MPs. Secondly, I would like to put on the motion that Svetlana Jovic, judge of the General Court in Pozarevec, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Dejan Kesar, be elected as judge of the Main Court in Majdanpek. I conclude the vote and declare: Total – 156 for – one, did not vote 155. I find that the National Assembly did not select Svetlana Jovic as the judge of the Main Court in Majdanpek most of the votes of all MPs. Third - I am putting forward a motion to elect Mina Borota Ristic, a judicial assistant at the Criminal Court in Belgrade, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Dejan Kesar. I conclude the vote: Total – 156 did not vote 156. I find that the National Assembly did not select Mina Borota Ristic as judge of the Belgrade Criminal Court. Fourth - I am putting forward a motion to elect Juliana Jovnaš, judge at the Criminal Court in Zajecar, whose proposal was challenged by MP Dejan Kesar, to judge the Criminal Court in Zajecar. Finalising vote: Total – 157 did not vote 157. I find that the National Assembly did not choose Juliana Jovnaš as judge of the Criminal Court in Zaječar. Peto - I would like to put the motion to elect Natasa Rubežic, judge in the Criminal Court of Appeal, whose proposal was challenged by MP Dejan Kesar. Finalising vote: Total – 157 did not vote 157. I find that the National Assembly did not select Natasa Rubezic as the judge of the King's Criminal Court most of the votes of all MPs. Sixth - I am putting the motion to select Nina Atanakovic Sulomar, the beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy, whose proposal was challenged by the MP Dr Ugljesa Mrdic, as the judge of the basic court in Senta. Finalising vote: Total – 157 did not vote 157. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Nina Atanakovic Sulomar to judge the basic court in Senta. Seven - I am putting forward a motion to elect Milan Petrovic, a user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, whose proposal has been challenged by the MP Dr Ugljesa Mrdic. Finalising vote: Total – 157 did not vote 157. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Milan Petrovic to judge the Criminal Court in Backo Palanca. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, who has submitted the High Council of the judiciary without disputed candidates in general. I'm asking the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's voting unit. I conclude the vote: for – 157, a total of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on behalf of my own behalf the chosen bearers of the function at hand and wish them much success in their work. We move to a vote on proposals for acts from other points of the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the annual report on the Commission's work on competition protection for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy on 16 July 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 156, it did not vote – two, a total – 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. Third item of the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, v – one, did not vote – one, a total – 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has adopted the proposal for a conclusion. Fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the annual report on the work of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy on 2 July 2021. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157, he did not vote – one, a total – 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. The fifth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the State Auditing Institution for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, a total – 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. The call for the next session you've won. Thank you all for your successful work.
