ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 141 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. Therefore, in order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 189 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3691	Dear President of the National Assembly, Honored Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, my question has been addressed to the Ministry of Ecology Minister Irene Vujovic – who are the next steps towards closing the Stanjevina dump near Prepolje? I've spoken about this subject many times. The insanitary dump of the State was created in the mid-20s, in the 1960s, and until the formation of this government no one thought to remove this dump. She's being removed now. Of course, we owe the highest gratitude for this generational success to the president of the state, the Prime Minister, but certainly also to Resolute Minister Irene Vujovic. So, what she looked like was a non-sanitary dump just a few months ago, that's like this, I don't know if you can see it. You see this hill of garbage at the entrance or exit from Prepolje, and now that the first stage is over, it looks like this. I would like to thank Minister and Irena Vujovic, but I would also like to mention a fellow member of the Priory of the People's Parliament, Krst Janjusevic, who has done more for Prijepolje than all the MPs from Prepolje in the past 50 years. I want to commend all the good initiatives and moves of the Ministry of Ecology and when it comes to the State and Deep and when it comes to Banjica. I really want them to continue, but I need it for the citizens who are the next moves and steps. These days we are witnessing that Minister Irena Vujovic, due to the alleged lapus, targets of certain media, certain spin doctors, certain experts in general practice. Did Irena Vujovic make a lapus, but how did she do it? Reading the results. Those who attacked her, in 10, 20, 30 years, they couldn't make any lapus because they didn't have any results. Instead of dealing with this report, where on the densely typed pages we've been talking about the ministry's results in the past six months, we've been dealing with a generation problem. As a citizen of Serbia, as a citizen of Prijepolje, Sandzak, I want to thank the Ministry, the minister, because my son and his peers will not be able to watch this pile of garbage, because my son and our children will not have to breathe carcinogenic air into Prepolje, but will have to enjoy the beauty of this city, the coast of Lima. Instead of talking about the ministry's results, we now have to do what we did, or the ones at the Ministry who worked have to defend themselves. Also, I think it should be considered that this government has more than any other government that has female members, that this is something that is standard, as we have here in the Assembly. I don't think we should underestimate the fact that it's the minister's target, that we have an obvious speech of hate, sexism and misogyny. Whoever didn't make the lapus should throw the stone first. All of us doing our jobs every day make certain laps and failures, but the biggest failure, the biggest mistake of all, is making those who don't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3692	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirsad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3693	Dearlywed, I refer my first question to the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Tomislav Momirovic. It is necessary to continue the construction of the Master's Road of Sjenica-Prijepolje, which began in the late 1980s. The road section starts from the Milesev monastery to the village of Aljinovići in the length of 15km through the canyon of the river Mileševka and connects the villages of Milanovica, Pravrševo, Medjana and Aljinovica. On the road road there are already built tunnels, so construction itself would not require big financial investments. If we consider that the road passes by important cultural and historical tourist destinations, that is another reason for the construction to take place as soon as possible, so as to improve the tourist offer and more importantly, facilitate the daily lives of citizens and improve economic activity. My question is: when will the construction of this very important roadway be continued? I am also asking you a question – what happens to the announced reconstruction of the Senica-Novi Pazar road, which was announced by the President of the Republic in the election campaign? If this government really advocates the equality of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, show it in actions rather than just declaratively. The roads to Sandzak are among the worst routes, making it the most difficult to keep people from living normal lives and preventing economic development. We're all aware that investments won't come without good infrastructure, and the fact is that we don't have it. I call on the government to move on with strong words and make it possible for all citizens to live better, regardless of religion and nation. I note that construction has been hitched this time by order of certain destructive structures, under the pretext that it's some kind of green transfer. The same structures have organised and implemented a systemic genocide over the Bosniak people, which is being denied in this country today and whose wines are being systematically hidden. My second question to the government concerns the answers I received from the ministries to my parliamentary questions on the use of natural resources. I received an answer from Minister Mihajlovic that two million and 569 thousand were paid to the local self-government of Sjenica. The funds were paid by a private stone exploitation company, and no money was paid from the mine for the mine. Minister Nedimovic says it is not in their jurisdiction to exploit forests and wooden rentals. Are we citizens of the second order for you and is it realistic that management of the natural goods of the Senate, which are a gift of God, is still under the authority of other municipalities, which collect all income, while our citizens are loathing in poverty? Also, workers of the "DP Vesna" have not been compensated for the 11 salaries they have earned and guaranteed by law. I'll list a few more illogicalities. The shadow forests are run by Ivanica. The Lake of Shadows is owned by Nova Varosh. coal mine “Stavalj” – Despotovac; health care – Užice; tax administration – Nova Varoš; disaster – Prepolje; police – Kraljevo, etc. The only solution to all of this I see in the autonomy or special status of Sandzak, in order to solve all these accumulated problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3694	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3695	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure, I request a notice from the Department of Construction, Traffic and Infrastructure. Namely, the section of the Corridor 10 highway passes through the city of Nis itself, i.e. one of Komren's settlements. Given the environmental noise indicators as well as the limit values provided for in the regulation, I have knowledge that noise measurements have been carried out on this part of the highway. However, I do not have information about the results of the measurements obtained and the residents of this part of the city may be of great importance to know about the possible excess of the value of the noise indicator and in this regard please provide me with the information requested on behalf of the six thousand inhabitants, as long as they live in this city settlement. If we consider that this is about houses located right next to the road, it's unnecessary to talk about the need to explain this guy. As far as I'm aware, this section has been planned to set up a firewall, and that's a story that's existed for several years, and Nishi's been hoping for that solution. They would, on the one hand, protect the population of Komren from noise, but also from pollution, given the frequency of this part of the corridor, i.e. the highway, which leads further towards Sofia, i.e. Bulgaria. I must also point out that this part of the highway passes through the township of the Red Cross and it practically divides this village of Komren into two parts and thus makes it difficult to communicate with each other daily. Therefore, on behalf of the citizens of Nis, I ask you, if possible, to urgently place the records mentioned and for security but also other security reasons. You will agree with me that one such proposal is justified for many reasons, and I sincerely hope that you will respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3696	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3697	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although we have seen in different roles in the last 30 years of Sulejman Ugljanin, from the fact that in the 1990s he attacked the state of Serbia, clearly expressing separatist aspirations when it comes to Raška area, calling Serbia then a stepmother, to participation in power after 2000, when he had a ministerial post, when Serbia became a mother, until his actions these days, which he openly expressed his aspirations, in our opinion, that the Raška area, part of this area, is called the Sandzak Bosniaks, open, along with Albin Kurti, attach a false state of Kosovo. That was open when Ugljanin and Kurti met after the elections in Kosovo and Metohija for temporary institutions. The carbon goes further. He literally lobbys for the interests of Albanians, which is also our opinion, from Kosovo and Metohija, whose project is led by Ismet Azizi, the Raška Management District. The carbon is thus working against its Bosniak people, who certainly do not belong to the same national roots, in a desire to become leader of something or leader of something, without choosing the means. Its open separatist policy, which wants to separate the Raška administrative district and attach it to a non-existent state or even to a large Albania, is an open call for the destruction of the state order and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, and such action, according to our criminal law, is considered anti-constitutional and anti-zaconite and is a criminal act. He knows that, I'm sure, and Mr. Ugljanin. Nevertheless, he continues in provoking Serbia's state. Two days ago, media reportedly went to visit the grave of Adem Jasari, founders and members of the UCK, who was declared a terrorist organisation in the late 1990s, during and after the bombing of Serbia, and committed crimes against the Serb and other non-Albanian populations in Kosovo and Metohija, with the main goal of creating another Albanian state in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Ugljanin, not only admired Adam Yasari and praised his personality, but openly called on, again I say, that the media are transferring to the armed uprising in Sandzak by the reputation of the UČK riots in Kosovo and Metohija, led by Yasari. It is a shame to call a politician, who calls for the collapse of the constitutional order of Serbia by the reputation of the armed rebellion organised by Yasari, insulting his Bosniak people, who respected their country and enjoyed all civil and human rights, such behaviour by any citizen, and not one, call the leader, political parties and until yesterday's participant in power is the fruit of his unreal ambition to impose himself on Bosniaks, which, of course, cannot be achieved without anyone's support. He was definitely defined as supporting by some Albanian leaders from Kosovo, at any cost, even if Bosniaks on the upcoming census to be held in the Republic of Serbia in October of the month, I think it makes them plead as Albanians, so that Albanians become more influential in the Raška area and reminds us all of the "green transversal". In this regard, I would like to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia a question. In view of both the forms of anti-constitutional and illegal political action of Sulejman Ugljanin, and yet I say, that is how the media should carry it, it should be checked by the competent authorities and the competent institutions, especially his call for an armed uprising in Sandzak, in order to ensure the special status of Sandzak by force, which was attended by his MPs in the National Assembly, who took an oath before the National Assembly, and it is very clear the text of the oath that we all took here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Is there any basis for taking legal action towards these politicians who openly participate in activities against the constitutional order and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia? On the other hand, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I end up adopting an ethical code. The ethical code implies clear rules for the conduct of MPs both in parliament and outside parliament. And outside of parliament, we are MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have, I repeat, taken an oath that is very clear and very precise. We've adopted the code of ethics and I ask you to apply the code of ethics, if this is all true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3698	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3699	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the country has been leading a sharp and comprehensive recent weeks, I would say, action in the fight against the mafia, in the fight against crime, in the fight against organised crime groups, but also in the fight against individuals from state structures, but also in all those who thought they could be put above the law and above the state. In that struggle, we have already achieved serious results. Many people have been arrested, one of the most organized criminal groups in these areas has been torn apart. A number of investigations are being conducted, numerous proceedings are being conducted, numerous indictments are expected. All logic requires, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that both the public and the citizens should give full support to this action against the mafia. That would be normal, that would be expected, that would be natural, at the very least. But from the part of the public, from the works of the media in Serbia, both printed and electronic, the support is lagging behind, and not only lagging behind, but they're going into an open campaign to devise the fight against the mafia, demeaning the results achieved, so they're simply competing these days to make fun of all the results achieved when we talk about the fight against the mafia. If you look at the media, the chairman, you will see that these are the same media that are, I say, under direct or indirect control of Dragan Gilas, who have been campaigning for months and years against Alexander Vukic and all those who follow Alexander Vukic's policies. And suddenly it became a major issue for them in the country – was Alexander Vukic supposed to show some pictures at a press conference or not? That is now the main problem in Serbia. This is the main problem in the Balkans, it is the main problem in Europe, in the world – was Alexander Vukic allowed to show some photos or not? It's debates, it's special shows, it's a bunch of obscenities who spend 24 hours every day on Nova, on N1, and now, watch out, very perfiduous, classically replacing thesis, trying to push out of the focus of action against crime, action to arrest the most dangerous criminals and murderers. Now it doesn't matter, now they're trying to impose as the main question – are we allowed to publish the photos or not? It doesn't matter what the murderers were arrested, what the criminals were arrested, the dictation is being made by an organized haika against Vukic, in which the victim is being found guilty. Now look how far that madness goes. Look at only a small part of these headlines that have been current these days -- the media have been obliged to protect the public from Vucic's madness -- it's published by a low-cost Gilas tabloid, I'm not going to advertise. Well, then, the same tabloid says, that's the one Judita Popovic from REM, she says -- I'm terrified of the Alexander Vukic press conference. So there's Dinko Gruhonjic, you know who Dinko Gruhonjic, who says media reporting is a reputation for North Korea's media freedoms. So then he's answering, look out now, he's a merodative now, Marko Bastac, Marko Bastac says – REM is an accomplice to a disgusting event. Then Zeljko Bodrožic, including Tadic, has something to say in this regard, says Vucic's conference is the highlight of the bizarreness of political pathology. So, all the experts to the expert. You felt the irony in my voice. Now, the chairman, if we link this to an interesting story that has appeared in the media these days, which has not received any, let me say, epilogue, no response, not even the denials, and it is information that Boška Obradovica has funded from Montenegro, with 300,000 euros, none other than Brano Micunovic, who is believed to be one of the most influential criminals in these areas. This is what it looks like. Brano Micunovic gave 300,000 euros to the Dvera movement, headed by Bosko Obradovic, according to a report by the Montenegrin service on Balkan Dona, whose parts exclusively publish Serbian Telegraph for days, and according to what he wrote in the document, the man for the relationship was Srdjan Nogo, who, meanwhile, remembers that Srdjan Nog, an honest man, is Srdjan Nogo, according to former director Dvera Slobodan Dimovic, was the man for the relationship to go after that money to Brana Micunovic, for the realisation of the mentioned transaction was former MP Srdjan Nogo. If we know that there are rumors that Boška Obradovica has previously been financed by that bilge, I don't remember his name or last name anymore, I know that his nickname has been poured and I know he's been arrested with a huge amount of drugs, even publicly claimed to be his best man, and Bosko Obradovic never gave any answers to that either. I'll be done soon. If we know that Gilas was also connected on many occasions with people from organised crime, that he likes to take pictures with various criminals, starting with that former brother-in-law, that Dabovic, and to that Government of the Japanese, etc., so if we know that Marinika Tepic likes to hang out and take pictures with known drug dealers and criminals, and Gilas and convicted criminals, then if we know all that, then this gets a whole other context. Then it is clear who is in Serbia hanging out with criminals, who are bothered by the arrests of criminals, who is disturbed by Aleksandar Vukic and who does not want to deal with the mafia. So, they're getting in the way of Alexander Wolf. I end up in this sentence. So they campaign against him day and day, hoping to bring him down in that way. They're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3700	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and on a proposal for a merger of the debate. National MP Ana Karadzic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Rističevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica. The word is Anna Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3701	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has already been more than a year and a half since we first proposed to amend this law in order to equalise the salaries of judges of criminal courts with the salaries of other courts. We have submitted this proposal at every session of the regular session so far, because we believe that injustice has been done to judges of criminal courts, as well as to indicate that there is a obligation and responsibility for the Republic of Serbia to correct this injustice. As you yourself know, in order to be a judge of a criminal court, you must meet all the criteria and all the conditions as well as the judges of other courts. What often happens with us is to meet the same conditions, the same criteria, but that just doesn't qualify you for the same profit. That's why we're here. We must work to make Serbia a more just country. Violent courts were introduced into the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia 11 years ago, and they deal with very important matter in the field of fighting corruption, in the area of the budgetary system, in the area of violations and traffic security. Why would their wages be less? We don't think that's fair, especially because they use over 270 laws, use over 800 sublegal acts, and I'm not talking about other employees of a criminal court having the same salary as employees of all other courts, which means that the judges of a criminal court are exclusively discriminated against. I will list the 2018 data, where Belgrade's Criminal Court in the Republic of Serbia's budget, means it put a billion in the state register and 222 million in Plata's dinars at that time amounted to 465 million, which means they have triple justified their work. Judges of the Criminal Court are not burdened by the budget. To level their salaries with other courts' salaries, the Republic of Serbia needs 250m dinars. They will certainly put it into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and I truly believe that our responsibility and obligation to support this proposal is finally to be corrected. I ask fellow MPs to support that at least this should be put on the agenda, so let's start discussing this issue, and hopefully we'll come up with a common solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3702	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 190, for – seven, did not vote – 183. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on Implementation and Security, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Rističević, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3703	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted this amendment to the law on enforcement and security, because we have amended Article 258 in our position in view of the last amendments in 2019 to the Law on Implementation and Security, and we have restricted it to the 8th position, so that I am saying that the possibility of forced payment of legal support to half the salary of a person who is obliged to pay for it. And that's when we pointed out, and now again we're pointing out that it's the wrong decision, a decision that's practically now based on my knowledge, probably much easier for the Ministry to get more precise data, in practice, to prevent completely people who need to receive support from doing so. I must remind myself that when deciding on the level of maintenance, the court is already deciding in the previous procedure, establishing that height and taking care of the incomes that the person is obliged to pay. Therefore, it is pure demagogy that we have failed to take more account of it when the last amendments and additions of the law were made and put aside the debtors. Dear colleagues, we've put these many children in a position to make claims they have towards a parent they don't live with much harder than they've ever been. I ask you, by supporting this amendment to the law, let us allow that if they don't already have love, daily care and attention to whoever is obliged to support them at least allow them to live decently, and without reason not to spend extra energy and additional financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3704	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 190, for – 14, did not vote – 176. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. People's MP Bojan Torbica, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the session agenda – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3705	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, forever history will remain recorded as on 24 March 1999, without the consent of the UN Security Council and against international law, the aggression of the largest and strongest military alliances in the history of human civilization has begun on a small proud and sovereign country. It will be written that, without mercy, those who have defended their hearths, their families, their freedom, those who have just begun their lives, who wanted to live, those who are called collateral damage. During the 78 days of aggression almost the entire infrastructure of one state was destroyed, but what is more difficult, what is irreparable to bridges, factories, residential buildings, military facilities are the lives of innocents and brave defenders. There are no cities and settlements that NATO bombs are not principles. There are families left under the ruins. In Aleksinac, the Milic family died at one point: Father Dragomir, mother of Dragica and their daughter, Snezana. Under the bombs, life and the youngest victims of NATO aggression were extinguished by 11-month-old Bojana Tosovic and her father Bozin from Merdar near Kursumlia. In Novi Pazar, two-year-old Marko Silic and his dad, Vladan, died together. Three-year-old Milica Rakic was killed in Batajnica. The exact number of dead and wounded, both those who have defended their homeland and civilians, to our shame, has not been established to this day. Most of the data we have available today was identified during the first year after NATO aggression, as a violent change of government in Serbia and a new puppet power occurred after the five-octobaric coup in 2000, adding to its Western mentors, ending the determination of the exact number of dead and wounded during the criminal NATO aggression. The representatives of these authorities forget to determine the true i.e. The exact number of victims of NATO aggression, but do not forget to release more than 200 of the worst KLA terrorists responsible for some of the worst crimes against the civilian population, members of the military and police, as they do not forget to persecute and arrest commanders who during the aggression heroically opposed the joint NATO pact and Shiptar terrorist gangs and humiliate them as the worst criminals and deliver them to The Hague tribunal. I call on all MPs to support our proposal, to make a decision on the establishment of a commission that would once and for all determine the exact number of dead and wounded citizens of the Republic of Serbia during the criminal NATO aggression and to put an end to this issue once and for all, preventing any further relativisation of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3706	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 189, for – 16, did not vote – 173. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2, 170 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that it be carried out; under one, a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the field of security co-operation; under two, a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of a President, a Vice-President and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services and a proposal for candidates to elect members of the Greater Agency for the Prevention of Corruption. Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 188, for – 173, did not vote – 15. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 188, for – 173, did not vote – 15. I find that the National Assembly by majority of votes established the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals, 1995, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the field of security co-operation, 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President, Vice-President and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, 4. Proposal for a candidate to elect members of the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and 5. The report on the work of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia for 2019 with a proposal for the closure of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy of 19 February 2021. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. I just want to welcome the representatives of the motionor, or Minister Vulin. Before we go any further, I just want to inform you that we will work as we do every week for three days, that according to the proposal submitted by Mr Martinovic we will have practically three discussions. These first two conventions today, tomorrow should be the day when we vote on members of the RATL and the Council of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and Thursday is a debate on the Energy Agency's report and, of course, after that is a vote, so you can plan your activities. Also, I would also like to inform you that, according to the agreement with the college, I have already scheduled for the next Tuesday of the 16th session, the third session of the First Regular Session starting at 10.00 p.m. The main point of point 1 is the proposal for a law on climate change and point 2. The proposal for a decision on the official statistics programme between 2021 and 2025 and the other proposals for amendments to the Committee's composition and composition of our permanent delegations in international parliamentary institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, according to Article 90(1). I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure have been invited to attend the sittings of Branislav Nedimovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Aleksandar Vulin, Interior Minister Zoran Lazic, Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nenad Katanić, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Zoran Lazarov, Assistant Minister of Interior and Milan Ćupric, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. I am opening my Rules of Procedure a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the area of security co-operation. I want, as I said at the outset, to welcome once again the representative of the promoter, the government's representative, Interior Minister Alexander Vulin, and to give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3707	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, today I would like to recommend to you two important draft laws: a proposal for a law confirming the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals, as well as a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the area of security co-operation. Each of these bill proposals has its own specific weight and each of these draft laws speaks in favour of our own policy of free, independent country making decisions and looking for friends around the world, and each of these draft laws speaks in favour of our country's policy and the policy of President Vukic to make our own decisions and to take care of the economy, but also to take care of our country's security. The 1995 Law on Confirmation of the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals aims to introduce domestic legal systems, enabling the application of this law to contribute to the greater competitiveness of Serbian business entities in international trade in cereals. To make things as simple as possible. This is a big grain organization. It's got 56 members. All these countries are large exporters and large grain importers, sharing information and data. With this information and data, we can plan our production next year, see what world trends are, see where international grain trade is going, be among the biggest exporters and the biggest importers. The interest of every country that has developed agriculture, and we have it, is to be a member of the World Cereal Organization. And it is logical that we have our own representative, it is logical to learn firsthand, as our people say, immediately and firstly, what trends in the world will be to adapt in time as a small country, but as a significant producer and a significant exporter of cereals and to predict changes in the world market in order to make it easier for our economies, or for our agriculture. It's perfectly natural and reasonable to be part of the organization and it's perfectly natural and reasonable to be who we are and be able to make decisions that are made on a global scale. The state of Serbia is independent, the state of Serbia makes its decisions freely, the state of Serbia has the need and interest to be a member of the World Cereal Organisation. It is up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to assess, to consider. I deeply believe that in the voting day you will give support to this bill as well. As you know, he's been through all the relevant committees and I'm sure here in this House where we have truly authentic representatives of our farmers, agricultural producers, we'll hear the arguments why we need to do this, but, who knows, the many things that the Ministry of Agriculture needs to integrate into its future policy. As regards the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the area of security co-operation. The aim of the confirmation of this agreement is to integrate it into a domestic legal system, allowing its application to be met by common interest in improving co-operation in the fight against all forms of organised crime, terrorism, terrorist financing, illegal trafficking in weapons and dangerous substances, trafficking in human beings, smuggling, criminal acts against intellectual property, high-tech crime, counterfeiting, possession and use of counterfeited documents and money, illegal trafficking in narcotics and psychotropic substances. Then, the Agreement also provides for the area of civil defence and rescue as a aspect of security co-operation. This Agreement provides that competent authorities may notify each other of specific cases without prior submission of data exchange requests where such cases may be of importance to defend against a specific threat to public order and peace, as well as to combat and prevent crime. With a view to deepening relations, the MUP will hold meetings and organise field visits to exchange experiences and strengthen mutual police co-operation. The Contracting Parties may educate a joint committee composed of officials of the competent authorities. The Joint Commission may be assisted by experts who will be specifically appointed by the Commission for that particular purpose. Operational co-operation with the state of Palestine takes place through the National Central Bureau of Interpol and through Interpol's I-24/7. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in addition to all the really visible reasons why we should have this opportunity and this communication and this tool to fight organised crime, there is also what every Serb is always at heart and what it always means to us especially when we think about foreign policy, the state of Palestine has a principled position when it comes to the false state of "Kosovo". So it should be appreciated and respected. We will never, and never in this high house have we divided the countries into large, small, those that are close to us or that are geographically distant. Any country that wants to cooperate with us should have the opportunity to cooperate with us. Any tool that we can use in the fight against organised crime, against corruption, against smuggling, against terrorism, in this case, as something itself imposes, should be used and made available to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I look forward to this meeting, and I hope we have a fruitful debate in which we will learn from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3708	Thank you, Minister. Reporters from the boards of directors, just to see who signed up. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3709	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I can inform you that the Committee supported the Convention on the Trade of Cereals on Friday. Besides, let me inform you that we've sent an emergency to the Ministry of Agriculture to pay off the backlogs in agriculture, given that the treatment at the Agency for Agricultural Payments is a little late and it's probably also a lack of money for the previous period. Of course, the price of cereals depends on incentives whether they are paid or not. The wealth of the seed, i.e. whether it is based on a lot of mineral fertilisers, variety seeds, etc. By using more mineral fertilisers, it guarantees greater yields, given that there has been mild freezing, wheat needs to be saved as quickly as possible where it has not been done so far. With that in mind, we need to give this incentive. As far as I can tell this morning, at least some of the farmers I've been in contact with, some money per hectare has gone into accounts. To those who still need to supplement their agricultural holdings or change something, this possibility has been left behind and immediately to say that this type of subsidy affects both the price and the competitiveness, not only in the cereals trade, but also in the processing process, because the subsidy is not only going to the agricultural producer, but it is getting cheaper raw materials for the processors, it is becoming more competitive in regional and other markets, and the consumer besides processors has the security that it will be safe, that it will be supplied with groceries. The state of all this is quite safe that in the case of, God forbid, new military and economic pressures on our country, it can guarantee the food security of our population, and it can also produce certain results in the region. During the beginning of this Kovid last year, a year ago we saw what a fortune it was to have your food and your groceries. It was mostly olives, and this agreement was also a little based on olives and was about flour and cereal. So, not only did we guarantee food security and at the most difficult times when the purchases of the population increased by maybe several hundred percent, this country was able to meet all our food needs in time to meet the food needs of the surrounding population, which could also be a political reason to calm down some tensions and intolerance in the region. One who has food also has a certain political impact on those who lack food or cereal, food products, and it was mostly oil, flour, etc. I think it's worth it, and the Committee has come to the point of finding additional funds and of lagging incentives for the past year, or even showing up some from 2019, which is more urgent, so that these funds can be used in the next sowing period and in the next period when they are purchased from re-compromisation, even to mechanisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3710	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, the Defence and Home Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3711	I thank the chairman. I'll be real quick. Dear Mr. Vulin, dear Mr. Lazarov, dear Mr. Katanic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, it is my pleasure to inform you that the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs at today's session has unanimously decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the area of security co-operation. As it says in the name of the intensities, the agreement said in a comprehensive and comprehensive way also regulates future co-operation between Serbia and Palestine in the field of fighting all forms of crime. In addition to the agreement provided for each party to notify the other of information relating to criminal activities, it is particularly important to point out that that agreement provides for the possibility of the exchange of information bearing a degree of secrecy, thus allowing for a faster exchange of information and information which is essential for the efficient functioning of the competent national authorities of the signatories. Of course, it is very important and I am pleased that the Minister has also pointed out this, it is important to note that when the state of Palestine voted on the accession of the self-proclaimed and false state of Kosovo to Interpol, it has openly and unequivocally sided with respect for the basic principles of international law. All of this clearly shows that thanks to the policy led by the Serbian and Serbian government, Serbia is recognised as a stable and reliable partner, but also as a country that takes very seriously the importance of fighting transnational organised crime and terrorism. Finally, I am convinced that the MPs will also have an understanding of all the arguments presented and that they will support the proposed agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3712	Thank you. The word is Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, the Committee for Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3713	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, of course both colleagues Risticevic and colleagues Markovic are more invited than I to say that as rapporteurs of the resolution committees speak essentially about the agreement, that is, the proposals of the laws that are before us today, but here I, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, will say that we have considered these proposals on the Committee and have assessed that they are in line with the Constitution and the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia, so we have the opportunity to talk about them today in plenary. So, the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals, we also heard from the Minister why the International Cereals Council is important, that is, why it is important to know that it is an intergovernmental organisation aimed at improving international co-operation in the trade in cereals, to contribute to the stability of the cereals market, to improve the food security system at the world level. It is also important to say why this will be good for our country. First of all, there are 56 countries involved and for us are very important data and information that we will be able to use to create a state policy that applies to this area and certainly we can expect certain results. The second bill is a bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the state of Palestine in the area of security co-operation. It will work to improve co-operation in the fight against all forms of organised crime, which is certainly a priority of the work of the government of Serbia, terrorism, financing terrorism, illegal trafficking in arms, trafficking in human beings, high-tech crime, counterfeiting, illicit drug trafficking, etc. The aim of the confirmation of this agreement is to bring into our legislation and into our legal system certain provisions, which will enable the application of this Agreement and will contribute on the other hand to the strengthening of links with the state of Palestine. Since these proposals are also high-quality and good for our country, in order to achieve certain results, I call on colleagues and colleagues to support them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3714	Thank you. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is made by the Vice-President of the Assembly and the People's MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3715	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers and other representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we MPs of the SPP consider it to be a very important confirmation of the Convention on the Trade of Cereals, respecting the arguments we have received and which we have heard here today. This agreement will certainly bring certain advantages to the state as regards the transport of cereals, which inevitably has its reflections on the economy itself in these and other fields. In addition, grains and the very subject of cereals are more than just business or business itself. The grains are bread, and bread is the basic thing for human consumption, and therefore the relationship with bread besides business nature also has a significant human dimension on which this honorable home should, and I believe, too, wants to take care of, and which we are actually confirming by today's debate and I hope by adopting, the very confirmation of this convention, which the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support in the day of voting. This Convention, among other things, makes it easier for all people on this planet or at least for those living in countries that are signatories to this Convention to come to bread more easily. This is very important because in addition to what is called interest, always in every act of our conduct, and especially in the legislative act, it is very important that we always keep in mind our relationship with man, with what makes man human. There are countries that have extremely high grain production, thank God this country is among them, thank God we're not dependent on others, but there are those countries that are dependent. That is why it should be borne in mind, and this Convention is in some way enhanced by this opportunity that citizens living in countries that do not have the capacity to produce their own cereals for our own purposes in a simple and decent way, in other words bread available to all people of this planet, and in particular we are obliged, to say, an additional commitment to help our neighbours, or countries that are in our environment, which do not have enough cereal. It is of particular importance, of course, to confirm the Security Co-operation Agreement with the State of Palestine, i.e. the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Palestine on the field and security issues. The truth and these agreements at first sight seem to be among our routine activities where, simply, there, we should have such agreements. It is a routine role, among other things, but a matter of security, or the safety of citizens, must never be part of our routine activity. This is one of the most important issues that every society deals with, and we here are members of the highest legislative and representative body of this country directly elected by citizens, delegated, to take care of them, certainly to this too, to confirm our awareness and determination to treat security issues with the highest degree of our individual and collective responsibility. Why is the security issue so important? We don't even have to be so educated in the area of security that we understand and conclude how important these issues are. In fact, on a daily basis, and unfortunately when we wake up and look at printed and other electronic and any media, the first thing that meets us is certain acts of violence, whether it's individual, and especially the violence of organised crime. We just think that the state has dealt with the strongest structures of crime and organised violence, we get new groups, we just get surprised, is it possible that we didn't know that someone was close to us, that someone we didn't think was so deep in crime, where we were able to see those most brutal acts of violence, torture, killing by organised crime groups. I look forward to this determination of the state authorities, the MUP, and I hope that the authorities of the prosecution, or the judiciary, will follow them, which is not always a practice, but often there is a difference that we have a job well done in that first wave by police officers, and then we get some obstructions or indifference from certain prosecutors, at least I can confirm for the space I come from, and I've repeatedly turned my attention to this, and we will continue to draw attention to this until the situation changes. I'm saying, I want to believe there's not going to be any going back. But what cannot be ignored is the question – can violence be won, can crime be won, and can organised crime finally be overcome only through the mechanisms of force, or solely by police, prosecutor's and judicial activities? I, I don't think there's any doubt that elemental thinking leads us to the conclusion that it cannot successfully oppose crime and violence, exclusively the activities of the authorities of force. So it's already getting so obvious. Why? If we had the best police in the world and the best prosecution and the best judiciary, we have a condition in which these organs deal only with that finality when violence is escalating. In some ways, these organs are only capable of dealing with toxic fruits of violence. Then what about our activities, do we? What about our obligations? Whether we have put ourselves strategically towards violence in terms of prevention, the obligation of society and the obligation of competent state authorities, institutions and organisations that should influence education, education and which should shape awareness and influence the awareness that violence is ignored, that violence should be treated as a disease and an anomaly, as a major deficiency. I think that's where we cough. I don't think we've even properly diagnosed the problem here, let alone that we've properly set ourselves up. I proposed some three years ago in the last term, offered the idea of forming a national council to fight violence or a national council to pacifise society or the national front, no matter what we call it and name it, but definitely what is lacking in society is the coordination of all potentials in the fight against violence, especially in the prevention and especially in terms of forming awareness and raising the responsibility of all citizens, especially all official structures in relation to violence. For example, we now see the state's determination, through the Ministry of Interior and other structures, to deal with organised crime and violence. But do the media, for example, follow us? Yes, we're being followed in terms of information, with regard to various speculations, most often and sensational speculations related to acts of violence or just violence. But do the media play their part in raising citizens' awareness of violence, in terms of proper or proper formulating of violence itself, in terms of disclosing everything that violence is, in ethical, cultural and any other sense? I think there's a gap between those bodies that deal directly with violence, between our political statements against violence, but on the other hand, the other social factors are at odds with that. First of all, I refer to the media as the front line, as a factor that is directly communicating with citizens. Especially if we understand the media in a broader sense of their meaning, not only through information, but through all other forms of their productions, from series, films, various realitys, various other forms, media communication, presentations, and unfortunately very often affirmations. We are witnessing that on many media we can find very comfortable opportunities for affirmation of violence, in indirect and direct ways and forms. Believe me, a senseless struggle, a foolish struggle, the struggle with the windmills will be police, prosecutors and justice if we allow the weeds to grow so massively, if we so irresponsiblely leave ourselves to the media space itself to poison public space, that it negatively affects the formation of consciousness in terms of relations with violence. If we support, passively or actively, that various thugs, whether they're local mobsters, whether they're bandits, whether they're criminals, if we're going to let them be affirmed as certain social heroes, believe me, there's a source of evil, there's a call, there's a seed of poison. Later there will be no strength and opportunity for us to catch, catch and somehow stop the fruits of violence. Also, when it comes to the aspect, that is, the education sector, whether through educational programmes, and then whether we have enough of a fit and whether its training is updated through education is refreshing in terms of relations with violence? Unfortunately, no. But even if we have certain activities at the level of individuals, certain schools, structures and institutions, what is certainly evident and what is lacking is the lack of coordination between education, the media sector, the police sector, the prosecution, the judiciary and other sectors of life. Therefore, in order to have a quality strategy, a good platform and timely, timely positive action against violence and crime, it is necessary to establish a certain coordination between these structures. That's the biggest problem right now. I think the state, or the government or the whole system of the state would need a certain body, whether it's called the national council, a national front, some body that would bring together the most significant authorities and leaders of all these sectors of society, where we would put the anti-violence strategy so as to raise it above all other political, party, any other differences. The point of the state is to ensure security, to ensure that every citizen, every child, every woman, every person, can get out of the house uninterrupted, go to school, go to work, go to friends, go to relatives, simply not worry about whether a deliberate bullet, a stray bullet of a mob shooting or any other consequence of violence will hit such a person. Unfortunately, on the one hand, we have this determination and in some ways the defensive of large criminal groups, but, I repeat, there are different news coming. I'm sorry every week when I come here on Tuesday I have to bring some more news from Sandzak space about incomprehensible acts of violence. A few days ago in Sjenica, I hope you heard, regardless of certain media obstructions, three notorious criminals kidnapped school director Alen Tahirovic with only, he said, political aspirations. So, three criminals who are not only criminals are criminals very well known to that environment, very well-known to the police, I believe to the very top, but these are criminals who have dared to deal with politics, to have their own councillors in the municipal administration. You know what's against that school director, who's also active politically? He held talks with the other party's representatives on some issues related to Sjenica. They found out, kidnapped him, the trunk, four hours of torture, beating up, and all that the world does. Thank God she reacted to the police. True, I'm not sure if it's adequate enough, since only one of them is detained. So, we have to be determined, we can't let my people, these criminals, in this way put fear into our bones. We can't let them rule our lives. True, this is due to the change of government in the Shadow and the fact that these mobsters, through their exhibits in parties and committees, ruled over 20 years in the Shadow, and now they've lost that power and are now decapitated and trying violence, in fact, torture, terror over citizens and all those who don't want to obey them... This is a very drastic case, and he can't just be watched operationally. He must be treated as part of a broad front against violence and against these thugs, these criminals must respond sharply. Why are they doing this? Not only to kill people, but to target terror, the goal is intimidation. So the goal is to humiliate a man, a respected citizen, a school director. Imagine how the students of that school feel now. Imagine how they feel if their director was kidnapped, beaten and tortured for four hours. What kind of school is that? What will be the capacity of that director to protect his teachers, his teachers, the children of that school? Guys, that's terrible. It's something that can't stay at the level of ordinary processing. To do so, we must rise fiercely, with all our strengths, and simply return them adequately, to realize that they have, by their terror, by their attempt to terrorize the prominent citizens of this country, that is, the city and the municipality of Sjenica, actually exorcised themselves. They must receive adequate punishment, be adequately processed, but must certainly be cut off from all the support of political, police and all others they have, unfortunately, built for years. In this context, support for all anti-violence agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3716	Thank you. National MP Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3717	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Vulin, respected representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will first refer to the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Palestine in the area of security co-operation, and I think it is good that this is just another one in a series of security agreements that Serbia is establishing with different countries of the world. I will remind you, the Assembly just a few weeks ago confirmed the Agreement on Security Co-operation with the Russian Federation, then with the European Union, i.e. with Frontex, with Northern Macedonia, etc. Serbia has started a strong fight against organised crime in our country, and we support this fight and expect the countries to endure to the end. Criminals and criminal organizations have no place in stadiums, streets, cafes, amongst us. When we talk about a security agreement with Palestine, someone would think - Palestine is a distant country, located on another continent. But crime and terrorism know neither the borders nor the distance of territories that are subject to their interests. Crime groups and criminal groups are networking together to achieve their goals. We have witnessed countless times so far that they can act and organise terrorist attacks in any part of the world. That is why countries should co-operate, collect and exchange information, all in order to prevent and fight crime and terrorism. In addition to co-operation in the field of fighting organised crime and terrorism, an agreement with Palestine regulates and boosts co-operation in the area of high-tech crime, then curbing drug trafficking and human trafficking and arms trafficking, as well as co-operation in the area of emergency situations. The agreement is the result of good relations between Serbia and Palestine dating back to 1989, when the then-SFRJ recognised the state of Palestine among the first. Good bilateral relations have grown into a traditional friendship of which, among other things, testify and mutual support in international organisations. It should be noted that Serbia is grateful to Palestine for failing to recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence and for not voting for Kosovo's admission to international organisations. On the other hand, our country respects friendship with Palestine and the Palestinian people and supports the establishment of lasting peace and stability in the Middle East. Serbia is committed to improving relations with both Israel and Palestine and we expect the two sides to find a way to reach an agreement that will contribute to the better lives of all people in the region. As for further co-operation between Serbia and Palestine, a mixed committee has also been announced to specify existing agreements and help make better use of opportunities to expand co-operation. It would be good to get to it as soon as possible. When we talk about a second point, about confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals, it is not necessary to lose sight that cereals are the basis for the food security of the largest part of the population and that each country wants to produce sufficient quantities of basic cereals for human consumption. That Serbia is food security and a safe country has also been confirmed in times of crisis, when we did not have a crisis in supplying both wheat and flour and other basic life supplies. But most countries fail, they fail to produce sufficient quantities of grain and wheat for their own purposes. The reasons are different, starting with geographical position, climate, climate, land etc. As a result, cereals are one of the most traded goods between both individual countries and between continents, and are therefore convincing in the first place in the total trade. Cereals are mostly traded on the stock market, which means they have all the features of stock exchanges. The Convention on the Trade of Cereals, which we are discussing here today, promotes international trade co-operation and its validation of Serbia, becomes a member of the International Cereal Council, which consists of more than 50 countries that will have accurate information on the movement of supply and demand, as well as the price of cereals on the market. All this information is necessary and valuable so that trade can take place successfully and in the best possible way. What concerns the producers most is certainly the price. This price depends primarily on the law of supply and demand on the market, and the supply and demand of production and consumption. Serbia produces sufficient grains for its own purposes. When we talk about basic wheat food, we are exporters of wheat, and it has a crucial impact on our price formation, so that our wheat market is divided into both domestic and export. When we talk about the domestic market, it must be stressed that it is well protected from potential competition at high customs rates. If we also consider the fact that transport costs are high, we come to the expense that imported wheat is not even competitive on the domestic market without customs duty. The price formation on the domestic market is also affected by the export price. Where exports are at risk of jeopardising domestic needs, domestic processors raise the price above export prices and thus provide themselves with the necessary and necessary quantities, and when the stocks of wheat are large, the price is lower and it is slightly lower than the price on the domestic market. That way we can sell all the surpluses in the land of the environment. If we know that domestic consumption takes us 1.5 million tonnes to produce 700,000 tonnes in the surrounding countries, then every larger production of 2.2 million tonnes requires a big world market and a harmonisation of our prices with world prices. In rural and mountainous areas, people mainly produce cereals for their own purposes. However, farmers from Vojvodina, our largest cereals, no longer sell their goods through agencies and companies engaged in the intervention in the grain trade, as last year the Stock Exchange Act entered into force, according to which no institution that is not registered as a stock exchange can deal with such a business anymore. In this way, agricultural producers, millers and processors will be able to protect themselves from business risk, i.e. to get a better price for their goods. All those who want to trade, to set prices, will have to register as a stock exchange. What's the key is that, in this way, farmers can be equal participants in the store, not just large companies. However, there are rules here too - minimum capital, brokers. It is therefore one of the types of associations that manufacturers have their representatives on the market and thus contribute to better profits and production planning. I expected Mr. Nedimovic to be present at this session, but I, Mr. Katanic, would ask you to pass on one of my questions to him. I don't know if you know the problem that potato manufacturers are currently facing in western Serbia and whether there is a way to help them. Namely, the producers of the village in the municipality of Cačak, Gornji Milanovac, Ivanjica, in their warehouses have hundreds of wagons of last year's generation that cannot be placed, and already the spring sowing is approaching. These people have been producing potatoes for decades and it's one of the few cultures that works in the area and they have neither choice nor alternative to change the way they produce. Earlier, a Chacan chipper who produced the best chips in the former state bought all the produced potatoes from the region, however, this is no longer the case and these people are in the wind of the market. The current purchase price for potatoes is 10 dinars, but no one will do it anymore because the freezers in the area are packed, and farmers say - with potatoes from imports. If we take into account the fact that the production of one kilo of potatoes costs 13 dinars, and that the ransom price is currently 10 dinars and that no one wants it, then it's clear that these people don't have any receipts, but they want to sell their potatoes, their reserves at least 10 dinars, so they can do the spring set. If that doesn't happen, their potatoes will end up in rural streams and ponds, and a sowing for 2021 will be questioned. So I also appeal this way to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, which we have set up to solve these problems, to do something about it, to find a solution and to save the spring sowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3718	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3719	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to confirm at the beginning of the presentation that the SVM parliamentary group in the voting day will support the draft laws and decisions on the agenda. As the SVM issue of agriculture is of particular importance, that it also takes a special place in our coalition agreement between SVM and SNS, you will allow me to refer specifically to the first item of today's agenda in my presentation, the proposal for a law on the validation of the Convention on the Trade of Cereals. Why is it important for Serbia to join the Convention on the Trade of Cereals? Because by joining the Convention, Serbia becomes a member of the International Cereals Council, an intergovernmental organisation established to improve international co-operation in grain trade, contributes to the stability of the cereals market and deals with global food security issues. By joining this Convention, our farmers are given a chance to enter the international market, because the Convention provides for the freest possible trade, as well as the removal of barriers to trade and unfair discriminatory practices, in the interest of all Member States and especially developing countries, we become a member of an international club of significant grain producers, a club that makes up a quarter of the world, because 56 Member States are and we get access to information, analysis, reports, statistics and consultations. In one sentence, we get the opportunity to create our policies and strategies for the development of agriculture in line with global trends, expected trends and changes, especially in the cereals sector. The fact is that the development of agriculture depends on the application of scientific achievements, experiences and productivity of farmers, agrarian policies, scope and quality of investment in the sector itself, but also depends on trends happening in the environment, in the EU and in the world. A simple question is raised – why is this convention important for every farmer in Serbia? The answer is simple – because it covers four crops, wheat, corn, rice and soybean, and Serbia, which produced 7.5 million tonnes of corn during the season 2019 and 2020 and 2.5 million tonnes of wheat, was assessed by the International Cereal Council as the world's eighth largest exporter, with average annual exports of 2.5 million tonnes so-called. yellow gold. Corn is the most significant export agrarian product in Vojvodina, with a 25% share in export value. Last year was usually 413m euros. The participation of the AP Vojvodina in corn exports to the Republic of Serbia is 76%. In 2020, Serbia also increased soybean production by 15%. We are the only country in Europe that is self-sufficient in the production of soybeans. In 2020, in Vojvodina, wheat was sown at 330 thousand hectares. According to the Bureau of Statistics. With the situation on 5 September 2020, the production of wheat was 17% higher compared to production achieved in 2019. Compared to the 10-year average from 2010 to 2019, wheat production is up 18%, corn by 29% and soy by 60%. Serbia has an annual agricultural production value of around 2.7 billion euros, while agricultural participation in GDP is 6%. If we compare this to the environment, the participation of agriculture in GDP in Romania is 4.3% and in Hungary is 3.6%. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the data suggests we have potential. The question is, how do you translate these potentials into competitiveness? Because in Serbia, wheat is grown at about 400,000 hectares, and we have potential at 550,000 hectares. For example, how to increase the quality of wheat exported to Egypt, since it is one of our biggest customers? We can now only work such export markets through large multinational companies, until we organize ourselves so that we can secure large deliveries. A storage space problem is immediately detected. Now we have the capacity to store about 12.5 million tons, but the question is how much and the existing storage space is conditioned. The good news is that the previous mandate was initiated by the formation of a national team for the rebirth of the village, precisely with the aim of making a policy and strategy for the further development of the village and agriculture. By the way, one of the members of the National Team for the Rebirth of the Village is also the president of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians and the chairman of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Mr Istvan Pastor. An example of strategic thinking is the fact that in early July of last year, the National Village Rebirth Team paid particular attention to the very subject of grain storage, the cost of investment in the construction of silos. For, silos in agricultural holdings or cooperatives allow for the adequate storage, partially processed, standardised and placed on the market as a commodity of defined quality after harvesting at the time when the price on the regional and world market reaches an optimum for the seller. It is clear that we ourselves must create an incentive environment for our farmers dealing with the production of cereals and speed up how much basic problems can be solved. If we count, agriculture is cared for by more than 30 state institutions. So the capacity to solve problems exists. There is only a question of how to approach solving difficult, sometimes decades of problems. In order for Serbia to increase the production of cereals by 20%, which is considered realistic, it is necessary, among other things, to support our farmers through a different subsidy policy, to change tax policy, a policy of financial support to the family with children, social and pension insurance, access to IPARD funds, to strengthen land and cooperatives. As at the beginning of each year, these days are again the current subject of the subsidy, so the distribution regulation on incentives in agriculture and rural development for 2021 provides for this year a subsidy per hectare of 4,000 dinars, and a subsidy for the purchase of fuel of 1,200 dinars has been abolished. The position on subsidies for SVM farmers does not change for years. We recall that in 2015, during the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, we indicated that high subsidies are a condition for preserving the competitiveness of agricultural producers and preventing them from being placed in an unequal position on the market, as incentives to help agricultural producers in the region in the EU are significantly higher. We are aware that it is impossible to satisfy both warlords and cattlemen and fruit farmers, but the bill says that this time the solution was done to damage support based on farmland. We are aware that we are in the second year of the pandemic, but if we are talking today about the competitiveness of our farmers on the world market, the question is how can our farmers be competitive if we have 35 euros per hectare and in the vicinity of hundreds of euros, even in some countries ten or twenty times as much as we do. Taxes on agricultural land are growing. Farmers are responsible for contributions to pension insurance. Drainage has been accumulated, spring crops are on the threshold, radiation re-promaterials and fuel collection. There's a problem with outstanding subsidies from previous years for our cattlemen. These are all important problems without which we cannot talk about competitive production and the placement of cereals. We can't keep quiet the problem the SVM has been talking about for years, and I hope we're on our way to solving it. In particular, this is a question of paying small agricultural producers' contributions to pension insurance relatively the size of the land they process and the income they generate from agriculture, as well as the write-off of interest and the main debt reprogramme so that each farmer can decide whether it will be part of the pension system or not. During a debate on budget rebalancing last November, Finance Minister Mr. Sinisa Mali pledged to work on resolving this problem. Otherwise, Minister Branislav Nedimovic has repeatedly said he is working to solve this problem. I know personally, Mr. Katanic, that you, as assistant minister, are also committed to solving this problem. I just want to remind each of us that the average agricultural pension in Serbia is about 11,000 dinars per month and that the debts for our farmers' contributions are about two billion euros. Given the fact that agriculture deals with only 3% of the younger than 35 years, the SVM parliamentary group reiterates its call to the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, who said last week that our co-worker, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Elvira Kovac, is preparing a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. By amending and supplementing the law, women farmers under the same conditions would be entitled to maternity leave benefits and leave due to child care, as well as other maternity benefits provided on other grounds. It is also necessary that the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs prepare to amend and supplement the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act as soon as possible, which would define the concept of insurance, farmers based on real parameters. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have pointed only to the part, it seems to me, the most pressing problems our farmers face, and agriculture remains one of the most vital economic activities, despite all this. Despite the pandemic, in Vojvodina, the total value of the agrarian foreign trade trade exchange was about 2.3 billion euros and was almost 15% higher than in 2019. Exports of agrarian products account for more than a quarter of the total Vojvodina exports. That's good news for Vojvodina, where about 500,000 people live on agriculture, where each fifth employee works in some part of the food chain from production through distribution and sales. What is not yet to be forgotten would be impossible to get out of the economic problems brought by the pandemic if it hadn't been for the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So far, the government has implemented two, and soon the third aid package, in all, is worth approximately eight billion euros in support of the state. And I want to take this opportunity to appeal to the government, to the Ministry, to all institutions, to restore everyone in their domain to the position of farmers and to prepare our agriculture to go out on the global market. It's always been said that we can be the grain of Europe. We may be, but it is necessary for our government to make good pillars for every agricultural landowner, for every farmer's wife, for every young couple who starts living and working in the country. By voting on the draft law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals, we are taking an important step in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3720	Thank you. Does anyone else report from the president of the parliamentary groups, or authorised representatives? The word is Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3721	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The draft law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals, which is on the agenda today, as we heard, represents that Serbia joined the world's largest producers of cereals and thus became part of the International Cereal Union, which was established in 1949, by the International wheat Agreement. This Council, as it says in the Convention itself, and as it says in the explanation that we received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is an intergovernmental organisation and operates on that principle, and brings together the most significant cereal producers in the world. The role of this Council is to foster international co-operation in grain trade, then to promote the openness of the market in the sector, but also to contribute to the significant stability of the cereals market, as well as to improve global food security. All these objectives presented here in this Council are implemented by increasing market transparency, through various information and through statistical data, analysis and consultation. Market conditions for cereals, rice and olives are observed on a daily basis, through the transport of daily reports and thus become available for our markets, as well as for our manufacturers. This information is important for our producers because they look at the balance of supply and demand, as well as forecasts from different countries for a whole set of goods exchanged on a daily basis. Easier said, this Council contributes to better communication of offers and demand for cereals at international level. From these movements that we can see, our product markets and manufacturers can plan their activities, or plan their production of certain cereals. So, depending on the global demand, we can design the role and place of Serbia as a producer and as an exporter of cereals. It is important that Serbia, as a significant agricultural producer of cereals, participates in this Council, especially because this Council said that Serbia is the eighth producer of cereals in exports and that we can even engage our production capacities. Also, our grain production, as we know, covers domestic demand, but we are left with significant quantities for exports, and just membership in this Council has recognised us as the relevant producer and we are again becoming a significant European player on the cereals market, and thus the agricultural resource, Serbia's export potential, indeed, are cereals and olives. The grain market in Serbia, if we are looking at the legislative framework, is particularly decorated and further improved in 2019, or 2020, when the Stock Exchanges Act was adopted, allowing for the placement and presence of goods on the whole market in a safer, simpler and faster way, which is also a guarantee for our agricultural producers, as well as additional incentives for increasing production. For the production of cereals, as well as all agricultural cultures, they are very important state incentives, a good price, as well as a safe placement of agricultural products. So the purchase of the necessary quantities we use for the stock exchange, but also the provision of foreign trade, or exports. The opening of new markets is important, too, because our presence in the demanding markets is important. First of all, I mean the EU market, but some significant markets like, say, China. With that in mind, I would also mention a protocol on phytosanitary conditions signed by Minister Nedimovic at the beginning of last month for the export of corn to China. Which is why this is important for our agricultural producer who deals with the production of corn, is because the opening of new markets, and not only Chinese, but also all others that we have managed to open, contributes to the increase of demand for our agricultural products, and this growth of demand also comes naturally to expect a higher price for our agricultural products. On the other hand, these good results that we have opened in achieving new markets oblige us to respond with high quality, to respond to the quality of the agricultural products produced, not only to the final buyer, but to the country we export. This is important because it is necessary to especially escort the whole process, from the field to the table, that is, to follow the entire course of the production and export process. In this way we can only keep the existing markets open, we can ensure long-term co-operation, as well as the continuity of exports, and thus even expand international foreign trade for some of our other products. In the last few years, our agriculture has entered a phase where the affirmative participation of the state is present, as well as the presence of more adequate measures of development agrarian policy. It is particularly important to continue with incentives related to primary production, and here, above all, I think of incentives in the purchase of new equipment and machinery specifically related to primary production. This is important because it is important for our agricultural producers to monitor modern flows, i.e. to invest and to be stimulated by the state to invest in equipment and machinery so that we can also send developed markets and that our products are more quality and thus more competitive on the international market. It is generally known that no agricultural culture can give its maximum neither in yield nor in quality if it is invested in a minimum and if it is processed with outdated and inadequate machines. This is particularly important, because the promotional policy in agriculture, which our country has been implementing in recent years, which has equally taken account of small and medium-sized agricultural producers, as well as large, has produced high positive results and we still expect it to give, so that growing production growth, as well as exports of agricultural and food products, is being recorded year by year. When it comes to the production of cereals and olives in Serbia, for the past year we have recorded the growth of almost all grain cultures compared to the 10-year average, or the observed period from 2010 to 2019, where wheat production is higher by 17.8%, corn by 29.4%, sunflowers by 26.3% and soybeans by 60.3%. In the past year, which has been extremely difficult for the whole world, but particularly significant and successful for our agricultural production, we have also achieved an excellent breed of 7.5 million tonnes of corn and exported as much as 3.5 million tons of this grain culture. These data are particularly important because grain production is a basic activity in food production, and cereals are the basis of human nutrition. That is why we often hear that a country that has its own grain is a safe country, because it does not depend on imports, nor on the will of other countries, and that is why food and food production are often observed from a security point of view. I would also take advantage of the opportunity to highlight the role of agriculture in the overall economic and social development, as well as the importance of continuing the stimulating measures of the country which contribute to sufficient food production and the reduction of agricultural imports, on the one hand, and the revitalisation of villages and improving the country's conditions on the other hand. It is particularly important that the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognised the need for more complex consideration of the issue of agriculture and agriculture, in spite of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, formed the Ministry of Agriculture and thus showed that it is making sure that the investment in agriculture is actually an investment in the survival and life of the Serbian village, and that all the measures planned must be designed to protect our farmer and to stimulate him to stay in the village. In that sense, I think it is particularly important to give an accent to the development of the atherian roads, which are important not only for the plains villages, but also for the villages located in the mountainous and mountainous parts of our country. They contribute to the easier lives of our citizens living in rural areas, but also contribute to better and more successful co-operation. When I say that this contributes to better and more successful co-operation, I think, too, not only in the plains villages, but also in the mountainous and mountainous villages, where we have the opportunity to see that in recent years agricultural production of certain agricultural cultures, such as raspberries and such products are now becoming strategic products of our country and the serious export potential. Investment in the village and production will be increasingly needed in the future, as the global issue of food production also becomes one of the key issues. In this way food becomes also a pursuit of food and food production will be a real pursuit of every country and strategic product of every country. With this in mind, our membership in this council, in a broader sense, will affect the whole process, from production to exports of cereals, and we expect it to contribute to the better position of the Serbian peasant and Serbian farmer who deals with the production of cereals. Also, I think it is important, given the specific epidemiological circumstances in which we are still in place, that on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I thank all agricultural producers who also spent their days in their fields, in their gardens, greenhouses and orchards, who did not stop producing even during the state of emergency and because of which Serbia was one of the few countries in which no food was lacking during the biggest crisis. The SPS parliamentary group will support both draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3722	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the most sincere love is love for food. This love Serbia does not use enough. Here's the law confirming the Convention on the Sale of Cereals. I welcome that in this way we will learn needs, balances, prices, etc. the importer, exporter and everything provided for in this Convention. But I'd like to make an example of Denmark. Agriculture in Serbia is based somewhere on 3.5 million hectares of agricultural land. There's about 3.5 million farmland somewhere. This brings about exports of up to three to four billion euros when the year is very good and when prices are on the world market as they were in the autumn and as are the prices of cereals currently. I cite an example of Denmark. Denmark has a slightly smaller agricultural area, the whole of Denmark is equal to agricultural areas in Serbia, so it is smaller than Serbia and has arable land of about 2.4 million, but its exports to agriculture are worth 15 billion euros, so four, five times more than it is worth exporting to Serbia. But Denmark doesn't export any grains. The grains grow at 1.4 million acres. The yield of wheat, mainly used for the feeding of cattle, but also for the production of flour, is 6.7 tonnes per hectare, on average. The average generation in Serbia is 3.5 to 3.7 tonnes per hectare, which shows that they are more efficient on the surface in climatic conditions that are worse than in Serbia for twice as many grains per surface than Serbia. Their wheat production is five million tons, ours is somewhere between 1.5 million and two million tons maximum, when it's a good breed. But Denmark does not sell grains, nor barley, nor tritics, nor wheat, and in all, it grows at 1.4 million hectares. But that's why Denmark exports 28 million pigs. Therefore, Danish exports are worth 1.5 billion. Danish farmers don't walk the road, they don't protest. Denmark didn't sell Sharic the combineds. Denmark didn't sell the combined tycoons. In 2002 or 2003, I also proposed to the Minister of Economy at the time to privatise that part of the processing capacity should be granted to farmers, since mainly the processing capacity was created by the work of agriculture, by giving up the farmer of a certain part of the income in order to build storage capacity, processing capacity, etc. Minister Vlahovic wouldn't let me do that. If he'd allowed it, we'd have gotten close to Denmark. Denmark is being held by agricultural family owners. We complain, we rightly complain that the number of agricultural holdings has been reduced, but in Denmark it has decreased three times. In about 30, 40 years, the number of agricultural holdings has dropped by three, four times, but production has increased. Denmark was a hungry country 100 years ago, and now produces about 4% of the world's total food. Why? Except for family agricultural holdings, they've developed cooperatives, cooperatives, not these species like we have, and that's why there's no farmers on the road. Denmark has one conditional throat, right, Mr. Katanic, per hectare. Serbia has 0.33 hectares per hectare, or two-thirds less than the Netherlands. That stock, if we had found it, would have been about three-thirds of the area of approximately 3.5 million conditional throats, which in itself would have been worth 3.5 billion in the stock fund, and I believe that the annual living scales, also by rebuilding in livestock, are worth 3.5 billion more each year, which we now do not have. It would be worth seven to eight billion more than it's worth today. Imagine if we had that stock fund that we inherited it and didn't export grains. We sometimes export three million when it's rich, three million tons of corn. Exporting livestock flour, exporting cattle wheat, exporting soybean products. We get a total of 800m euros, and that's the plant potential, just as I was saying, for 3.5 million new throats we don't have. So we're losing over five billion because we're not exporting meat, milk and eggs processed, partially processed, but we're exporting cereals. So I welcome this agreement, because we'll know who's importing, so that data is not publicly published to the press, but our government for the cost of, if I remember correctly, six thousand euros on an annual basis will have the right to a number of votes, I think it'll be thirty in this council, but we'll know exactly who imports, who sells what, who buys what is being helped in certain quantities, but we have to go to processing. The Netherlands has 1.2 million hectares of farmland or 1.4, I can't remember exactly, but no more than 1.4 million hectares, that's three times less than Serbia. Do you know that the Netherlands is the second exporter to agriculture in the world? The United States has 270 times the size of the area, barely a little bit running away to Denmark, which has 270 times the smaller area, but with smart agricultural policy, they managed to be others in the world, and neither do the Danes produce about 4% of the world's food. We're nowhere near it, and our potentials, a more favourable climate than in the Netherlands and Denmark. Do you believe that the Netherlands is leading in the production of tomatoes with adverse climate conditions and less heat energy, etc., but they make up for it with some kind of mirror etc. and by the production of tomatoes are leading in Europe. We, to whom God has given all things, and a fertile land far more fertile than Denmark and the Netherlands, far better climate conditions, all that God has given us fools have taken far more. It is difficult to achieve something quickly in the house of naked walls, but we have to have a agricultural policy that will follow a common European agricultural policy where no country does not export raw materials, or only cereals, but looks to make maximum use of these cereals in the production of meat, milk, eggs, or later on. Without the processing industry, you have no one to take the money. What the processing industry does should serve for larger subsidies, i.e. greater GDP through agricultural production and the food industry deplete larger subsidies per hectare to the Serb peasant. I always say that agricultural production and drinking water are a food product far more valuable than gold and diamonds and that the economic power of a country could be measured by the amount of food that this country can produce. Why aren't the Danes on the road? Why aren't they protesting? Because they have a cooperative that is not only in agricultural primary production, but Danish farmers and Danish cooperatives are owners of factories, slaughterhouses and meat processing factories, milk and eggs. Denmark produces 40% of the total seeds produced in the EU. Denmark has 19 million furskins, 19 million. The Copenhagen Stock Exchange has a turnover of 824m euros. Do you know that because of several associations of citizens, with a total of 10 founders, who are very radical, we forbade our producers to produce furskins, what the Danes don't dream of banning? Nerves are changing callilries. That's what Mr. Katanic knows. Nerves eat chicken and fish waste. The Danes and Norwegians have no idea of giving up, nor is that a condition for joining the EU. They don't think to give it up. We were prescribed by the Democrats to take effect 10 years from the day of adoption and entered into force last year. I advocated that provision in the laws was removed, and the Dutch were willing to invest millions and millions of euros if we abolished the ban because of their entry into force in 2023. Denmark, Norway and these did not want that kind of ban to be introduced, but we were smart and thus eliminated by a series of small agricultural holdings that organised the production on a small surface. They said I'm the one that's exterminating the furry ones. That's not true. I was trying to make them grow. Those who advocated not to grow, they destroyed them in Serbia. In Serbia, wonders are allowed to wear pumpkins and import furs, but production is not allowed. All around us produce both Bosnia and Hungary, and Bulgaria, and Romania. We're the only ones who found ourselves smart enough to remove thousands of small producers. Danish producers don't go on the roads, because what they don't make in agricultural production... You have a lot of circumstances, that the processor always wants us to have cheaper raw materials, and it's mostly tycoons that have come to processing capacity by smuggling cigarettes and oil and bought large combinations, so that they can steal on moisture and scales, etc. They see that the cheaper they buy a agricultural product, like a sunflower. They bought 36 dinars, the price that was in 2019, and then they say – a shortage of sunflowers, so they have to increase the price of oil, although agricultural producers sold it at the same price as in 2019 when the oil did not jump. This means that the three, four and agreed, sits down, increases the consumer's price. In Denmark this cannot happen for the simple reason that these cooperatives and cooperatives are owners, not cooperatives of our type, processing capacities and have no interest in underestimating their product, because they are also buyers. At our place, the buyers want to buy as cheap as they can, and the more expensive the peasants can sell, and that's where they crash. In Denmark, it is impossible, because the agricultural producer is also a processor and that cooperative, if agricultural holdings lose something, then through the processing they earn it. That's why they're more useful to me than the most honest love, the love of food I need in the next period of better agricultural policy, more subsidies... If our peasants have conditions as farmers in the EU and if we adopt the concept of Denmark, in a few years we will step down, we will have better results than EU agricultural producers who currently have five to 10 times better subsidies than agricultural producers in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3724	Thank you. We're moving on to the speaker list. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3725	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Mr. Vulin, Mr. Katanic, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party and I have been selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, where together with our colleagues and our Serbian president, we are working to ensure the best conditions of life here and here in central Serbia and Belgrade as well as in all parts of Serbia. Here we are talking today, this point about agriculture Mr. Risticevic said a little before which are so clearly comparable, where the gentleman from the Parliament Club who represents the vice president of the Committee who spoke about agriculture, about the problems in agriculture, I will support all this because it is really evident. The big thing for all of us here is that we know, and we know that agriculture has been the bearer of our country's development now and before, that the peasant has defended and fed the country, but on the other hand, we need to put more attention specifically tied up, both here in the Assembly and in the Government, related to helping our agricultural producers. It is not the same to do agriculture in Novi Sad, Vojvodina, central Serbia, it is not the same to do agriculture in southeastern Serbia. The big problem is the ageing population of people, the big problem is that a large number of our fellow citizens, friends going from these small communities to larger centres, but on the other hand agriculture is our chance. We who are here now know that we have a large number of, or several houses of strong producers that make these seed wheat products for corn and for all those cereals. It's the Institute of NS Seed, the Institute of Zemun Field, we know about them, and there are more. These products are present in all parts of the world, both Russia and Brazil and Denmark, they are everywhere. We've now opened a market where slowly but surely these institutes have a smaller passage here than some foreign houses. Probably because these foreign producers who deliver these seed goods probably give a higher percentage to someone who places it. I think it's always been for us the only and the right thing to do better than introduce, which is what Risticevic and I are talking about. We must preserve what is ours, what is worth and what is good in any part of the world. This wheat, that corn of ours is very high quality, that our seed goods that are everywhere are very high quality, and we must be sure that here in Serbia we normally follow the trends of quality development and everything else, but that's what our institutes can do, and that's what our institutes have to do. We must give them the greatest support that they develop, to develop better seed goods, to track things on the market, and normally, I, as an MP, will support the proposal of this agreement because it is quality, because it is good, because it is necessary. Otherwise, one of the more important things besides this wheat, or corn, wheat, these cereals, is to sow seed, we have to prepare our land. To prepare our country, a good price is needed for diesel fuel. I can only say that our agricultural producers, for example, have on every diesel fuel that has a very high price of VAT 20% and has an excise price of 50.90 dinars, that's excise and VAT, which totals 90.90 dinars of the total fuel price. If we were to process one hectare, it would take 60 liters of diesel grills. For all of this, over 2.5 million hectares have been processed, it's being processed, it all takes close to nine billion and three hundred million dinars. It takes so long to separate for our agricultural producers, to separate for that work. I think it was good to find a way not to go too far. Denmark, the Netherlands, these are countries that have a lot of developed agriculture, so we can see how our neighbors work here near us. These are the neighbours of Croats who have blue diesel, which is 70.90 dinar, that blue diesel, it is a very good price for these agricultural producers. They can use 120 liters to process their surface and that's a lot of support for agriculture. We must ensure that the conditions are as good as possible, to provide a cheaper diesel for our agricultural producers, and normally the price of diesel to be much lower for those areas that are underdeveloped, mountainous and mountainous areas where it is much harder to do agricultural production. I think we should work on it, with good and quality seed goods, with everything we're saying, it would be good and it would be necessary to ensure the release of so-called. with our neighbour Croats, this "blue diesel" to make it cheaper, so that our agricultural producers can make it easier and make it cheaper to maintain and work on agriculture. At the same time, Mr. Minister, I can say all the praises for you, because all the ministries where you were before, all the users were satisfied when you were Minister of Labour and Social Policy, when you were now Minister of the Army, and you are expected to have even better results in the police, not only for profit benefits, but to curb this crime and corruption that is moving in each part of Serbia. One of the things I'd like to connect to agriculture is that a large number of people are now coming into our mine areas...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3726	Let me just ask you to finish. I know, I'm embarrassed, but you've begun to praise the minister now, so I don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3727	No, I don't want to brag, let me just say the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3728	Turns out I'm jealous. So you're welcome to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3729	And you've been a great police minister and they say good for you, so there's no hard feelings. Let me just say one thing that's very important. At us there in our rural areas, in the mine areas, is it Svrlig, is it the surrounding municipalities, Prijepolje, Tutin, Sjenica, whether any part of Serbia, people who offer something to our agricultural producers are coming. They're the mahogany people who cheat on our people, and these are our farmers, the peasants, they're the mahogany old people. Here, it was a few days ago, it was in Srlig, they were visiting a few villages, they're posing as doctors and selling some medical products there, and basically these people our peasants have little pensions, they sign something, they can't pay off for the next two or three years. That's what we have to work on, we have to ensure the free conduct of our agricultural producers because they're trying to cheat on them in every place, steal them, and that's what they have to do, to protect them from the police. Thanks again. Don't mind, Mr. Dacic, and I can tell you that since my father was a police officer, you were a good interior minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3730	Now it would be stupid for me to interrupt you when you've praised me, I mean really. I'm joking a little bit, but because you had six minutes and one second on this schedule here, and you talked for eight minutes, but it's not a problem, of course. Let's move on. I just want to say before the next speaker that if there is a need, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. This is for every precaution. Let's move on. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3731	The Communist Yugoslavia has had many adverse consequences for our people and...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3732	So where are you going, Mr. Gliss? I'm going to have you and Vulina start with those discussions, really...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3733	I know, that's why I'm talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3734	Now you've pissed me off and I have to get out.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3735	In any case, despite the fact that the communist Yugoslavia has had a lot of harmful consequences for the Serbian people, I am told in Šumadia – it is wrong to sit and the right to say the words. There were some things that we can inherit and support today, and in this sense this agreement between the state of Palestine and the Republic of Serbia is good, and it is on the trail of what we were able to gain 40 and more years ago in those decades, developing a smart and just policy of friendship with the Palestinian people and with the Arab peoples. This Agreement can be praised, however, when you look at the moment when it was concluded you will see that it was the beginning of 2020, and then there was an event that did everything the opposite of what our policy in question was trying to find a measure, which is the Washington Agreement. In the Washington Agreement, we have come to the opportunity to do something that has hurt both the Palestinian people and our position. Palestine is a state that has not recognised Albania's NATO state in Kosovo, and we, in Washington's agreement, have broken international conventions, UN Resolution, decided to move our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Come on, we hurt them, but we did bad things for our own national interest. We made ourselves a commitment to the recognition campaign, so the Honorable President of the Assembly who has just come out because of these anti-Communist attitudes, instead of campaigning as a foreign minister who has worked successfully, and this is a campaign for the recognition of a false state in Kosovo and the Metohija that has been imposed on our people, today the president of this home, which is very unisonly talking. In addition to these things, we have somehow forgiven Israel for recognising another Albanian state in the Balkans. So this Washington Agreement has done everything contrary to these sovereign agreements that we today support regarding the state of Palestine. As if in our power, i.e. Your SNS authorities and the accompanying parties have so many different faces that we have those who are fighting for sovereign policy, for as much independence and independence as possible of Serbia, but then at the moment another person pops up in which, instead of being a military neutral sovereign people in the Balkans through the Washington Agreement, I think in September of last year, we find ourselves in the last yard of the United States. Only we and one Latin American state have agreed to move the embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem by violating the UN Resolution. So that kind of inconsistencies is something that casts a shadow on this government's policy, on the politics of the continuity of the SNS, and as many of us as we do from the sovereign positions sometimes want to support you, but in the next step do something we can't support you for. These hopes you often talk about both SNS members and analysts close to you, about this corruption and crime having to do with a foreign factor. We all know that this foreign factor is neither in Moscow nor in Beijing. We know it's where we decided to negotiate the KIM, which is in Brussels, and we know it's where they pulled us with a steel hand and took us to sign the Washington Agreement, which is in Washington. If this foreign factor has come upon you to destroy through corruption and crime the power of the SNS, I think you now have a historic chance to use your potential of many people who voted for you and not to let them bring you down on the internal corruption and crime that is happening in your ranks, by speaking to your party colleagues, but to try to launch a serious referendum where the people would have the opportunity to plead, that the negotiations on KIM must be conducted with the presence of two other members of the Security Council, which is Russia and China. It is totally unworthy for us to sit in Brussels and negotiate with the EU, and always for the high commissioner of America to sit there and decide what will happen to our negotiations. That's why we came to the Brussels Agreement, which is why we broke all the rules of sovereign negotiation in the Brussels Agreement, and that's that nothing is agreed until it's all agreed. We meet everything from the Brussels Agreement, and they do nothing. So it's time for SNS to do something for the Serbian people, not just for itself. This will best defend you against corruption and crime and those who want to bring you down on corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3736	Thank you. I see the minister has signed up, so the word has an interior minister, Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3737	When negotiations began, when talks began, perhaps a better word, in Brussels with representatives of the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina and representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, ready papers were put before us. There was no need to discuss it, but to come and bring it and say, "This is what those before you have signed, and it is up to you to do it." Remove the plates of Serbia, don't issue any more personal documents to Serbs, no more subsidies, no more salaries, no more financing of life in Kosovo, it's all agreed, it's up to you to implement it there. Then President Aleksandar Vukic took responsibility for the negotiations at a time when all those who were then more politically powerful than him saw how to get away with it, how not to be in it. President Vukic took responsibility for himself. And now, here in 2021, what we know for sure is that representatives of Pristina are doing absolutely everything possible so that negotiations and talks never happen again. Do you think they'd do that if they were granted independence? Or it pushed them out of independence more than a government and a Serbian state has done since 2000. I will remind you, in 2012, the whole world resisted only to bring in Serbs and Pristina asked only for Serbs to come and was absolutely ready to sit at a table whenever they said, now running away from the talks and not talking about anything. They do their best not to have a conversation because their independence is further than it was in 2012. Since 2012, Serbia has fought legitimately for the right to have its own interests, to discuss them, to fight for them. In 2012, we were denied the right, I witnessed it, we barely exist, let alone have any interests of our own. It was just supposed to be up to us to carry out. From 2012 to today, I hear that President Vukic and the SNS have recognised Kosovo and have pledged to recognise Kosovo. Look at how many years it has already been, and every year Kosovo has been recognised already. It's already been recognised, almost, solved. That's understood. That is why they are in power, here in 2021 is now, Kosovo not that it will not be recognised, but is in a weaker political position when international policy is at stake than it was. The Washington deal, of course, is that like any agreement, like Resolution 1244, there are good and bad sides for our people and our country and you can never get an agreement unless you're the power of a winner who just marched through infantry and tanks into a defeated capital, you can't get everything you want. Unconditional capitulation exists only in such wars and such conflicts. You can't get everything you want, it's just not like that, but you can fight for a lot of things, for a lot of things. Aleksandar Vukic has shown that he is the only free leader in the Balkans, there is no other. Each other turns to one of the embassies first and asks what should be done, what can I do, what can't be done. He's the only one who asks only his people. When it comes to the Washington Agreement, you know his relationship to the removal of the embassy, so Israel is strictly bound and that is then said, with the relationship of Israel and with the false statehood of Kosovo and with the Republic of Serbia, and you will admit that Aleksandar Vukic has shown one chess skill. Pristina was the one who rejoiced and felt that what Israel was about to say or do was also committed to certain steps towards Israel. After that, the entire Islamic and Arab world gets angry at Pristina, not Serbia. For the first time, you heard Erdogan come out and say -- Kosovo has betrayed Turkey. You know how important Turkey is. Only six, seven months ago, Kosovo was the heart of Turkey. Now all of a sudden, Kosovo has betrayed Turkey. Now that's called diplomacy. It's called predicting a move. It's called being a statesman. It's the easiest thing to say – no, point. Close the agenda, go outside and say – I said no, I'm great, and then the sky collapses on your people. The easiest thing to say is no, and the hardest thing to do is to do what President Vucic is to play this Filipino game, to represent a country that is not a nuclear power that can be a "Mister Neet", which is not by the number of its inhabitants, members of the military and economic power equal to China, and to say, "No matter what you suggest," I won't. He is the president of the country and I can say the president of all Serbs, because he always takes care of whatever decision he makes, he takes care of how it applies to all Serbs no matter where they live. So, he is the president of such a country and such a people who have no power to stand up to the whole world no matter how unfair the pressures that come upon us, but there is wisdom, courage, dignity to fight for our country, and that sometimes in that game and that struggle of great forces he pulls through the needle's ears, but preserves it. From 2012 to today, I have been constantly listening to how Kosovo has been recognised, how it is sovereign and how it has been handed over. They don't even say that in Pristina anymore. I hear that more often in Serbian politics than in Pristina. In Pristina, they don't talk about it anymore. They speak, as you could read from their analysts to their politicians, including those in Washington who say – Vukic will never recognise Kosovo. They say it with anger, they say it with anger, but they're right. Aleksandar Vukic will never recognise Kosovo's false state. Never. The Serbian Progressive Party has often worked, much more often than other political parties that had the possibility of such a government, against their daily political interests by investing in their people and knowing why it loses political points when it is necessary to support its people and take responsibility for sometimes difficult decisions, almost never popular decisions. SNS President and President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic, after the Brussels Agreement, first thing he did was go to Kosovo Mitrovica, to northern Mitrovica and invite all the council members, Serbian committees to look them in the eye and talk to them. No decision has been taken without consultation with the legitimate representatives of the Serb people in the KIM area and has made no decision without going to the KIM area after its adoption and talking to legitimate representatives of the Serb people. No one's ever done that before. Nobody. This courage and this attitude towards the Serbs in KIM must be respected, and especially, as you can see, that the Serbs living in KIM are in every election. There was no election cycle, correct me if I'm wrong, there are MPs here from KIM space, I think at least 12 different election cycles from 2012 to today have passed in KIM space, bar. Each time a list signed by Aleksandar Vukic, by name and last name, wins not most, but an absolute majority, gets more votes in each election cycle than she got last time. Every time. Does anyone think that Serbs in KIM are stupid, that they don't know how they live, that they don't know why they live, that they don't know who's on their side, that they don't know who sold them and who doesn't sell them at all? Let's not underestimate these people. Let's not think we're the smartest. Let's not think that you and I know better how to live in Gracanica and Mitrovica than those who live in Gracanica and Mitrovica. Let us not pretend that we now know everything and now we think – we are bigger patriots than those who vote for SNS in Leposavic or those who vote for SNS in Strpec. We're better Serbs than them? We didn't. All Serbs are good Serbs and however they vote and whatever they think, they are good Serbs and deserve both attention and respect. Alexander Vukic's policy is a policy that preserved the Serbian state in the KIM area despite the great forces, not because the great forces, any one, wanted us to be where we are. Since 2012. I watched the frightened Serbs they spoke to - you will be abandoned by Vukic, you will be betrayed by Serbia, your salaries will be abolished, your pensions will be abolished, your school system will be abolished, your health system will abolished, everything that Serbia, as you see, gives you to this day and struggles bloodyly to give. The essence of life in the KIM area is in support and uninterrupted consent and communication with the Serbian government. Without the help of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is no life in the area of KIM. This is the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture. Are we giving subsidies to our agricultural producers at KIM? Are we often not even asking for all that and not asking for everything we ask of farmers in central Serbia? How many tractors we have bought, how many motocultivator we have donated, how many seeds are that, how much it takes and more to go, but that is only proof that our policy is consistent and that our policy, the policy of preserving Serbia and preserving the Serbian people wherever they live, and even in the area of KIM. It's the easiest thing to say no. It's the easiest way to get up and leave. That was the case before they declared Kosovo a false state in Pristina. We just turned around and said, "There is no such thing for us, and life has passed on." If it wasn't for Alexander Vukic's policy and it wasn't for his personal courage to always, however difficult, sometimes unpopular, always be in communication and personal communication with the Serbs living in KIM, we couldn't say to ourselves today that we're still fighting. If it had remained a policy – for me there is no such thing, we would have nothing to defend in the area of KIM today. Resolution 1244, for which we stick to the cramp and we need to stick to the cramp and keep talking about it and constantly asking for her respect, is a resolution that requires us not to be in the KIM space. In some things, he's holding us back, in some things he's pushing us off Kim's space. But the policy led by Alexander Vukic is the policy that saved us KIM and Serbs at KIM. That policy makes sense to fight and it's worth fighting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3738	I thank the Minister. Dear People's MPs, just to remind you, without any mention of the importance of the subject being discussed, that we are currently conducting a joint single search on the 1995 Convention on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Trade of Cereals and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the area of security co-operation, without being too far from the agenda. Let me inform you of the end of the term of office of the MP. You have received the resignation of MP Zarko Micin as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time it was elected, to MP Zarko Micin on the day of his resignation. I must point out this personally, since Zarko Micin has been our colleague for many years, that we wish him much success in the current function he is in. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're moving on. There is a word, according to the list reported, MP Aleksandar Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3739	The Honorable President, Honorable Ministers, Associates, Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, with all due respect, I believe that every word spoken in this plural and every sentence spoken by any of the Members of Parliament in this tribe deserves to be discussed or exchanged or the interface of opinion, because this Parliament serves, even if that is how I see it and experience it. I don't think we've had any sharp tones in the past, and none of our fellow MPs have been overly aware of whether or not we've gotten a little bit further away from the topic we're discussing today and we're discussing. I think that only shows the breadth of democracy in this House. After all, all of us here were elected by Serbian citizens and we represent not only them, but also those citizens who did not go to the polls or perhaps voted for another option. Accordingly, it is my duty as someone who belongs to the SNS and to the MP group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I cannot remain silent and I think it would be at least unfair, incorrect towards my party and the function I perform, not to refer to all those accusations and untruths that have been brought to account by both SNS and President Alexander Vukic. I think Mr. Vulin has responded taxively to everything that's been said, but let me also use my right to comment on everything here that's been said. I don't think it's a good idea for cheap politics or some kind of patriotism that we're just showing up here at the tide, or from Belgrade cafes, to try to degrade everything that the state does for our people living in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. Also, I think it is inappropriate, at the very least, to refer such harsh tones and serious accusations to whether Brussels, or Israel, at a time when our country has the greatest reputation in the world in the last few decades and when thanks to responsible policy of President Alexander Vukic, above all, Serbia is developing friendly relations equally with both the East and the West, and with countries from Africa, Asia, wherever the representatives of these countries, foreign officials, Serbia is always giving us the hand of friendship and trying to get its citizens out of each of these friendships the maximum benefit for our country. So, I don't think it's good to send such sharp messages from this home to Israel, because Serbia, both with Israel and with every other country will always insist that there are good relations and that there will be some co-operation that will be of general benefit and of general interest to our country, above all for our citizens. As for corruption, especially corruption in our ranks, which is mentioned here, unlike us, everyone in any function will be sanctioned if they have any touch points with corruption. During the previous period, procedures that clearly showed that the SNS membership card does not protect anyone, and especially does not protect them from the law. This is a huge difference between us and those who led the country to 2012/13. years, or some people who today betray themselves and represent themselves as some alternative or to God as some new faces who want to lead Serbia. For the Serbian Progressive Party, there are no protecteds and anyone who has committed any crime must be sanctioned. It is a clear policy and the Serbian government, but also President Aleksandar Vukic, who has repeatedly sent such a message and repeated it. In addition to that message, what happens on the ground is much more important, if we call it that, and the fact that many SNS officials are sanctioned. Can you stop it at every moment and place? You'll agree it's impossible. But what you can do is fight people like that and separate the wheat and the weeds that way. I am absolutely for it, and anyone who has sinned against the law must answer. As for the sentence that my ears are the most burning and my most painful, it is that Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have to work more for Serbia, the spray people, and less for their own personal interest. This listens to someone who has nothing to do with politics, so maybe he follows the news or reads the newspaper, or gets informed along the way, knows that this is an unprecedented untruth and that it was utterly malicious, to abuse this attention given by a live broadcast of the Serbian Parliament. I will not compromise with anyone here on the subject of the political opinion and ideologies they represent. I always try to have nothing but arguments and facts. That President Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS together with the Serbian government are doing everything for both Serbia and the Serbian people, for people living in our country, show that by 2012, we were on the verge of existence, on the verge of break-in, we were in front of bankruptcy, we didn't know where we were going to pay for neither salaries nor pensions, that it was constantly threatening to wait for tomorrow and what the day after tomorrow to bring us, that we were paying out of credit, that we were brought to the brink of a country that in the 21st century must think whether the family would have bread to eat tomorrow. That all I'm saying is it's not pure demagogy and it's not a lie that many, unfortunately, say that we had unemployment at 23% in that period, and today unemployment is below 10%. In 2012, the average earnings were around 360 euros, and today's average salary is 562 euros. Foreign direct investment was about 700 million, which is now over three billion. In addition, if we take the very information that our GDP was down 2.7%, and in 2019, if we take it as a rapper, not taking 2020 because of the Kovid crisis, our GDP was over 4.7% in plus. In addition, the construction of highways, hospitals, schools, homes of health, clinical centres clearly demonstrates how much the government of SNS led Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government has done for Serbia, for our country, for every citizen, wherever he lives, whatever religion he is or whatever he is experiencing. That's the only truth. So, such accusations by the cobwebs, that it must be done for the Serbian people and for Serbia no longer stand. We will always answer such accusations with the truth, because it was never for Serbia again and it was never for its citizens. About Kosovo and Metohija and patriotism from Belgrade, expressed only in certain discussions, I think the best things were said by Mr Alexander Vulin. I won't get in touch, but as a frequent guest of friends in Kosovo and Metohija, I'll just give you what they think and what they say. No one has ever fought so hard for them, for every job, for every investment and better tomorrow for those people, to Alexander Vukic. Every election, as Mr. Vulin said, clearly shows you that these people living in Kosovo and Metohija know best who cares for them, who fights for them and in whose best interest it is to preserve their life and their safety. So I hope that in the next period we will have more constructive proposals, and much less demagogy and falseness. As for these two agreements and something on the agenda today, I think, above all, Mr Risticevic said everything in his opening statement and as an authorised representative. I think any accession to world organisations that count more than 56 countries is very good for our agriculture. The shifts we see in every sense are a clear indication that investment in agriculture is a good investment, but what particularly delights me as a young man is the fact that more and more young people decide to deal with agriculture, to participate in that and the incentives that you as the Ministry of Agriculture give, subsidies have proved to be the right thing to do. It's something you have to keep working on and I think Mr. Nedimovic recognizes it very well. Everything that is invested in agriculture will come back multiple times, and that is why this agreement is very good, and I am glad to be able to discuss it, but first of all, to vote for it. However, Mr. Vulin, as often as you and Mr. Sinisha Mali are here, you can also get these personalized cards for these bases, because in this way you show that our country's security, as well as our economy, are the key things based on the Serbian Government's policy. This agreement comes at a moment that is very important for our country, when the promise of President Alexander Vukic is fulfilled that we will deal with organised crime. I think in your last sentence of today, every asset we can use in the fight against organised crime, corruption or any kind of crime in our country is welcome and we need it. I hope that we and other countries will continue to develop this kind of relationship and sign these agreements. But, Mr. Minister, I just want to take advantage of your presence and discuss what's going on these days and it's about President Alexander Vukic's safety and everything that comes out for days as something new, some new information about how the investigation is going on. In the previous period I asked you several times, and you answered me, thank you for that, for the involvement of Chaba Dera, who, meanwhile, was sentenced to life imprisonment, to life imprisonment, and he himself admitted that he had received from more than two clans an offer to commit the murder of President Alexander Vukic. In view of the fact that two snipers have been found in the last major action of the police breaking this clan, the question is, what is the connection? What concerns me particularly is the fact that in this fight against the mafia, which is dangerous for every citizen of our country, the mafia does not share members on one side or the other, but only cares about the personal interest, I'm only interested in what else we're going to hear and why is there no support for the part of the opposition that predicates to power, even if it's declarative? We haven't heard yet that the state is doing a good job, we haven't even heard that the MPs are doing a good job, and these same people are fighting the mafia and crime for better and safer tomorrow, every citizen and every child in our country. What I want for the very end, dear minister, and I'm pressed, I can't use that term, I'm only asked to pass this on to the tide, on Sunday night I got information from a girl who grew up with me, who went to elementary school with me, today all the media passed on, yesterday was the International Women's Day holiday, but parallel to that, something disastrous happened, and I believe that you're already being directed, but I'm taking this opportunity to ask you for an opinion, because it was something that got the public excited. In fact, it concerns a group that is located on a social network or as it is now called, a telegram correspondence network, where more than 36,000 people exchange images, videos, videos, messages, former or current girls, women, whatever it is now defined, lovers, in a different form and there are changing some different vulgarities. A large number of ladies, girls, and even more dangerous, girls, are affected by it. What concerns me and where I certainly believe the Home Office will have to deal with is the fact that in these groups some people are discussing and asking, asking, asking if there are any other younger girls. Unfortunately, I don't know what the possibility is in this technological sense that these things are being solved and that they're responding to it, but my obligation is as a MP and as someone who is indirectly referred to and found out, and I can see that today's media transmitted it, to direct you to all of this, I believe you know, but also to ask you to respond to something like that and to react. Also, a girl who first courageously stepped forward and debated it received the most terrible possible threats, and as far as she goes in the bizarres of members of those groups, they also show the fact that they compete in this predatory sense, where they place pictures of women who are in the store, at the bus station, who walk freely in the city, they publish their pictures in that group, then ask who they are, what they are and where they are from, and then someone who recognizes them sends a link to their Instagram or name, last name and address. It's about the great danger that lurks in every woman, girl, and girl. I ask you, dear Minister, that according to what is happening and what is current, to calm the public and to support the girls and women who are victims of it, pay attention to that. That's what I'm gonna end up with, for mothers, women, sisters, grandmothers, great-grandmothers or any woman in the world, one day's attention isn't enough. If you don't give it and we don't keep it for the rest of 360 and change days, then I don't think it's necessary to do that one day. So I congratulate you, with a small delay, International Women's Day March 8th, and I want each other to be even more beautiful and even more successful, and I am convinced that the policy of the SNS, which, for the first time now in this number of trust, will give to the ladies, in this light and in that sense, continue to develop and support the ladies, because you are the pillar of our society. For you, Minister, I would like more of these good agreements, I would like you to take better care of our country, the next policy of President Alexander Vukic and the complete government of Serbia. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3740	I thank the People's MP, Alexander Mirkovic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3741	I'd just like to make one little correction. On that page or whatever it is called that something where the photos appear, no pictures of girls, women, mistresses or whatever, photographs of human beings of the female appear. Photos appeared that were not allowed to appear and that no one had given consent to appear. It's a serious act. The police have one constantly open processing, a constant action called Armageddon, which deals with pedophilia, which deals with any possibility of paedophilia, whether it's work or something through social networks, the Internet, the recording of pornographic material, the sharing of pornographic material, whatever. So, through Armageddon, we include this, but besides that, I came to the Assembly this morning to talk to Director Rebic and he has already given appropriate orders, in the sense that the Criminal Police Administration is dealing with this particular side and what we have been able to see through the media. So, this man, if right now, this term "man" is true in a biological sense, is true in anthropological terms, but man is not just a being because he walks on two legs and has a spine, you're a man because you have a certain system of values that you're holding. So, in the absence of a better word, I'm going to say "man," but these aren't people, those who can step on someone's privacy, those who can step on and abuse someone's trust, like these bad guys did on that page and post photos of these women and girls. They'll be the subject of our processing, we'll find them and we'll punish them. Be absolutely sure that in Serbian society, such a thing will not be tolerated. No one, no one's photograph, no matter how and whenever it's created, can, without the consent of anyone who's in the photo, publishes it and hopes it goes unpunished. If they think they're bigger men because they're living on someone and they've abused someone's trust, so now they're big guys because they're releasing a picture of some kid or some woman who was so good or so naive that they believe that they're real men, so they know that they're going to get to know the Ministry of the Interior and that they're certainly going to be punished as they deserve, we're going to do everything we can to get them off the grid, of course, but we're going to find those who set it up. Please, everyone who thinks you're on that page, that you have any knowledge or that they're members of your family, please help us be faster and more efficient, tell us, we're on the same mission, such scum must not ruin any human life, and in this way destroys someone's life and we must not allow it all together, of course, the Ministry of Interior in the first place. So, the answer to your question or to your finding is – this morning, Director Rebić, on my request, ordered it to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3742	I thank the Minister of the Interior. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3743	Dear Members, we have before us a proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals. The adoption of this bill in the National Assembly, through the International Cereal Council, as an intergovernmental organisation, will speed up international co-operation on grain trade and provide Serbia's contribution, market stability, and the improvement of global food security. The International Cereals Council, contributes to the stability of the cereals market and to the improvement of global food security. These are objectives that are sought through improving market transparency through information exchange, analysis and consultation on the market and development policies. Market conditions for cereals, rice and olives are observed on a daily basis through daily reports and the maintenance of web information services. The International Cereals Council has the capacity to implement the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals, to discuss current and perspective developments in the cereals market, as well as to monitor changes in national cereals policy and their market implications. Serbia joined the International Cereal Council in April 2020 as the 57th member and thus joined the world's largest grain producers. At that time, Serbia's admission decision states that our country is one of the most significant producers and eight in the world by export. The Council's membership allows for a rapid exchange of information on market developments, current trends and more important topics in this area. I believe that all this information must be made available to farmers, in order to make better plans, but also to improve production. One of the trends is to invest more and more in irrigation systems, to make farmers less dependent on weather disasters, primarily droughts. In fact, corn with wheat is the most important agricultural culture in most countries of Europe and the world. In Vojvodina, corn is sown every year at about 600,000 hectares, producing about 4.7 million tonnes. Although these results are very serious, so is Vojvodina, i.e. The Republic of Serbia ranks among the first five European yellow-gold producers, it is known that many countries achieve significantly higher yields of corn per hectare. Due to increasingly pronounced climate change, long-term droughts should be considered as less or more regular occurrences. When droughts occur, farmers expect their damage caused by droughts to be compensated by countries from funds for elemental disasters. It can be done one year, but it's certainly not a long-term solution. I don't think it's rational for funds to be used to reduce the damage. On the contrary, the means should be used to increase technological training that enables farmers to secure protection from climate change, but also more productive production with greater profits. It is a chance to increase the competitiveness of domestic production through technological improvement. It is important to invest as much as possible in irrigation systems and this should be a priority investment for each producer of corn. Also, I think it's important to improve the quality of homemade grain. This can be achieved by awakening the farmer's awareness of selecting varieties that make good yields and fully applying all agro-technical measures, i.e. selecting quality between quantity and quality. Everywhere in the environment, for example. in Hungary, Romania or Croatia have some kind of incentive for certain types of quality, so we, as one of the major exporters, could be part of a quality grain system. This also protects and helps producers themselves and improves their independence in the cereals market. As regards the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the state of Palestine in the area of security co-operation, the agreement regulates, among other things, the strengthening of co-operation in the field of fighting organised crime and terrorism, high-tech crime, the prevention of drug trafficking and trafficking, as well as co-operation in the area of emergency situations. It is another security agreement that Serbia is establishing with different countries in the world. The agreement is important, as it is important for countries to co-operate, collect, analyse and exchange information in the fight against crime and terrorism, so the SDPS parliamentary group will support both agreements in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3744	Thank you. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is four and a half minutes. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, National MP Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3745	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers Vulin, dear Mr Katanic, the Single Serbia parliamentary group always has great attention to access to all laws relating to agriculture and improving the position of agricultural producers in Serbia. Today's law concerns grain trade, and we will support the proposed law in the voting day. What is important to pass a law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals? Because accession to the International Cereals Council has accelerated international co-operation in grain trade, it has contributed to market stability as well as to the improvement of global food security. Otherwise, the annual conference of grainers organised by the Council is one public forum where international buyers and sellers, representatives of industry, are gathered, it is one opportunity to sexe, to determine the reasons, i.e. problems, but also solutions related to better food market transparency, as well as to speed up food safety. Unfortunately, the pandemic has not bypassed agriculture around the world, so we have incredible leaps on the world's grain market. The current stock market situation indicates that slowdown is slow to see. In December, we had a decline in the prices of wheat, corn and soy, according to the Novi Sad Production Stock Exchange. We know that for the past 12 years, the price of cereals has not crossed 18 dinars, and therefore it is not the government's fault, nor the resolution ministry, but we need to see who regulates the Serbian stock market, where the grain is stored, who has it. That it does not happen that an ordinary agricultural producer who does not have a storage capacity is cut off, because there are always concerns that the percentage of humidity or the percentage of casting is high and is paid 15 or 16 dinars, not even 18, and on the other hand, fuel and lubricating went several times up. As I was preparing for today's discussion, I noticed that the price of corn was good in early 2021 and that this was due to financial funds starting to invest in money by buying on the world stock exchanges of agricultural products. We are in February, i.e. Resolute Minister Nedimovic signed a Protocol on the Export of Serbian Corn to China. That's good for Serbia because Serbia has good, quality corn. An export surplus of about three and a half million tonnes may satisfy the need for the world's largest importer of corn, which imports about 18.5 million tonnes. We know that certain countries, such as Ukraine and Russia, have introduced quotas for corn exports, to calm the price on their market but to protect consumers. We haven't introduced quotas since we've got enough. Our country, or in the last year, had a contribution of about eight million tons. Our average consumption is about 4.5 tonnes and we are in the top ten corn exporters in the world. I have a question for Minister Nedimovic, and since he is not here, I will ask you, Mr Katanic, which is - does Serbia have the capacity to increase production, given that the protocol with China is signed? And to encourage our agricultural producers to increase their production, of course, when we meet the needs of our market, I said that it was about 4.5 and that the surplus would be bigger and that we would therefore speed up our farmers. I also wanted to touch the spring sowings, because I was interested in whether the ministry had a strategy that at this time pandemics would protect not only large agricultural producers but also the average agricultural producer in Serbia, to allow it to have a guaranteed price, not only for cereals but for all agricultural products, because by surviving not only the average but also for the smallest agricultural producer in Serbia, we could burn about the survival of the village, about returning young people to the countryside, in the extreme survival of agriculture, because Serbia was the land of farmers. A few weeks ago, JS President Dragan Markovic Palma presented problems in his assembly presentation on how to stop the import of meat and help the agricultural producer because the state gave a maximum of grain subsidies beyond the living measure of cows, sheep, pigs and so on. There's something that's not remembered by farmers, which is that the price of live scale has fallen a lot, again as a consequence of the pandemic. For example, last year the price of the pig was 300 dinars, this year it was 220 dinars, the price of concentrates increased by 20%, so a bag of 20 kilos was costing 1,000 dinars, now it costs 1,200 dinars, and not to mention all of that. We need to regulate meat to encourage farmers to rebuild livestock funds. It is not a problem to import meat, but first to allow us to place on the Serbian market meat produced in Serbia. And this government has helped the agricultural producers greatly with subsidies, but if we don't do prevention and protection, they're throwing away all the money we give out of the budget to the agricultural producers. The resolution ministry advocates helping, and a few years ago a "500 cooperatives in 500 villages" of Serbia was launched, which revived the agricultural cooperative in Serbia and up to today, more than 600 agricultural cooperatives were founded and each newly established cooperative received grants of 7.5 million dinars, while complex cooperatives received about 60 million dinars. And it's the first time since World War II that the state has been involved in the cooperative resuscitation programme, including the survival of the village, with one of the most direct actions. It is for every praise, because it speaks precisely about the state's determination to help the overall development of agriculture and to give that necessary impulse to bring farmers together. We know that up until about ten years ago, the cooperative had just shut down and disappeared, and that the idea of association, especially for small farmers, was hard to accept, given the poor experience of privatisation and market difficulties backwards when I was talking up to about 10 years ago. I look forward to the fact that more and more young agricultural producers have begun to join together and have understood what cooperatives mean, because only such associations can respond to the survival of the market and that is, in fact, the best answer to the challenges of the globalised market. What we should be working on is the formation of a cooperative in the mountainous and mountainous regions, because unfortunately, because of the emigration and the age structure, it is underdeveloped. Unique Serbia believes that the Ministry of Agriculture equally and evenly cares about agricultural producers throughout Serbia. In the voting day, JS will support the proposed law, as well as other points on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3746	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. The word is made by the People's MP Dr. Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3747	Thank you, Vice President. In the context of today's debate, I will talk about the proposal for a law on the validation of the Convention and on the trade in cereals. The accession of the Republic of Serbia to the International Cereal Council is of great importance for our agriculture, especially for the production and transport of cereals. As the eighth country in the world after the export of cereals, we were admitted almost a year ago to the International Cereal Council, and by obtaining full membership in this organization we entered the group of the world's largest producers of cereals. From this membership we expect benefites for our further production and placement of cereals. By the way, this is next to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, an organization that has the largest number of information on cereals. Therefore membership is a recognition of our country, our producers, our business associations, as well as our scientific institutes in the area of agriculture. To remind us that Serbia's special area of AP Vojvodina back in the second Yugoslavia was a cereal that could feed Europe in difficult years at the time of the break-up of the SFRY and when we were under sanctions, and when the economy collapsed because of the transition, we had a large production and a large stock reserve thanks to which we had overcome these crises. That's why I was free and now I'm free to say - the grain kept us, thank him. That's why it's important that we always have enough grain to increase the seeded surfaces, but also to ensure safe placement and good prices for our producers. A major role must be played by the state, precisely because grains are a strategic product. Cereals are essentially the basis of human nutrition and therefore their production is closely related to quality of life and quality of nutrition. This is especially true in developing countries where food shortages cause dramatic consequences and hunger. The pandemic Kovid 19 contributed to this lack of food at global level last year, which left the consequences of mankind's overall life. The most affected are extremely undeveloped countries. That is why it is precious that Serbia is in line with the countries of large grain producers, as well as large exporters, so that our surplus grains can reach those countries that do not have enough production. Even better positioning of Serbia in the world market for cereals should contribute precisely to our membership in the World Cereal Council, which for the purposes of its members and other users owns an electronic database of relevant data on the quantities of cereals produced on prices, on supply and demand. This means for Serbia as a member that it will be able to plan more precisely the development of this sector of agriculture and to ensure a better placement of its surplus grains. What I'd like to point out is the quality of our cereal. This unquestionably contributes to our institutes, scientific research institutions that have been dealing with production and seed for decades, and above all, domestic varieties. When it comes to cereals, I would especially like to quote here the Institute of Corn in Zemun Polje and the Institute of War and Vourage in Novi Sad, whose merit is very important in our becoming the eighth country in the world to export corn. I would only list some of the data on the work of our institutes to illustrate what wealth lies in them. The Institute in Zemun Polje is a producer of ZP hybrids of corn, soybeans and strenuous cereals. The gene bank contains 5,500 samples of domestic foreign maize genotypes, have six research cells and 1,400 hectares of its own processing area on which cereal seeds are produced. The Novo Sad Institute for War and Vourage has 1,500 registered varieties and hybrids, and seed corn exports to 33 countries. These resources are also important because exporting grain seeds is an extremely significant export potential for our agriculture. In essence, the real effect is stimulated by exports of semi-products and products, not just raw materials. It is important that we also pursue this trend in the field of cereals, because we can export grain products on this plan except for cereals and seeds. This applies to all sectors of agriculture, warfare, vegetables, fruit growing, livestock farming. Serbia has a huge agricultural potential to be exploited. How important the application of science in agriculture is that we see it from the work of the institutes I was talking about. As I am a member of a single institute, I would also mention the importance of the Institute for the Application of Science in Agriculture, the Institute of Fruiting in Cačka, the Institute of Agriculture, the Institute of Economics of Agriculture, the Institute of Forestry, whose results are visible and valuable. I would also take the opportunity to draw attention to the Institute of Potatoes, which existed in Guca by 2010, and produce homemade varieties of potato seed that were among the best European varieties. It would be good if the work of this Institute was restored and improved, because in this vegetable culture, whose great producer we are now increasingly using imported seed varieties. In the context of the different information that we get from the media on the import of potatoes, even fries, I think that we should stimulate as a state and also protect domestic production, but also educate our producers and direct the types of agricultural production. Our incentive policy in primary agricultural production should continue to be focused on small and medium-sized producers, and large producers should be encouraged to build processing facilities in order not only to sell raw products but to process them. So the work of our producers pays more and it's more stimulating. It is clear that the international market, which is very demanding, comes first by producing raw materials, i.e. raw fruit, vegetables, cereals, but we need to stimulate and develop the food industry with state incentives, and perhaps more can be used for this purpose pre-accession EU funds. Serbia has more international agreements in the area of trade and agriculture, and they should be a place to export agricultural products and food in general. What encourages us to become significant exporters to large and very demanding world markets, such as the EU market, the Russian Federation and China, and to ensure a more permanent presence on the world market for our producers and intermediaries, it is important to provide three basic criteria for agricultural production. The three standards were defined a few years ago by the Ministry of Agriculture as 3K of Serbian Agriculture, which is quality, quantity and continuity. In this way, in the world, large producers and export markets will be more open and secure and we will make the best use of the unlimited potential of our agriculture. Finally, I would like to say, as is our authorised representative, who said this, that the SPS parliamentary group will support the confirmation of the Convention on the Production of Cereals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3748	I thank the People's MP Dr. Ljubinko Rakonjec. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3749	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, respected ministers, we face an extremely important agreement for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Palestine on raising the level of co-operation on security. Sure, security is a matter of all kinds of questions, and certainly we should do everything possible to make our country and our countrymen travel anywhere and welcome one such agreement. And the SFRY still had great relations with the Arab world, and you're in good tone, you have a great resonation. Palestine is not only for the Arab world, for the entire Islamic world a special issue and a special place, a sensitive place and our president knows that well, who has shown that he is a great friend of the Arabs, and the Arabs have also shown that they are great friends of this country. You mentioned Turkey. Over a thousand Turkish companies are working in the Republic of Serbia. Over a billion euros is an annual exchange, and it goes to more. And you've noticed, indeed, Palestine and the Palestinian issue are very important for all Islamic countries, and their spokesman today is Turkey. What I'm saying is that the SFRY was among the first to admit Palestine in 1989, and that the Republic of Serbia has done a lot for this country. In 2011, Serbia voted for Palestine's presence in UNESCO. Also, that Palestine was accepted as a state observer in the UN and there was the Republic of Serbia voting for, etc., etc. Therefore, I would also like to remind myself that I am really insisting and asking and asking that we try as a state to have a balanced relationship with the Palestinian issue, because, above all, it is in the interest, in our vital interest, of the state, in the interest of the recognition of international law, which we so call upon, because the same UN Resolution 478, Jerusalem is today being treated as occupied territory and it is forbidden to move or open an embassy in Jerusalem to all countries. Therefore, I don't think Serbia should be in a hurry, should reconsider its decision and if it can delay and avoid such a decision. I say once again, it's our public interest and it's something we need to have special sensitivity and I think we have it. As for the second point, I'm a doctor and I treat food primarily as a cure. Food is medicine. I can say that the genetic potential of life's ability, what science defines as the maximum length that's written in our life-genotype, is 120, 150 years. However, unquality diet, poor food, unhealthy food, unhealthy environment around us, unhealthy life, we reduce that length of life. I think Serbia can be praised for really improving agricultural production, achieving on parcels, having extremely high yields that exceed our needs, about 1.5 million of us have heard that we produce grains, or wheat, and export around 700 000, and that's something we really need to praise. That's why we and this agreement will be warmly supported in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3750	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Adriana Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3751	The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, is on the agenda of the draft law confirming the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals, which was submitted by the Government, which forms an integral part of the 1995 International Cereals Agreement. The proposed law for the ultimate objective is to improve international co-operation in all aspects of grain trade, promote the spread of international trade in cereals including the removal of barriers to trade in unfair and discriminatory practices that our farmers have faced in previous periods, but also to provide the greatest possible contribution to the stability of international trade in cereals, improve food safety and contribute to the development of countries whose economies are largely dependent on the commercial sales of cereals. The members are obliged to provide information, reports and records to the Council and the Executive Committee on the supply and demand of cereals, the quantity, currently prevailing costs of the transport of cereals, and thus the mechanism for the protection of members' participants has been developed. Signatory of the Convention. How important farmers and agricultural products are for the Republic of Serbia is the fact that around 70% of Serbia's total territory makes up agricultural land, that there are 1,305,426 farmers who make up 17.3% of the total population. One of them is my father, the retired major, who returned to the country, to his hearth and dedicated to agriculture. I must also tell you that as a MP, I am not ashamed to help in the country and that, at the time of the season, my hands are blistering and dirty from work, as well as my colleague, Dr Darko Laketić, my dear colleague Ana Čaapić, or the honourable Member Marijan Risticevic. On the contrary. Just as MPs, we are proud of such work. And it's not just the mining bread of my Borans and the Mayan bread of nine crusts. The same weight has just the bread of a farmer. They all have common characteristics, which is that they are honest, honest, and valuable people. You know, nowadays, individual representatives of the opposition, when they want to praise a man, say he is a successful, educated and wealthy man, while members of the SNS say only one word to such a man – host. It is precisely thanks to Minister of Agriculture Nedimovic and the results of our president, who speak not only about the maturity of democracy in Serbia, but also about the combination of traditional and modern, in the day of voting, together with his fellow MPs, Alexander Vukic, for what is most sacred to us, for our children, that I will support the draft law on the Convention. Of course, I congratulate Minister Alexander Vulin on the results so far. Based on everything that's been said, for the end of my presentation in the tide, I would like to order the following – a Serb host living, lived by our President Aleksandar Vukic, who lives in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3752	I thank the People's Parliament Adriana Pupovac. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3753	Thank you. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, esteemed ministers with associates, when we talk about the security of our country and all its activities in this matter, we cannot help but return a year and a few days back when we adopted the National Security Strategy at this home in your presence, Ministers and at the initiative of President Alexander Vukic, as well as the Strategy of Defence. We are all witnessing that the Republic of Serbia daily closely monitors changes in the environment and adapts its security and defence policy to these changes in order to best protect and achieve its national interests that we have then clearly and defined, so that some of them are reminded of: preserving the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, preserving the internal stability and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, preserving the existence and protection of the Serbian people wherever they live. Never did the state of Serbia say by that year 2019 that its national interest is to preserve the life of Serbs no matter where they live and it is never said that Republika Srpska, its security and preservation are the priorities of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. The state of Serbia has in this way very clearly formulated and told everyone what its national interest is and what the basic values we will defend are. What we must never forget is the fact that no one has ever thought to define it before. With the National Security Strategy, we have clearly defined the basic challenges, risks and threats to our country's security. It is well known to all that the main political threat of the Republic of Serbia is a false republic of Kosovo, a failed political project led by the US-led NATO pact to honor Cypriot terrorists and drug dealers. This is probably the first time in the history of human civilization that anyone in the world has witnessed terrorists, criminals and drug cartels trying to make a state. In that attempt to make a state for the last three or four years, they've been trying to make a so-called. Kosovo's army and that the convicted terrorists and criminals arm you with even heavy weapons. Just imagine what you can get once a drug cartel associated with paramilitary and terrorist formations gives you heavy weapons. Can anyone else in the world imagine understanding that? What's most embarrassing is the fact that these calls are being brought to the head by war criminals, people who have not responded to their crimes, not because they are not guilty or because they have not committed these crimes, but because they have succeeded in killing all potential witnesses who have been able to testify to their terrible crimes. What's scariest is the fact that these same political sponsors of this drug formation in the area of the southern Serbian province today are silent about the increasingly loud stories of the formation of the great Albania, the formation, which, to remind ourselves, came out of the sick minds of Nazi leaders before the start of World War II. No one more honest and normal could even think of such a sick idea. It is just that some seem to have recalculated, as it must be clear to everyone in the world that Serbia is no longer a banana state that will release convicted terrorists and criminals from prison, because they have the political support of any world force and these cells, and prison cells to fill their heroes and warlords, defenders and martyrs who then shamefully delivered to The Hague tribunal. Serbia today is an independent and sovereign state that respects its defenders and heroes, and with terrorists and criminals is being accounted for in all legal ways by protecting all its national interests. On that occasion, when we adopted the National Security Strategy, as one of the main threats to Serbia's security, we defined organized crime, the monster we've been fighting for years and the evil we're going to, I'm convinced, as soon as possible, let's say so, stand by the neck. We are witnessing all the horrors that individual clans, both from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the surrounding countries, committed during a previous period, and this is indeed terrible, inhuman, beastly, equal to the crimes committed by the Cypriot terrorist gangs during the 1990s on the territory of the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija. What's at this point, I think, is much more important to me, i.e. Most importantly, it is a solution, first of all, President Alexander Vukic, your ministers, the entire government, of course, primarily the MUP, the BIA, but also the whole society, the security-inflicted solution that in this, to call it, the war of the state of Serbia will bring victory. I think it must be clear to all that as many individuals as think they are strong and organized, that anyone who tries to threaten the security and security of the state of Serbia and its citizens must be made clear that they will get a firm response from the state, that they will be prevented from carrying out their intentions, because Serbia is today well-organised, stable and particularly strong state that is ready to respond at the same time to any security challenge and to deal with any threat as big as it is. Serbia will never again be silent to anyone, never again will it allow the safety and safety of any of its citizens or any of the Serb people at risk, no matter where he lives and no matter how strong he thinks he is and can do so. Dear Ministers, at the end of my address, I would like to thank all the members of the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, you and, of course, President Aleksandr Vukic for their energy invested in the fight so far, and to wish that we all wish that we could end this fight as soon as possible and bring down some normal flows, in order to turn to our primary goal in peace - the economic and economic recovery and recovery of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3754	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Ljubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3755	The President-in-Office, honourable Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honourable MPs, is today ahead of us with a proposal for a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the area of security co-operation. In the day to vote, the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, this bill will support this proposal for the reason that this agreement should contribute to the strengthening of ties between our two countries, namely with the aim of achieving co-operation between the two ministries in the security co-operation segment, will contribute to a faster and better flow of information, exchange of experiences and strengthening police co-operation between the two countries. The Republic of Serbia and the State of Palestine have good long-standing and friendly ties. We proved that on a political basis. We are very grateful to Palestine for giving us this trust and for its respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to refer to the events that marked the previous days and congratulate the members of the MUP on all the actions they've carried out in the fight against organised crime. Those actions gave the MUP a strong blow to the mafia who at one point thought it was stronger than the state. Our country led by President Alexander Vukic has so many times shown and proved to be a strong country in every way. That proves this fight against organized crime this time. No one will and no one can be protected. Anyone who wronged the law must and should answer. Anyone who thought he could threaten the president, members of his family, must answer for that. In addition to a strong fight against organised crime, we courageously lead the fight for investment that our president presented three days ago, a new investment plan for our country in the coming period. This is among other things "Fruskogorski Corridor", a bypass around Novi Sad, a bypass around Loznica, a bypass around Kragujevac, will be extended "Dunavska highway", one leg to Negotina, the second leg to Kladov. The Chačak-Pozega road to St. Nicholas will be completed, as will the bridge over the Danube that is planned for Vinci. Also, the Belgrade-Old Paz Railway. While our neighbours, and the rich and good part of the EU, are not even thinking about investment, the only thing they care about is how to contribute most to providing their citizens with vaccines. Our country is fighting very well in terms of vaccines. We've been fighting for 2,648,000 doses of vaccines so far. Our President Alexander Vukic welcomed 500,000 doses of Chinese vaccine a few days ago. Serbia is among the first two countries in Europe, even in the EU, although we are not in the EU, which is the number of people vaccinated. When no one had vaccines, Serbia had vaccines. When no one had medical equipment, Serbia was getting it. When no one could and wanted, whatever you want him to call it, to help the neighbors in the environment, Serbia could and could. Serbia, don't forget, sent a plane to Italy when it was the most difficult with medical equipment. Also, Serbia has helped countries in the environment, until the last time Serbia sent vaccines to both northern Macedonia and BiH and Montenegro and Republika Srpska. Once again, the Serbian people justified the inscription on the International Red Cross building in Geneva: "Be as human as it was in human Serbia in 1885". In addition to fighting for the health and preservation of the lives of our citizens, Aleksandar Vukic, as I said, is also fighting for new investments, new jobs, new infrastructure projects. In order for our country to continue through prosperity and progress, it is essential that we bring this fight against organised crime to an end in the most efficient way, that anyone who thought he could, and where he did so, threaten the president of the state, his family, listen to them, strut with criminals, and go unpunished, must answer. The country will come out of this war as a winner because it is the only way Serbia should go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3756	I thank the MP Natasa Ljubisic. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3757	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today a set of very important and constructive draft laws, and I would personally refer to the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the state of Palestine in the area of security co-operation. First of all, I feel the need and duty to thank the state of Palestine for its principled view of not recognising Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence. Also, once again, thanks to Palestine for opposing the entry of the fake state of "Kosovo" into certain international organisations. With this view, Palestine has shown that it respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, that it is a responsible and reliable partner, namely the desire to improve bilateral relations between Serbia and Palestine is fully justified. It is undeniable that there is a traditional friendship and that we have very good relations with Palestine, hence Serbia as a responsible state decided to work to strengthen co-operation with Palestine in various forms and different areas. A constant and tireless effort to strengthen and develop the relationship between our two countries reflects the right friendship that exists between Serbia and Palestine and as a result of this responsible policy and this kind of friendly relationship has created this very agreement. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the state of Palestine in the area of security co-operation has a clear goal, which is to improve co-operation primarily in the area of the fight against crime. To be more precise, this agreement obliges this party to co-operate in the fight against crime in all its forms, with special emphasis on terrorism and terrorist financing, organised crime, illegal trafficking in weapons and dangerous substances, trafficking in human beings, smuggling, criminal acts against intellectual property, high-tech crime, civil defence and rescue, counterfeiting, possession and use of counterfeited documents and money and illegal trafficking in narcotics and psychotropic substances. The Agreement also provides for an area of civil defence and rescue, as well as other forms of co-operation agreed by the parties. Human trafficking, drug trafficking, arms trafficking are considered the largest and most profitable global criminal activities. The terrorism that is also the subject of this agreement has a global transnational character. So there is no country in the world, regardless of the degree of its military or economic development, which is immune to terrorism, as well as the previously mentioned criminal activity. In doing so, the conclusion of such agreements is not only an unnecessarily necessary, but also a commitment by all of us, as the goal justifies the means, and the goal is the security of Serbia and its citizens. That is why I, and hopefully my colleagues, support and we will vote in favour of this, as well as other proposals, in the hope that they will rely on the fight for strong and safe Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3758	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. The next is National MP Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3759	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3760	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, today I will talk about the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the area of security co-operation. First of all, I must express my pleasure to congratulate you, Ministers, as well as the BIA, for an extraordinary action taken when you arrested this beastly criminal group, I mean Belivuk and Miljkovic. Thanks to this quick action, our president is alive today. I don't want to prejudge things, but if anyone finds an arsenal of as many weapons and snipers, it's certain they're not going hunting deer, but to kill someone who's very important. It's not even a sniper racketeering, it's different. I just don't understand what makes people happy? Is it possible so much that it's money, an enormous amount of money, 150 houses, or is it family, happiness, inner harmony, peace? It's not good. This is Serbia, a country always known for its love, empathy. Why all of a sudden so much hate? Whether or not it is ordered will be decided by someone at other instances. I would appeal to my bishop Velimirovic, who said: "Oh God, God, let the Serbs worship, and when they worship, they will also agree and multiply. “ I think that’s the point of the story — love, not decapitation, murder, child rape, and all that. I hope that crime will end, and one of the objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, above all the Serbian Progressive Party, is the fight against crime and corruption, as well as good foreign policy. We talk about crime and corruption every day, and I am sure that you, associated with other instances, will do good things for Serbia, because every citizen of the Republic of Serbia must be protected from such criminal groups as these. As far as foreign policy is concerned, thanks to the charisma of the President of the Republic of Mr. Vukic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we today have great credibility in the world, we are a very respectable country, which can be seen in different ways. First of all, we make strong agreements, which means we create good bilateral relations, which is also the most important thing for foreign policy, and then we make friendships. Had it not been for great respect, friendship, but also for partnerships with the People's Republic of China, we today would not have a million and a half Chinese vaccines in Serbia. Then there are also Russian vaccines, but Fieser and AstraZenek. We're inoculating at this point... I'm making little dipressions, I just want to say, I have to look back at the government, this sacrificial work, the president, the doctors. I just have to. I'll make it easy on the deal. So today we have vaccinated over two million and 350,000 people, which is great, and re-exploited 695 thousand people. I beg all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is not an obligation, but it is very good to receive a vaccine and to definitely take this monster, called Kovid-19, from our homes. I guess that's enough already. Another appeal to young people. I was young, I was distracted, I know what youth means, but don't party. Hold on for another month, two days. Come on, let's be responsible, because of ourselves, because of those full hospitals, because there's no room in Belgrade anymore, goes further through Serbia because of doctors who have been working day and night for a year and two months. Guys, there won't be anyone to treat us. That's the point. Let's be organized, normal. There will be opportunities for parties, there will be opportunities for celebrations. I missed a lot of things, too, but I'll make it up to you when this monster gets through. As far as the agreement is concerned, thanks to, I said, the integrity and charisma of our president, I must mention, of course, always the People's Republic of China with which we have extraordinary relations, but also the Russian Federation, but also other countries. So we're working with Europe, with the countries of Bricatus, more India, next to the Russian Federation and China, and Brazil, but also with non-classified ones. That should also be pointed out, as none of these countries have recognised so-called independent Kosovo, because it is an imaginary creation of sick minds. There is only one single Republic of Serbia with two autonomous provinces, which are AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo. Thanks to the respect again, the respectability, of course, there is Mr Dacic, who at the time was doing foreign policy and Mr Vukic, 16 countries have withdrawn recognition of the so-called independent Kosovo, and the fictional creation and I will no longer. As for Mr. Vukic, he also made the first agreement in the region between Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Serbia and Albania on Mali Schengen, which is of paramount importance to our economy. Whoever comes to invests will invest a lot more in the region than in the separatist states. What does that mean? Well, improvement in economy, then flow of people, capital, goods, recognition of qualifications. Absolutely better and peace in the region. As the government of the Republic of Serbia and its president are doing, it may be best to say a humanitarian gesture, or one way to show how much we want to be in good relations with our neighbours, is to assign a vaccine, or a certain dose to Northern Macedonia, but also to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska and Montenegro. That's how it works. It's called high-grade empathy. I think every normal man in Serbia feels the same way. As for this deal with Palestine, it's a great honor to Palestine, so tormented. Of course she recognises the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. She had her own independence in 1988. It's about this deal. Namely, it's about improving relationships. First of all, we're making friends, and that's why we want crime to be eradicated in both countries. In particular, this is about terrorism, or financing terrorism. We also want to prevent one of the territories from being prepared for any kind of terrorism or anything. Also, we want to prevent any kind of human trafficking, smuggling, as well as intoxicating drugs and everything else. Of course it's very important to protect personal data. Each country, of course, is passing laws on the protection of personal data, thus treating the people concerned. There must not be any third party information given until these two sides agree on how information exchange is conducted, of course, diplomatically, but there are police, coming to the field, people from the Republic of Serbia are going to Palestine, their people are coming here, and I am sure that another agreement will be extremely important for both countries, both for the Republic of Serbia and for the state of Palestine, and I will be pleased to vote on all these proposals in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3761	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3762	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already said that I will support this law, but that we with grains and raw materials should try to produce as much food as possible. Communism wasn't my order, it's common knowledge, but compared to the days behind us, in the last 10 years, it's had a better agricultural policy. It may be based on the agreed economy, but agriculture at the time had everything, not from field to table, but from science to table. You had scientific institutes dealing with fruit, warfare, livestock, you had the production of fruit seed material, you had the production of sorting shifts, you had the fruit material, you had the production of mineral fertilizers, you had the production of preparations, you had the production of machinery, you had the production of connection devices. I worked for five years at IMT, sold 40s and some thousands of tractors a year. People waited in line, no matter what production was high, people waited in line to buy the tractor and buy the connected machinery. We had processing facilities, before that we had combines, we had something to take off crops, we had pickers. We had processing facilities, from the production of cookies, from processing into sugar, oil, vegetable fats, etc. The processing of certain cereals as sunflowers, soybeans, wheat production of flour and oil, the production of vegetable fats, that is, what these cereals cover. In addition, we had sugar and sugar production, sugar, vegetable fats, oil, flour. This is the original basis for the development of the conditory industry. It is the product that today is lacking in Serbia to complete, have a finished, good food product and thus conquer, primarily a regional market, and for me, both the European and the Russian and Belarus markets. Today, it's hard for you to find a farm policy from science to dining room. At that time, only to make careful privatisations due to the market economy. But the grab was done, so each of them grabbed one piece, someone took the processing, someone took the pesticide production, someone took the sugar production, for three euros times three sugars. Someone took the combinations, then Saric showed up, so he was some agricultural factor, mostly a unique system that existed, was destroyed, and it's hard to close in a few years. I hope we do, first of all, because whoever wants to eat delicious bread must first sow wheat, who wants to eat a delicious fruit must plant a tree. These didn't plant us before, they didn't sow, they just wanted to. They thought and their agricultural policy came down to it – you plant a log, so you wait for the ham to pop up. That time is behind us. I believe that with a more careful agricultural policy, we can reach one good, or more good food products to raise the food industry and I think that, with the help of larger subsidies, we can do this and we need to keep the regional markets around us carefully because of the transport costs of the low and try hard to perform on the EU markets and on the markets of Russia and Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3763	Thank you. The word is Anna Belloica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3764	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, the respected citizens of Serbia, is before us today the Convention on the Trade of Cereals, which plays an extremely important role for our country. For this reason, I appeal to the esteemed fellow Members of the People to accept it as such in the day of the vote. Serbia is a traditional country mainly engaged in agriculture, and therefore every step, every new shift in agriculture for Serbia is fundamentally important. The convention needs to ensure the realization of four basic objectives. First of all, it needs to ensure international co-operation in the area of grain trade, which has indeed proved to be very significant, especially when we talk about a period of crisis. The second goal to provide is certainly this free trade in the area, when we talk about the trade in cereals, which is particularly important when we talk about developing countries as is our country. The third objective is primarily to ensure this stability, i.e. the safety of the cereals market, and of course, as the fourth goal of ensuring the creation of a forum where basic information is exchanged in this area. How important stability is, in general, the safety of the food market, the best we can see in the case of a pandemic caused by a coronary virus. In fact, you had a situation where the most developed countries in the world faced a shortage of basic life supplies. You had a situation where citizens were panickingly buying certain products and thus creating supplies and actually leaving those people who didn't, without basic life supplies. Serbia has indeed shown in this field how effective it is, how vispreus it is, so even in those situations when we have lost certain foods, remember alcohol, we have managed to organize raw materials, provide them and organise them on our own and provide for our citizens and basic life supplies. Of course, due to the good management of the crisis, we have received commendation from the broad international community from the most significant institutions and when we talk about the area of finance and when we talk about the area of health. As a result, you have a situation that Serbia today is a country that is fifth in the world by the number of people vaccinated, that we have provided for our citizens as many as four types of vaccines, which you will agree with me, at this point truly luxury. That's how we showed that we really care about the lives and health of our citizens and that it's always our first priority. Of course, we have shown at these times of crisis how solid we are, so we have shown certain countries in the region that could not provide vaccines for their citizens, we have given them a certain dose of vaccines and thus shown what friendship means for Serbia, what good neighbourly relations mean for Serbia and why Serbia is the headquarters of peace and stability throughout the Balkans. When we talk about agriculture, it is a branch that has played a very important role during the crisis period. As I said, Serbia mainly deals with agriculture and what I would certainly stress is that the share of agriculture in total GDP is indeed very high. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic have recognised the importance of agriculture for our country, and for this very reason, it seems to me that today we are investing in the area of agriculture much more than decades and decades ago. I remind you that in Raca we recently opened a plant for the collection, processing and placement of honey, where agricultural producers joined together and thus provided themselves with a better position on the market and, of course, a higher price for the export of their product. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic visited this drive and showed that this is indeed an example of good practice and that other agricultural producers should join together and thus improve their position and market. What I would point out is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated significant resources, when we talk about subsidies and despite those traditional subsidies, I would certainly single out subsidies for young farmers, where farmers up to 40 years of age are given up to 1.5 million dinars, and in this way we want to encourage young people to stay in the country, to develop their businesses, and to build their families on their centuries-old hearths. However, to invest in agriculture, to develop agriculture, it was also necessary to invest in infrastructure. I, as someone who comes from the interior, can really testify what it means to build only one highway for all citizens from the interior of the Republic of Serbia. I've talked several times in this tide about the construction of a new textile factory in Raška. Today, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can boast that just a few days ago in Raška we hosted the world's most famous fashion designer Philip Plein, who expressed his desire to sew his products in our factory in Raška. It was therefore necessary to invest in infrastructure. That's why you need to build highways. That is why it is necessary to build railways, because we want to attract investors and, on the other hand, to ensure a uniform regional development that is covered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for which the SNS stands. For this reason, the budget for 2021 is focused on building capital projects, so by the end of 2021 we will start the Fruskogorski corridor, we will start building a bypass around Loznica, around Kragujevac and we will have a fully built Cačak-Požega highway. However, we were also criticised by those who have been in power for years and who have left behind nothing, who have systematically destroyed our Serbia for years, systematically destroyed the economy and taken care of only themselves and their pockets. Today, those who are in debt at the highest interest rates to raise salaries and pensions to the citizens, but only before the elections, to achieve the best result and whose debts we and our children and today pay back, are they today telling us about the level of public debt in the Republic of Serbia. It is those who have destroyed this economy and who have left half a million people out of work during the global economic crisis that today tell us how to manage the economy and what measures economic policies to implement. I remind you that Serbia is one of the few countries that behaves responsibly and takes care of the level of public debt. Almost no developed country during the pandemic period took care of the level of public debt. And you know why? Because it is necessary to provide medicines, because vaccines need to be provided, because adequate healthcare is necessary for citizens. The Republic of Serbia is acting responsibly so that we, as I said, are one of the few countries that we make sure that the level of public debt is not higher than the level of Mastricht, or 60% of the total GDP. Even so, we find the strength to build new roads, build new railways and new hospitals and provide our citizens with free health care. Once they asked Mesu Selimovic what was the most beautiful thing in life, he said it was a wish. And we had her. We had a desire to realize those highly set goals defined the moment the SNS came to power, because we wanted to leave something to remember us by for future generations. We have a duty to fight, to resist, to endure and to continue for generations to come, to leave the future generations and our children a better, better and brighter future, just as they deserve. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3765	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ilija Matejic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3766	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and, most importantly, the peoples of the Republic of Serbia, today the text of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Trade of Cereals and, as I am sure, as you already know, in accordance with Article 99. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is at the National Assembly to ratify, or confirm all international agreements when prescribed by law. If we adopt this agreement, and I don't see why we don't, Serbia will join the International Cereal Council, where we will be able to see all relevant information regarding cereals, rice and olives, that is, all information related to imports, exports and, most importantly, the price of these products on the global market, which will, of course, help our farmers. Those who deal with agriculture know this better than I do, but we saw during the previous year that our farmers were extremely satisfied with the price of corn. Everyone wondered why the price was so high and despite the very high yields and they didn't understand it, which is thanks to the good work of our government. Serbia signed an agreement with China on the export of cereals, and that is precisely why, it is only one part of which made the price so high. One Serbia cannot feed China that has two billion inhabitants. Here we must commend the work of Minister Branislav Nedimovic. He seems to have visited every village in the Republic of Serbia, was in my village, in Crepaja, but he was also in other places of my municipality such as Debeljac, Kovačica, Padina, Idvor, Samosh, Udin and Putnikova, and I believe that he was also in your inhabited place. We must also commend our country for taking care of our farmers. By the end of this month, they will receive their subsidies per hectare and the Republic is already subsidising the purchase of a 50% agricultural machinery. I'd like to explain in simple Serbian what that means. If you want to buy a tractor that costs 30,000 euros, Serbia pays you 15,000 euros, you agree with the bank to participate in 2-3 thousand euros, take credit for the rest and immediately have a new tractor. So, as a state, we have to take care of our farmers. Our domestic farmers must always have an advantage over foreign farmers, because they are the vessels of our economy. We don't have Russian oil and gas to export. Farmers make our country alive. I didn't just call today to talk about this agreement. I also called to talk about a phenomenon that is very annoying in Serbia, which is false news. We only remember when we concluded "mini Schengen" that news had emerged that imports of agricultural products from Albania and Macedonia would drop the price to our agricultural producers. And we saw that wasn't true. And as for the false news, when I mentioned it, after the previous week of me, as a first-time MP in the National Assembly, I believe he can't surprise anything, because we just remember, the Freedom and Justice Party accused my older colleague Nebojsa Bakarec and the president of the National Assembly last week of calling for someone's murder. Dear colleague, I believe it wasn't easy for you to listen to such lies about yourself. They got it out of context so much that I just don't have a word, but they didn't say anything about you. They said more about themselves, and that is what I was talking about in my first presentation to the National Assembly, what kind of message they send to other young people who need to deal with politics. Serbia needs young doctors, young lawyers, and young farmers, as well as young politicians, for our future. They're sending a clear message. And when a young man sees something like that, he'll run away from politics like the devil from the cross, as we say. And then who does politics? The same people who have been here for 30 years. And what future can our country have? And to be clear, this is my opinion for all the media, whether they prefer power or prefer the opposition. Both the government and the opposition in Serbia must fight for the vote of citizens in the election of works and ideas, not with such lies, therefore, works and ideas. But anyway, that shows a clear difference between us and them. The Serbian Progressive Party must be an avant-garde compared to all other political parties in power in the Republic of Serbia. That's what we're showing. And not only that, I can see that they're already calling for some riots and streets, unless the negotiations succeed, or if they don't win the election. As a young man, I would not support any party that invites me to come here and tear down and burn down the National Assembly. This is not my National Assembly, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Should I, Minister, come and throw rocks at the cops, break their legs and expect them to protect me from something tomorrow? As a young man, I want a cultural and orderly state, I want us to fight for our farmers, for our doctors, for our soldiers, for our entire people, and to show in part that our country's interests are above our own interests. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3767	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3768	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have two draft laws before us today, and that is one Law on the Confirmation of the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals, and the other Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the area of security co-operation. What's a common denominator of both of these bill proposals, that's security. Security is among the top priorities for the Serbian Progressive Party. In the first law, security refers to food safety, and we know that countries that have enough food and healthy drinking water will be in the near future one of the safest and safest countries. The second law concerns co-operation in the area of security of the state from organised crime, from corruption, from terrorism, from smuggling, from human trafficking, from counterfeiting travel documents, from money, from all those crimes that represent cancer not only in the Republic of Serbia, but throughout the world. That is why all the countries of the world are taking action and measures against this cancer, so that in one systematic and synchronised way they can connect and stand in the way of organised crime, terrorism, robbery, smuggling and all other criminal phenomena behind which, of course, money is illegally obtained, or dirty money. What I'm also saying is that the state has recently shown that one of its main objectives is to fight organised crime, or the mafia. These are the security forces of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of the Interior and the Security Information Agency and how they showed in one synchronised and perfectly executed action, when at the same time they arrested and put behind bars one of the most monstrosous, darkest, most criminogenic mob groups of Belivuk-Miljkovic. In this way, the state has sent a clear message that they do not exist protected and that they will apply all the means provided by law to find the monsters behind bars. I must also say that the security forces of the Ministry of Interior and the Security Information Agency have reached 1.572 listening calls from the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. Why was someone listening to the best of us? Why was someone listening to the best statesman and the greatest patriot in Serbia's recent history? Why is someone and what are the reasons for listening to the one who works day and night to make Serbia and Serbia's citizens better? The question will certainly be answered by the competent judicial authorities and we are in favour of the parliamentary group “Alexandar Vukic – For our children” that this response by the judicial authorities, of course, will arrive on time. What I must also point out is that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic has had more conversations with the Ambassador of Palestine right now to deepen our friendly relations, which are both deep and long for many years, decades back. Palestine is one of the countries that respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, which has not recognised the false state of Kosovo and, of course, has prevented the membership of the fake state of Kosovo into international organisations. The President of the Republic, together with the ambassador, also discuss the formation of a mixed group of committees, to ensure that all signed agreements are implemented to detail and accuracy. Also, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic discussed increasing the number of students from Palestine who are studying in our country because we know that in the past not so few students from Palestine have come for knowledge and academic titles just to Belgrade University. When it comes to the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals, I must say that agriculture, as a very important business branch, is in a much better position today than it used to be, that agriculture showed all its vitality at the time of the Kovida-19 pandemic, that at the time of the Kovida-19 pandemic, for the first time in 40 years, our wheat was exported to Egypt, that precisely in that period, despite the pandemic, our apple found a market in India, which has over a billion inhabitants. I must say that at the time of the pandemic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia was quick to cope, that we started producing yeast, which was not produced in Serbia, that we started producing alcohol and, of course, electronic markets, which was also of great importance for small agricultural producers who could not go to the market, but were able to sell their products through the "Electronic Markets" platform and not in any way damaged. Unlike the yellow tycoon company by 2012, it is painted in character and work, Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Tadic and the entire and yellow robbery octopus that sold agricultural combinations in delicacies, which only sold 50m euros in Vojvodina's territory, otherwise, today the country's value is 75 times higher, today the country's value per hectare of between 10 and 15 000 euros, unlike those that robbed Agrobank, by taking loans from Agrobanka, for their tycoons on which they passed laws and, of course, not paying back, they robbed Agrobanka for 84m euros. Of course, the yellow tycoon company did no harm to the state of Serbia and agriculture only in that place, they did damage that we had to do all those foreign savings that had invested money in the Agrobanks, of course to make up for their investment money. Unlike them today, Serbia has a plan, Serbia 2025, which envisions an additional 300m euros, as an incentive to agricultural production, and that is precisely for irrigation systems, for cohesion, as well as for the purchase of tractors. Serbia steps forward every day thanks to the responsible government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3769	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Nenad Barosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3770	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with a co-worker, ladies and gentlemen of Serbian citizens. Any type of bilateral or multilateral security co-operation agreements is very positive and always welcome to raise the country's overall level of security. Any exchange of information, any new data, but also any theoretical, technical and practical knowledge and experience in organised crime, terrorism, trafficking in human beings, narcotics and others, can only be positive in a safe sense. It is precisely the accent in this agreement, i.e. the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the State of Palestine in the area of security co-operation that is placed on the national authorities of the Republic of Serbia and Palestine, which, under this act, exchange information of common interest, as well as information on the means and equipment necessary to monitor and combat certain types of crime and particularly organised crime and terrorism. Why did I just highlight this member, and why am I giving him special importance and significance? Anyone today in the Republic of Serbia realistically looks at the security situation will draw the conclusion that it is, at the very least, complex and that knowledge and experience are precisely being done, but sophisticated equipment from other countries has helped resolve the monstrous acts that have shaken the Serbian public these days. So, if there was no agreement of this kind, and this very knowledge of sophisticated equipment by some of our other friendly countries, we might still be encamping in ignorance, and we might be witnessing an even scarier scenario that was obviously prepared and that would affect both Serbia and our future. It is obvious that the state has declared war on a criminal organisation that has been leading Serbia's underworld for years as the branch of one of the two Montenegrin criminal groups that are part of the international drug trade chain, which we all know is the most profitable and abnormal profit. The murders, disappearances, fear, were something that the citizens faced, practically daily, but other than that, our individual fear as citizens was one real danger from a much worse scenario, which is the complete destabilising of the country with the aim of taking over a state apparatus by criminal groups, or by bringing to power a certain group of people with the help of a criminal organisation that would in turn make the criminal organisation become, in practice, a paramilitary formation without certain restrictions. Because as different as explaining the confiscation, a really big arsenal of weapons, where most of it was weapons, so-called. long pipes? It simply raises the question of why so many weapons to a criminal organization? Imagine using that weapon at some mass rally. God forbid, of course. While it would prove who was shooting, whether it was some frenzy individual, a member of a criminal group or someone in front of the state, it would have been a certain time, and that would have led to the destabilising of the country, would have led to the mixing of foreign forces, there is also a bad media image of Serbia, there is also, most likely, a change of government, a new government that would have allowed this criminal group, I said, already, to act beyond any law, but also new authorities that would meet the requirements of foreign forces, such as Kosovo and Metohia, the Republic of Serbia, the issues of stopping our further economic strengthening and spreading our interests and our influences, the acquisition of arms, etc. Again, how else do you explain finding several sniper rifles with, indeed, the most modern optics and silencers, armored bullets, as well as the so-called shooting, or the practice of sniper shooting, rather than as a insistence or hint of destabilising the country? Simply, the criminal organization in these areas is not solving their conflict with the use of sniper weapons, but with some other weapon. So then logically and it can be concluded that it's a sniper weapon, that shooting exercise, most likely, was used to liquidate some security-interesting or protected person who may be wearing a vest, or, the highest state officials, which would lead again, I say, to destabilising the country. How else to explain the highly suspicious link between the work of state authorities and state officials, both from the MUP, security services, customs, sports associations, businesses and so on, with this same criminal group and how to explain, indeed, the frantic and amazing fact that the most important person of the Republic of Serbia is the president who has been tapped and monitored and that his talks with members of his family with his closest associates have been recorded, 1572 talks by the president of Serbia are documented. Logically, the question arises why? Certainly not that those documents would be deposited in a drawer, or that they would be used for arson, but simply for someone to look into. The reason for this eavesdropping was most likely the desire and insistence of a certain part of the state's authority to try to criminalise the president himself, his family, his associates, or to indicate certain procedures and speech of the president to certain incriminating actions. However, they did not hope to find anything, for if they had found any of it, it would have come out immediately the next day on all the tycoon media. So, from all of this, we can conclude that the ultimate goal of the criminal organization, which, thank God, is the clean, repeated, unsuspected part of the MUP, BIA, in collaboration with other held bodies, has been removed, but their goal is most likely to be the management of a state apparatus in which Aleksandar Vukic would be a practically passive observer, pressed by certain evidence that should be made by listening, and that if they fail to destabilise the country in such a way as to then execute certain weapons use, I suppose, at some mass gathering or, God forbid, the liquidation of sniper weapons. What we have now, Minister, is not to be interrupted. You are aware absolutely that you need to examine all the tentacles of that criminal octopus, and even if it touches the highest state officials and needs to see the background and the ultimate goal of it all. Why did certain representatives of the state cooperate with a criminal organization? Why was the surveillance and monitoring of the President of the Republic ordered? Why someone refused a polygraph study where the inaccuracy of the polygraph is all between 5% and 10%, of course, depending on the design of the polygraph itself. And, in the end, what's most important, who's behind it all? Is it a domestic tycoon lobby, are they foreign forces, or is it their own fruit? Until we finally find out, the fight can't stop. Therefore, it is also important that, in addition to this internal struggle, which is very good now, we also support any kind of agreement that will have exactly security aspects in its content and raise the level of security of our country. Long live Serbia and live Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3771	Mr. Secretary has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3772	Just to take this opportunity to repeat several important facts to the peoples of our most important body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to listening to President Alexander Vukic and his family. So, President Aleksandar Vukic, his brother Andrej, his father Angelko and his son Danilo, were being tapped illegally by individual members of the MUP, without any court order, without respect for the legal procedure and with the distortion and violation of the entire system made to protect Serbian citizens. President Vukic and his family were tapped based on what we proved. I can't rule out that it was more than that, but to what we've proven, 1,572 times. So 1,572 conversations were recorded without law, without court's decision, without any respect for legal procedure or system. It must worry each and every one of us, it must make us especially ready to fight this never to happen again. But what can make all of us proud together is that of those 1,572 recorded conversations, which were then listened to by the Ministry of Interior Control, by the prosecution, therefore, there is not one single incriminating conversation that could indicate in any way that any of the members of President Vukic's family and I have committed any crime. So 1,572 times something illegal was found and nothing was found. That should make us proud, just as it should make us worried that the 1,572 times have ever happened. The MIP's internal control sector, which conducted the investigation, made it doubtless that there was a violation of the law, that there were members of the MUP who misused their function. We have provided all relevant information to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, certain that we have proven a violation of the law and now expect, in accordance with the legal procedure, that the Prosecutor's Office determines, or qualifys, a criminal offence, to determine what happened in a legal sense, legal interpretation when it comes to illegal listening to President Vukic and his family. What I can tell each and every one of you and what I believe to have the support of each and every one of you, this must never happen to anyone again and never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3773	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Nevenka Kostadinova. First of all, according to the Rules of Procedure, Milenko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3774	Article 107. Just one thing, Mr. Minister, which you have mentioned, I would only like you to underline, as you have already said, because of the MPs and for the public. In all these 1572 talks, there was no listening to persons of security interest, and then entering the court's order in those talks, because this is the thesis that some people have been through for days, that the president of the Republic of Serbia spoke to security-interesting persons and thus fell into the line. No, without a court ruling, beyond any law, beyond any rule and on purpose, and very knowingly, it is illegally tapped both by him and his family. So I ask you once again, for the sake of the public and for the MPs, to give it a good underline, to know how it was done and what it was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3775	Minister Vulin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3776	Therefore, members of the Internal Affairs Sector have proved that the people who were put on the measures were expected to be in communication with President Vukic or members of his family. So, they're not being taken into account by people who have committed some crimes, so now, there's one of the members of the Alexander Vukic family talking to them. If that were the case, these people would be arrested today, because if you put a criminal on the line, you put him because he's a criminal, because you're doing some operating work on him, because you're looking for him and because you're trying, using certain measures, to prove his criminal activities. When you prove it, he gets arrested, surrenders to the D.A., the court, everything goes well. None of those faces were arrested. That means there was no evidence of their criminal behavior. This means that these people are being measured not because they were involved in crime, but because they were supposed to be persons who would be in communication with Alexander Vukic or members of his family. So, you put a measure on someone like that, you listen to him, there's a president or one of his family, he talks to these people, and on that basis you have a review of their communication. I repeat, none of these people are convicted, none of these people. People were putting themselves on the line because they had a closeness or assumed their closeness with one of the members of the family of President Vukic or himself. So, 1572 there was no violation of the law, not a single one. We're only talking about what we've been able to prove. I can't guarantee it wasn't any more than that, I don't know it, but less than that, it just, it just wasn't, I know it. It's a supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3777	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Nevenka Kostadinova.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3778	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, distinguished fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a draft law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals so that through the International Cereals Council as an international organisation that brings together 56 members to accelerate international co-operation in the trade in cereals and contribute to the stability of the market, as well as to the improvement of global food security. This promotes food market transparency and coordination of policy activities in response to market security. As regards the International Organisation of Cereals, we can set out four main objectives of this Convention: firstly, the improvement of international co-operation in the trade of cereals, especially cereals used in food; secondly, the promotion and expansion of grain trade by providing the free, i.e. the most free opportunities by removing barriers and discrimination in trade and in the interests of all Member States, especially for developing countries; the contribution of the stability of the food market to improve global food safety, especially for countries whose economies depend heavily on the sale of cereals and fourthly, the exchange of information and discussion on reasons for concern about the trade in cereals. Given that Serbia is a country of agriculture, a country of producer and exporter of food and cereals, this Convention is also very important for the production and trade of cereals, for strategic planning and strengthening competitiveness. If we look at the external trade of the agricultural and food industry in 2020 compared to 2019, the exchange increased by 5.6m euros or 10.7% higher than the previous year. The share of food exports in total goods exports is 21% and the surplus in the external trade exchange of agricultural and food products in 2020 is a 32.5% increase compared to the previous year. Given that we are a small agricultural country with great potential, it is clear for an even greater development of agriculture that this Convention is very important for the development and improvement of agriculture through the improvement of the cereals market, as well as through fair policy and strategic planning. On the other hand, food supply is one of the most sensitive segments of the world market and stability in the part is crucial. According to UN reports, nearly 690 million people are hungry, making up 9% of the world's population, and the most hungry are from developing countries in Africa and Asia. And while one part of the population starves on the other side on an annual scale in the world, over a billion tons of food or about a third of the food produced. Most of the food that gets thrown out is just for cereal. So they're taking part with 25% or a quarter of the food that's being dumped on grains. Throwing food is an additional pressure on poor natural resources. This shows how the world continues to waste its resources needlessly on food production and polluting both water and air. But let's get back to the situation in our country. The most recent example of food market disturbances is the beginning of the Kovid-19 pandemic when, fortunately, we were not concerned with food supply disorders, precisely because Serbia's food producer country and responsible government policy managed to stabilise the situation on the domestic food market for a very short time. I note that worldwide, as a result of the pandemic, the number of hungry has increased by about 130 million, especially in undeveloped countries and countries that are food importers. It is very important, if we want the village to be our strength in the future, to continue working on the development of the village, to strengthen and strengthen agricultural producers, both those large in the plain and small small agricultural land in rural, mountain-mounted areas, what is the situation in the south and east of Serbia, and also in my Bosilegrad. The lives of farmers on our premises are not easy at all, especially in mountainous areas. Because of the specificity of the terrain in my area, we have no potential for grain farming, but the areas are exceptional for livestock, especially for sheep and goats. I note that a century ago our ancestors lived only from livestock, that on foot they led their herds all the way to Thessaloniki, which is 300 kilometers away from us, that they sold their cattle and lived there. Back then, every house was a small farm. Now, in the 21st century, sheep and goat breeders on our premises can count, and they face countless problems, because they are small, petty, unorganized, without organised market access, exposed to the influence of illegal buyers, exposed to manipulations and different blackmails by the crowds. Col. Rističevic cited an example of Denmark that does not export cereal, but exports milk and meat. So, in order for us to achieve that trend and that trend, we also need to strengthen cattle breeders, especially in areas where the best conditions are for that, which are mountain-mounted areas. I can't help but point out one comparison. I was in Israel three years ago, in the desert part of the Dead Sea, and I could see countless flocks of sheep and goats. The guide then told us that in that part of cattle farming was highly developed, and that the spring was full of rain, so there are grasses. The naked eye could see some of the grasses in the sand that feed you. I took those gray, brown surfaces. When I came back to our house, and it was May the moon, the most beautiful moon of the year, I took pictures of our space, everything was green, pastures impenetrable, like colorful carpets, but I couldn't see any of the cattle' throats. My soul is sore that where there's almost nothing, everything works out, and with us nature has given us all the potential, it doesn't work out. If we want to strengthen livestock farming, we can only do so with the support of the state, with the full commitment of local self-government, through state subsidies, with the education of manufacturers, with the application of modern methods of working, innovation in agriculture, in order to make it even stronger and more competitive. This is because food along with water and energy will be even more important in the future. In the end, let me point out, in the voting day, I will vote for the law that we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3779	Thank you. The next is MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have another law confirming the security agreement. That only confirms Serbia's reputation in the international community. The reputation and trust that Serbia has gained over the years is actually beginning since 2012 or 2014 when the current Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic was first elected as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Certainly, it is a very good assessment of what Serbia is today, because believe in security, no one will cooperate with a country that has no legal protection, which is unreliable as a partner, who does not want or cannot protect the information it receives from its security partner. With such countries, agreements and Serbia are not being concluded, and I am glad to see it, for many years, back and forth, concluding more and more security agreements. There, too, we have today, as a debate, a very interesting topic that is not very security-related, but is related to the 1995 Convention on the Trade of Cereals. Today we give consent to the application of this Convention. So, for what, 25, 26 years, the Convention has been established. I understand that during Milosevic's regime, we were unable to conclude such an agreement. The country was constantly under some kind of sanctions, whether the UN, whether or not they wanted to put Yugoslavia and Serbia under some kind of sanctions and make it impossible for it to develop economically. I ask the question – why is this not concluded immediately after 5 October? Of course, after 5 October, Serbia continued to be a country that was overly agricultural-oriented. Well, it isn't, because our ornaments, our fertile fields can freely settle in order of natural wealth, which is no less valuable than forests or mines or rivers. The former regime has come into one, I can say, the original way to own that natural wealth and exploit it for almost a decade. If you want to destroy agriculture in one country, if you don't have a good plan, it's not that easy, but if you have a good plan and you know your job, which is destroying agriculture, you'll destroy the processing industry first. The top agricultural industry is the meat-processing industry. Let's get someone to name the number of slaughterhouses in Serbia that were in office on October 5th 2000? I say you can't count such serious slaughterhouses on the fingers of one hand. What do you have as a consequence when you destroy the meat-processing industry? The next one who gets hurt is farmers. They have no one to place their goods with, and after them, warlords have no one to sell their cereal. When you say cereal, among our citizens, the largest number thinks of wheat. It's not just that cereal. There are several species. One of Serbia's most represented is corn. Based on every farm production. I'm on my way, for example. From where I come from, from the Fireman. Bozidar Djelic, in a people known as "God's Derikoza", refused to sign consent on beating debts between the SRJ Ministry of Defence that owed the local industry and the PIO funds that the MIP owed. That's why that factory went bankrupt and no longer exists. In a physical sense, it doesn't exist anymore. What happened next? All the farms around the fireman. Then a local industry called Damjanovic appeared in Mladenovac. It was a little further away, but the farmer had someone to sell his pig, his cattle, so that while Micovic was director of the Republic Veterinary Administration, he only took his license from that slaughterhouse because he did not want his products to sell to his Majesty, Miskovic "Delta Company". From that moment on, there is no longer any serious slaughterhouse industry or serious farm production in the Braničen Management District in Serbia's second crop called "Stig". And for God's sake, what they did and our villages stayed with fewer residents of such a regime, now decorated in Dragan Gilas, fled abroad and by diaspora. When they were done, it was just the first step. The second step was that, except that they came up with quite valuable assets, how to completely dominate the natural wealth called the field and how our citizens of Serbia who are engaged in agricultural production, as small agricultural holdings set up to be their slaves. So they have no one else to sell their cattle to, no more warlords to sell their cereal to. Then they came up with another idea, which is under the alleged concern of farmers to introduce a subsidy system per hectare of arable land, where in the first place those who took advantage of the privatisation of the agricultural land, were entitled to grant or leased land of 30.40 euros per ha per year were entitled to a 150-euro grant at an annual level. Well, that was a little bit too. You know, metaphors work, if one product on the stock market, some kind of grain costs 100 dinars, buying 80 dinars, in production costs 60 dinars, it's quite, let's say, normal. If you're giving state aid, it doesn't cost 60 more in production, but 40 dinars, but you're not buying it out by 80 because it would really help a farmer, but you're buying it up to 60 now, and you're still selling 100 dinars on the stock market. That is how the wealth was made by Miskovic, Kostic and "The Victoria Group". So our peasants were their slaves. If you rebel, you will attack as you prevent agricultural products from being exported from Serbia, and we have exported grains, raw materials, we are not even a semi-product. That's how they destroyed our country. So they owed the country to take more and more money into their pockets, and then they wonder and say it's not true that in 2012, there were almost 27% of the unemployed. They've ruined everything, they've ruined every factory. Every slaughterhouse has been destroyed, our villages abandoned by them. Now, Mr. Minister, we also have an answer as to why this convention wasn't confirmed when they were in power, because under these conventions you have to have rules under which you play. It can't be an unusually low price. You can't just do what they're used to. There was no deal, there was nothing. Don't be surprised, neither what happened in 2014, 2015 and 2016, then SNS and Aleksandar Vukic started reforming agriculture, so the Law on Agricultural Land was changing, so a new Encouragement Act was passed. Among other things, about the incentives in agriculture, and remember how it was, what reactions were one part called farmers – they blocked our roads, blocked our cities. They complained that the ransom price was low, that they would not give up, those who owned land that was taken from the state, asked for more to be paid by the state for taking it from the state, exported their agricultural machinery to the streets and our highways. They wanted it to stay that way. Serbia's strategy in agriculture is to stop exporting raw materials, semi-produced is the best product. Just remember that they were telling us that one pig farm could pollute the whole region, here in this room, just two or three years ago, that they convinced us that we didn't need to have agriculture, how everything should be parched and abandoned, and until then, "Delta agrar" and everyone else would take this cheap land because there's no one to sell grains, or from a farm some pig or cattle, to kidnap natural wealth. That's why we had to call dissatisfied farmers. The strategy is now in the area of subsidies to help this farmer through machinery and other incentives that as much as possible production as possible cost less, to be more competitive on the market, to be more independent and, if possible, to make a product out of its raw materials. There are processes, but these processes don't match the tycoons brought together by Dragana Gilas, which is why we didn't even have this convention. That's why everything in Serbia fell apart during their regime. My people, I think when they kidnap something from the state or from the citizens that they're the happiest in the world. In some ways I feel sorry for them, because it's a far better feeling when you do something good for your citizens and for your country. They never had that feeling, because they never did anything good for their country or for their citizens, they just made them poorer as Gilas and the company became richer. I can even imagine that they have any more popularity among the citizens to try to trick us again, to tell us something about how we are ruining our agricultural producers here, how we are destroying our villages, and it is they who are the ones who are responsible for everything that has gone wrong in Serbia. Then it's no surprise that the whole heifer is both the president of Serbia and SNS President Alexander Vukic. There's a lot of money in the game, they've got a lot of money, they've had a lot of money, and they'd want to do it again, so if I can't do it in the election, so be it a sniper. It's important that they return to power, to take away again, to make us all poorer again, and those richer. I promise it won't happen in the future. This former regime will never rule Serbia again. Whenever I get a chance, at any public debate and here in the National Assembly, I'll tell the citizens of Serbia how far back they've ruined us, how many years they've taken from us, those years that we've all lived in poverty because of their wealth.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3781	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3782	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we live in a country that has been securely threatened for the past three decades. In December 2019, we adopted a National Security Strategy that for the first time clearly and unequivocally defines what our national interests are and that implies sovereignty, territorial integrity and preservation of internal stability and security. This strategy would indeed be a dead letter on paper if there were no economically empowered Serbia, as it is today, headed by President Aleksandr Vukic, that there is no strong army and strong police who represent a precondition for stability. Just as the strong army you led and the police you're leading today with the support of Alexander Vukic allows our choice to be -- not in NATO, it allows us to have friends both in the East and the West, that no "Storm" happens again, or "Blash", or "Glass", or NATO aggression, or the March Pogrom, but also the formation of all these criminal groups and clans that are in any way directly linked to the security forces. We as a country, a small country, but pointed out in the Balkans do not divide countries into large and small, not east, not west, and that is why the agreement with Palestine is significant. She's a friendly country because she's with us both for better or for worse. We thank her and respect her for respecting our territorial integrity and sovereignty. The agreement of the Republic of Serbia and Palestine improves co-operation in the fight against all forms of organised crime, and this really helps us to support information, to be more organised, more efficient in the fight against all types of crime. First of all, I would like to commend President Aleksandar Vukic and Minister Alexander Vulin's efforts to show that there are no protected works in Serbia. They say those who don't love Serbia just like that, that crime continues to rule here, that the bandits rule, that the clans are fully protected, but we see that this is not the case. We see arrests, we see the breaking of these criminal groups, we see the arrests of all those involved in crime, no matter what party book they own. The actions of the state and the MUP have been arrested by all those who thought they could kill, deal, harass, recruit and do it absolutely unpunished. And we see it every day. What I'm extremely proud of is that for us and the Socialist Movement, the most important thing is that today's policy is primarily directed towards people. It is turned to those who protect us and protect us daily, it is turned to improve their material position, to improve their professionalism. I must praise the fact that many apartments, how many housing issues have been solved in the territory of the entire Serbian state when we talk about security services. We need to talk about how helpful their more effective management and preventing them from leaving our country is. We need to talk about how much it's done when we talk about treating, hiring children in security services, investing in equipment and weapons, and all that during the crisis as it is today. None of this could have happened without the strong economy led by President Aleksandar Vukic. I would also like to commend that it has been announced that 500 apartments will be handed over in Novi Sad in King's Landing 200, which provides for 1,000 apartments in Zemun, which is scheduled for construction of another 2,500 apartments in the coming years. This sounds like some of the numbers I'm counting to you, but these are the families of the security forces taken care of. That's what you do equally in Belgrade and Kursumlia. In the country's security zone, you almost gave up your vehicles, you handed over your equipment, you handed over your helmets, your vests, your uniforms, your boots. You're investing in restoring their dignity. You take care of them who care about us, about the citizens of Serbia, you take care of them in one human way, and if you keep it that way, and I believe you will, the citizens will finally realize that they can really be sure that there are both the military and the police and the security forces that protect our country, who protect our children. You take care of people who care about people and thank you and President Vukic for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3783	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3784	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Vulin, Mr. Lazarov, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Interior on the courage and on the very effective police actions that have been carried out in the past few weeks against drug clans and drug cartels and all those who threaten the security of our country and our citizens. I will talk today about this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Palestine regarding security. The Republic of Serbia does not have that comfort as a country in a specific geopolitical situation and the position not to look for partners, not to seek friends every day and not to seek those who are willing to respect it, to respect it, to co-operate with our country in vital fields. So vital to the security of our citizens, our country, but of course the entire region. What is very important is to note that Serbia is working very well with almost all the countries of the Middle East, and that the international, political, security scene has changed greatly in just a few years and that global security is experiencing its changes almost daily. What is the essence of President Alexander Vucic's policy, which is very well balanced, especially on this international plan, says that Serbia can co-operate equally well with both Palestine and Israel, and with Saudi Arabia and Iran, and with all those countries that are important for security, of course and Europe, but here in our region, although they are very far away from our country. It is one of the additional quality of our country, because we can cooperate and we can be a bridge between those countries that have bad relations or even find themselves in certain conflicts between each other. We are witnesses that only in the past few months on the international agenda is what may not have been imagined in some previous period, just when President Aleksandar Vukic signed with then-President of the United States Donald Trump, the Washington Agreement, at that time I think that it was September 15th, Abraham's agreements were signed, which define relations and establish diplomatic relations between the state of Israel and certain Arab countries, such as Bahrain, Morocco, United Arab Emirates, Sudan, with a hint that this will happen when it comes to Israel, both with Saudi Arabia and some other countries. This speaks of how many decades of enemies of the state that were in fierce conflicts until yesterday, how much it is necessary for them to cooperate, how much it is necessary and how sound and wise the policy of President Vukic, that the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the security of our citizens never put, therefore, after the interest, and the short-term interests that we may have, with certain countries. The result of this policy is that the Republic of Serbia is respected by all countries around the world, that Serbia today is one country that defines regional stability, which is recognised by many world powers and states as a country worth investing in, which is also the economic and political leader of this region. For us, Palestine, of course, is very important because of its position and the relations of Arab states towards it, towards its people. It is important to us because of the organisation of Islamic co-operation, it is important to us that as many as 42 states are tied up and very much committed to the Palestinian issue. Of course, Serbia will take advantage of all its capacities and influences both in our place and in our interest, that the Palestinian people and Palestine find a common language, find a compromise and find some compromise solution with Israel, which could possibly be transferred and which could be a good example for the settlement of the KIM issue, as something that may be a fruit of compromise, as something that could end almost decades of time, in this case, conflict and conflict, which ultimately must end with some peace agreement, which must end with co-operation, because these are nations and states, these are people who live hundreds of years apart. Serbia has found this model thanks to President Vucic that he is working well with the state of Israel, that he has excellent economic, political and military co-operation, but also that we are working with Palestine, which, however difficult the economic situation, the difficult political situation, is securely important for the region of the Middle East, but also for our region here and for everything our security services are doing protecting our country, protecting our citizens and protecting our sovereignty and territorial integrity. Many President Vukic resent the fact that it strengthens the security of the state, which strengthens the capacity of our members of the Ministry of Interior, the military, our intelligence services. It is obvious that they are doing this because Serbia today is, economically in a major rush, dynamically developing, is a bone in the throat of many here in the region, many in Europe and many in the world. Many people are not comfortable because Serbia is developing. It is not pleasant for many that Serbia has enough economic and economic capacity to be able to strengthen its army, that it can arm itself and thus, thinking about how Vukic is doing, for a decade in advance, a strategic way can protect his potential and his own interests, his people and take care of him in the best possible way. I will remind you of my fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they asked him why Britain was arming and commenting that it was not as well as they were commenting and suggesting on what Vucic is doing in Serbia, he replied – it is as if you blame the umbrella because it is raining. It is, and we are acting in harmony with this doctrine, the doctrine of deterrence, the doctrine of strengthening and empowering our country, and we are ready to co-operate with everyone when it comes to common interest, to find it, to fight global terrorism together, to fight cyber terrorism and cyber threats. We have always been through our history, but even today, part of the coalition, part of those states of the free nations who have a sincere desire and will to deal with such monsters as world terrorism and as potentially endangering the lives of citizens wherever they live, of course their rights. It is therefore very important to implement this cooperation with Palestine on the ground. It is very important to co-operate with them, not only on the security plan, but also on the economic plan, given that it is a country and a people who traditionally have good ties with the Serbian people, who, as my colleagues had previously said, are important, support and respect Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and we will never forget that. By continuing, led by President Vukic, to lead this policy of good relations with everyone and to find a common denominator between those countries that are possible and who are among themselves in conflict, but where Serbia can find a model and opportunity to co-operate with all of them. Co-operation with Israel, with the state of Israel, does not exclude co-operation with Palestine. Co-operation with Israel does not exclude co-operation with Iran. President Vukic has proved that it is possible to do so and that it is possible to do so for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the benefit of this country, so our economy. Finally, we have a leader who, as a priority of all priorities, has defined what is the interest of the Serbian people, what is the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by leading only these Serbian interests, and, of course, respecting all others, all those who are willing to respect and respect Serbia. That is why Serbia today has very much support in the world. Today, Serbia is supported by many great and powerful forces and finally after decades Serbia has friends who have shown themselves to Serbia when it has been most difficult. And during this crisis, and during the challenges that we have in the UN Security Council, when it comes to our southern province of KIM, where we want to get as much support as possible from countries as possible, not only here in the region, but throughout the world. Every country is important to us, and this Palestine is important to us, as is important to Suriname, such as India, as is important to the People's Republic of China. We are ready to talk to all those who do not think like us, and with many Western countries and show them, to give them a clear argument as to why Kosovo and Metohija are part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, why the Republic of Serbia has legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija. You, Minister Vulin, may have written one of the best texts to treat the issue. This text bears the title – Why I am for demarcation. We can agree, we can disagree with him, but he is carrying one message that defines what is only possible, which is a compromise, and that is the co-operation and possibility of using this position of Serbia today to take advantage of it so that we can solve our "par excelance" political problem in the long term, and this region, to continue to work with everyone in the future and, of course, respecting the ones I choose and the state of Palestine, those who respect our country, who respect our interests. I am sure that, despite all these challenges that we have today, especially in the past few weeks, given that it is almost proven, we all understand this, we should not be security experts or any other, that the assassination has been prepared, that its elimination has been prepared, just as the personification of Serbia's development, economic development, security development. They're the ones who criticise when Serbia buys planes, when it buys equipment for its soldiers, for its officers. Of course we will continue with the uncompromising support of President Vukic's policy to raise Serbia, to modernise Serbia and to strengthen our country as much as possible in an economic and security sense. To end with sometimes we don't need outside enemies, which are definitely there, who don't want Serbia well, who don't want Serbia to move forward. We have besides those drug cartels that tried and did what they were doing, and we all had the chance to unfortunately see that it was very monstrous. We also had a chance today to see that politicians from the Sanjay region, or the Raska region, such as Sulejman Ugljanin, worship so-called. The victims of the conflict in Kosovo and Metohija bow to those who, out of most of the world's public, are declared a terrorist organisation and I think that it is high time, because of this Serbia, for the sake of our citizens, for the sake of this modernisation, for everything that President Vukic is doing, fighting, bringing investors, hiring people in Serbia, together with his government colleagues, together with us who represent most of us, especially with the people of the SNS, that those who are in charge of breaking the Constitution, eclatively, for working against their own country, for what can be called the worst subversive activities against the Constitution, constitutional order, the security of citizens, that finally those people who are in those state bodies, particularly in the judiciary, are doing their jobs. Because we cannot allow people who do public work to threaten the Republic of Serbia in this way. Vukic will bring factories, Vukic will take care of jobs for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of whether they are Serbs, Bosniaks, Slovaks, Russian or anyone else, and they will go, worship and say it is an epekia so-called. Kosovo Liberation Army. I don't think they can, and I think you should take advantage of your authority, as one of the ministers leading one of the most important resolutions in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that simply those doing this and doing so against the state are adequately and processed and punished for all that they do against our country. We will continue as the Serbian Progressive Party to continue uncompromisingly to support President Vukic at every opportunity, openly, without any fear, as much as we could see and our younger colleagues have spoken today, we see that we do not lack the courage here, so that we will fight the drug clans, we will fight the criminals, we will fight with all those and on the domestic political scene, but also on the foreign political plan, which does not want Serbia well, but we will fight the results, jobs and, of course, stronger military and that, of course, by buying planes, buying equipment, buying weapons, because it guarantees our children and our grandchildren a safe and good future thanks to President Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3785	Thank you. Next on the list is Mr. Janko Langura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3786	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, as we all know very well, agriculture is the development and historical chance of the Republic of Serbia, as has been shown in this difficult time when not only our country but the whole world has been affected by the biggest economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus. It is agriculture and production and that man who gets up in the country every morning and works for his family and his country that has made it possible for Serbia to take the first position in economic growth without talking about how far we were in front of others. Because, you know, Serbia has at no time lost its food reserves, as has been happening to much larger countries. And how good we are neighbours and good friends, we have even been offering help to countries in our environment, which is an eclectic example of how serious Serbia is. How far Serbia is serious the country is clearly showing the recent arrest of an organised crime group around Belivuk, which our President Aleksandar Vukic announced several months ago and carried out. Despite all those who said it was impossible, that it would never happen, our President Alexander Vukic fulfilled his promise to the citizens again. We are now all witnesses of a shocking event happening daily in front of the eyes of the citizens. Namely, a certain professor, if such a man can be called a professor, who is known in public for several corruption affairs, who is known as a man who is prone to paedophilia and as a man who is known as one of the main drug users who was personally served by Veljko Belivuk, he is now used to the people that the attack is the best defense, so every day from Gilas's tycoon media suggests the most disgusting threats and insults to President Aleksandr Vukic for his fight against organised crime in which Vuletic himself is apparently involved. That all these facts are not a lie, I can also show you in some photographs that Mr Vuletic himself no longer hides. Here we could see in this photograph, please, just show the citizens of Serbia that the citizens can see, we could see that when a gentleman who is in communication with Vuletic tells him that he is a paedophile, he is being rewarded by it, ladies and gentlemen, believe it or not, by saying that children are up to 12 years old. So it was normal for him to offer her children over 12 years of age, whether she was 13 or 14, drugs and, believe it or not, what's very bad, to offer them sexual services, and to give them his, how he's jargonically expressing himself – lobbyes, which are very quality and which only he can get. Also, at one of those parties, he didn't even hide it, he even photographed himself, and the pictures were publicly published, here, you can see, it's one of the photographs, one of the exhibitions of Professor Vuletic. Also, here, you see, when he's halfway out in the snow, which no man can think of, but he only did this under the influence of heavy opiates. Also, as I said, all of these facts did not prevent him from following the arrest of the criminal group with whom he was in great and close friendship, as much as he is now and with Mrs. Bećkovic on Gilas' tycoon television and with Mrs. Shoes on "NewsMax Adria" or as these tycoon televisions are called, he is now justified so that he has no connection, has no closeness and no friendship with them. This intercepted call, you ministers probably know a lot better than I do, when Belivuk calls Professor Vuletic on the phone and tells him, "Professor, Velja is," Professor Vuletic answers, "Where are my brother?" I don't know if anyone you first met or who first called you on the phone is calling him, my brother. But that's not all. Vuletic answers his question, where he is, tells him that he is headed for Zlatibor, that he has a conference to meet with Minister Ruzic, which they both agree on, he is ours. Whatever the word is, it is ours, and I will not enter it. Then Vuletić informs him that the work they agreed on today is done, to which Veljko Belivuk wishes to repay and tells him to call him when he returns to pay him back to bring him something, to which Vuletić is justly justified – please do not. You know how much I love you. I love you, too, but in order to break my tick, I've got to get you something. The citizens of Serbia and how they knew what they were bringing. It is certainly not a sports prop, nor a cheerleader, except for money for the services performed. That transcript of conversation looks like this and it's very accessible to everyone. And again, if you're not close to someone, you probably don't tell them how much you love them, how much you like them, how much you love your brother and how much you have left. Also, we had the opportunity to hear various lies in one of the guests of the new tycoon star on Gilas TV, Professor Vuletic, as if he only swears "Partizana" and Serbia, so I wonder if the professor Vuletic is aware, because he is no longer small, that love is not bought by money, and that you cannot love only one from whom you have direct benefit. So I'm also interested, is it possible that the club in which the vice president, the Football Club "Partizan" at one point has a 14m-euro debt, and then makes revenue worth more than 25m euros, and suddenly, the debt grows to 40m euros, so now I'm interested in how it is possible and what mathematics is it? Did one part of that money happen to end up in those billions of euros, how much are they praised for "N1" that Dragan Djilas and Dragan Solak invested in them, because it is evident that Mr Vuletic has financed the two televisions directly for years, as soon as he gets this much advertising space and space in their shows to try to justify his closest co-operation with Veljko Belivuk? Also, as we all know very well, at the Football Club stadium "Partizan" whose vice president until recently was Vuletic was found no less, no more than a sniper. A sniper was found in one of the club rooms. We are all aware of what the sniper is for and for whom he was intended. I guess they didn't want to kill me. The sniper was exclusively designed to kill the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, and once and for all to put an end to Serbia's better future. I also wonder if the tycoon puppet, Olja Bećkovic, where Mr Vuletic goes on the show every week to justify all that he has done so far will have the courage to ask these questions to Mr Vuletic or will be the same case as Dragan Dilas, that Mr Vuletic will ask her a question. We now see this same Mr Vuletic announcing some lawsuits against President Aleksandar Vukic and against Mr Vulin. It's his right to sue. I wonder if the public prosecutor will call on Mr Vuletic to explain these connections and connections to such hard-working criminals and such monsters? And now this same man who, apparently, is one of the accomplices of that Belivuk's organized criminal gang and who has allowed these monsters to do all this, because he was solely being a front for these criminal activities, I would really like to ask him not to swear allegiance, not to "Partizan" or Serbia anymore. Partizan brought on a beggar stick and the lowest branches in his history. He wanted the same thing with Serbia, but he didn't make it and he'll never make it. Serbia continues to be run by the capable, led by brave people. Alexander Vukic leads her in the best direction and takes her every day to new historical victories, followed by the vast majority of the people. I would like to repeat once again that this parliament will always support Alexander Vukic in the fight against crime and the mafia, he will always stand by the vast majority of the people. This parliament will never be the partner of the tycoon and mafia Serbia that Dragan Gilas imagines and that tycoon, thiefic, yellow cartel. Long live decent Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3787	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3788	Thank you. It's a very sensitive subject, I'm an 107th advertiser. I'm asking you to just be as careful and correct as possible, especially in the presence of the police minister, who I'm sure is doing his job just right. All we've seen so far has shown that the police know how and what to do. In that sense, I support all discussions, and I support the right of each of us to perhaps be hypersensive at certain times reacting, but, what should I call it, without sounding rude because it's not my intention, not that, possibly, we're making some premature conclusions from a transcript of some of the conversations that we've all heard. So, if, first of all, as MPs, since we have no right to do so, we would have had any effect in any way or at least it would have made the public do so, it would be good to be careful in our discussions, however frightening all this is happening in the country right now. Once again, the chairman, kindly please let us pay a little attention when it comes to discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3789	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3790	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3791	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3792	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Vulin, I am pleased, indeed, to see you here very often, in this high House, that speaks of you as a minister and your privilege, as well as your commitment to the work of your ministry that you are leading. Since my predecessors have said a lot about both of these laws, let me say that both the laws on confirming the Agreement and the Convention are extremely important to our country. Why? It is precisely because these laws speak of the policy of security, and the independence of our road when it comes to the security, or military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. This is our path, a Serbian path trained by our President Alexander Vukic, because, ladies and gentlemen, someone else's path is not coming home. Secondly, what we will be able to influence decision-making at the international level. When it comes to this Convention on the Trade of Cereals, I must say that, because it is very important, we will be able to say very well to influence through the International Cereals Council, as an international organisation, in terms of speeding up international co-operation in the trade in cereals, and not only that, but also to contribute to the stability of the market and to improving global food security, which is extremely important for our country in general. I won't talk about it anymore, since my predecessors said a lot about it, and let me point out, however, that agriculture is extremely important for the overall development and security of our country, and our political opponents in agriculture did not, the previous regime of Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic and their associates, Vuk Jeremic, have not taken care of it, because they have totally led to the collapse of agriculture. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that their agriculture minister, Sasa Dragin, was arrested and charged with 4.5m euros. So they really didn't lead, about that much. As for this second agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the State of Palestine in the area of security, we have put security first in all our documents, and as far as this agreement is concerned, it will take place in several directions, first in the area of strengthening co-operation in the field of fighting organised crime, which we pay particular attention and attention to, especially these days, it is current. Secondly, on co-operation in the area of high-tech crime and terrorism, further in the area of drug trafficking and human trafficking and finally co-operation in the fight against counterfeiting. These are extremely important areas, and this security will contribute to our country's overall security. When it comes to security, I must say, Mr. Minister, that these days, no one but the former Chief of Staff, Zdravko Ponos, Borko Stefanovic, Tadic, you have seen, and their associates. For the sake of Serbian citizens, just to remind them who Zdravko Ponos is. Well, respected citizens, if you remember, he and Tadic together led a joint criminal enterprise aimed at destroying and bringing about a level that does not guarantee freedom, which is at the level of hunting society. So far, Ponos has also brought his Tadic, Borko Stefanovic and Dragan Djilas. After October 5th, Ponos and Tadic destroyed Serbia's Army, more than NATO's pact during the 1999 bombing. This Zdravko Ponos, as Chief of Staff of the Army, gave him up, behold, miracles and his commander-in-chief Boris Tadic, as you remember and he replaced him. I'm not even talking about Tadic, so he's like the president of the state, and as defence minister, I quote, what do we need an army for? So much for him. Every member of Serbia's army today must be red out of shame when the Serbian Army's assessment of Serbia is given by Zdravko Ponos. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that Ponos, as a general, stood calmly in front of NATO lieutenants while brave Serb soldiers extradited to The Hague. Is that right, gentlemen, Zdravko Ponos, Mr Gilasu, and for Europe, Gilasha and Borko Stefanovic? It's a general who promised the US senator that Serbia's military would cut from 62,000 to 27,000. Well, that's not promised by Mr. Vulin, nor by Alexander Vucic. Anyone who was a patriot in the Serbian Army was expelled during Zdravko Ponos. Isn't that right, ladies and gentlemen, especially you members of the Serbian Army? Today, unlike his time, the Army of Serbia has been modernised, which was modernised by Aleksandar Vukic, and its successors, like all ministers, are at an enviable level, indeed at an envious level, and has routed our country's neutrality, which is a Serbian path, because as I said, someone else's path is not coming home, ladies and gentlemen. It's extremely important to say in the end that man creates everything he creates, creates by work, and man is created to fight and to do. Whoever doesn't, must fail, our Nikola Tesla said. We officials, MPs, and political leaders of individual parties must be honorable people, and not have to be rich people, because rich people don't develop democracy. Dragan Gilas thinks that only wealthy people develop democracy, especially if they acquired their wealth during their political function, such as tycoon Dragan Gilas, with 619m euros robbed. I quote Aristotle - democracy is when honorable people, not wealthy, rule. It's a finished quote. Our President Alexander Vukic is not wealthy, but he is an honorable man. That's why he should rule and fight corruption, crime, like you, Mr. Minister. Now, my Gilashu, you must know that wealth is not measured by material values, but by the honor that someone has acquired. So much for that. Let me, after all, provoke our political opponents a little bit and ask them if what I'm about to say or not is true, especially Dragan Gilas. I ask him - who first marked NATO aggression on our country? Here, now I'm asking him in front of the Serbian public. Well, of course, Alexander Wolf. During their government, NATO was not allowed to say aggression, but NATO intervention. Second, who said first - I don't want to go to NATO? Of course Alexander's a wolf. Isn't that right, Dragan Gilasu, and for Europe, Gilas? Who told the first West - won't stop me from working with China? And you, Mr. Gilas and your associates Borko Stefanovic and Jeremic, called us in this high house, accused us of working with yellow people and Russian governorship. Right, Mr. Gilashu? Who said first - I won't impose sanctions on Russia? Who is the first of our presidents and rulers? Who first raised Serbia's army to an envious level? Answer me, Mr. Gillash. Who first returned the 166th Gospel of Miroslav to his place after 175 years? Who today is the only and last free ruler in Europe, as you, Mr. Minister, said in this high house the day before yesterday? Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who first erected a monument to the father of the Serbian medieval state after 800 years? Who's first, Dragan Gilashu? Answer this to the citizens of Serbia. Of course Alexander's a wolf. Who first implemented comprehensive reforms in Serbia after 30 years? Who's first, Dragan Gilashu? And you robbed 619 million during your political post? Who in the last 30 years has built the most hospitals, health homes and clinical centres? Answer Dragan Gilashu. How much did you build? Who built the most highways, roads and bridges from the president in recent Serbian history? Answer Dragan Gilashu. Who is the most worthy of the Serbian rulers to build the temple of the Holy Sava on Vracar, the most beautiful Orthodox church in the world? Who's first, Dragan Gilashu? Alexander Wolfie. Who first built the Balkan pipeline from Zaječar to Horgos in the length of 403 km? Dragan Gilashu, answer this. Here in this high house in the last term you called us that it would never come to life. Who first established a steel friendship with the Republic of China? You called us to work with yellow people. Who was the first to realize "Belgrade on Water" and today you are leading the hunt against "Belgrade on Water"? And not only against "Berograda on Water", but against "Smedereva" in Smederevo, against Bor, against everything that is done in this country. Who's the first in 17 years, let's just take the last 17, to fight organized crime and corruption, Dragan Gilashu? In the end, ladies and gentlemen, to all these lies that Dragan Gilas and his media have been pushing for 24 hours these days, we will answer here in this high house, because he will not be in this high house, he has withdrawn the MPs, because he has said, "What will Parliament do for me, who needs it." He needs a street because he went first on October 5th to tear down this congregation. There are pictures of it, and there are statements from the CIA chief for Serbia of the time, how they funded the collapse of order and who participated and later thanked him. I quoted in this high house last time. In the end, we will continue to work on Serbia in 2025, which was headed by our President Aleksandar Vucic, not only modernising, not only us MPs, but most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the largest number of political parties, and Dragan Gilas will surely fail as Nikola Tesla said because he did not gain 619 million in his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3793	Thank you. The next MP is Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3794	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, the whole world faces a crisis that has not been seen so far and in such circumstances it can be said that Serbia is fighting a major battle in all fields and is achieving extraordinary results in this fight. Of course, first of all, I mean the fight to preserve our economy and the fight to preserve jobs. The priority is to preserve our economy, as well as the hard-earned results of fiscal reforms since 2014. Thanks to the policy implemented by SNS and President Aleksandar Vucic, we were in a position at the time of this crisis to help everyone in need, and this shows one thing with certainty, which is that we have managed to implement these brave but necessary reforms and that thanks to these reforms we have done something since 2014, that we have done something and that we have earned something to help, as I have already said, for all those who need this help. We managed to help our businessmen, our farmers, our health workers, and our pensioners. Why do I mention our farmers? Because today we have on the agenda a draft law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals, which aims, among other things, to promote transparency on the food market and coordination and policy activities on any possible uncertainty on the market. The International Cereals Council is an intergovernmental organisation aimed at speeding up international co-operation in grain trade, as well as contributing to the stability of the cereals market and improving global food security. I believe that this bill, which we have on the agenda today, is good and beneficial for all citizens of Serbia, because it shows that we want to invest in our agriculture, to think about our farmers, to think about our agricultural producers, because agriculture has a significant share in Serbia's employment and GDP. Serbia is also a traditional agricultural country and with the knowledge and support that our farmers receive, we have shown that we are ready for times of crisis. We were, therefore, one of the few countries in Europe, and I would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity to praise the work of the Ministry of Agriculture which had no problem supplying basic life supplies to all citizens of Serbia and food production. It should be pointed out that during the previous term of the previous government, as a state, we have allocated significant resources in the area of agriculture and that we will certainly do so in the next period to implement everything we have promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order to realise all those things in the area of agriculture that we have defined through the 2025 investment plan, and here we mean investments in new irrigation systems, which will mean our farmers, in the electrification of the field, automatic anti-urban protection and through the granting of subsidies from the state to our farmers to buy additional machinery and equipment that will mean further work for them. It's a good thing we started to stimulate the improvement of the production process in the coming period. I hope that we will further stimulate the opening and modernisation of processing facilities to improve our export policy and in order to be recognized as a country in the coming period, not only as those exporting raw materials, but as a country capable of exporting quality final products. Agriculture is therefore one of the biggest development opportunities for Serbia. The village fed Serbia at times when Serbia was most difficult and any additional incentive to agriculture opens up the possibility of some families returning to the country and dealing with food production. All of these results were achieved by the SNS for a short time in the area of agriculture, because we were indeed leading a serious and responsible policy, and unlike those who managed this country from 2000 to 2012, who literally took money from the agrarian budget, who printed some magazines about cooperatives that no one had ever seen in order to benefit themselves alone. These results achieved by the SNS in the area of agriculture in the previous period have been achieved through enormous work and commitment and no factory affair of the false elite and members of the former regime will diminish the results, because precisely because of the efforts and work of the entire SNS team we get the trust of the citizens and I am sure that will be the case in the next elections. We will continue to fight for Serbia regardless of any attacks directed towards us from the tycoon media. Of course, in the voting day, I will support the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals and I call on other Members of Parliament to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3795	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3796	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-worker, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, appeared under the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Trade of Cereals submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 19 February 2021, and the government also established the basis for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the International Cereals Council at its session on 21 January 2020. The International Cereals Council is an intergovernmental organisation aimed at improving international co-operation in grain trade, contributing to the stability of the cereals market, and improving the global food security system. The implementation of those objectives improves market transparency through information exchange, analysis and consultation on the market and development policies. The Council of Cereals has 56 Member States. Market conditions for cereals, rice and olives are observed on a daily basis, and through the delivery of daily reports, the Council formally exchanges information on market conditions at board meetings and meetings of the Council. Market information on cereals, rice and olives is available on a public website, a specific index of cereals and olives is available daily via a public website, along with a balance of offers and demand and forecasts for a wide range of countries and goods. In October 2012, the International Cereals Council joined the Secretariat of the Information System of the Agricultural Market. The initiative is based on the request of the G20 agriculture ministers, covering four crops: wheat, corn, rice and soybean, and aims to promote food market transparency and policy coordination in response to market uncertainty. The International Council also holds two regular meetings of the London Council and its functions each year: monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Trade of Cereals, which we are considering today; then discussing current and perspective developments in the cereals market and monitoring changes in national cereals policy and their market implications. The International Cereals Council is the second in the world after the US Ministry of Agriculture to collect, analyse and report on the grain and olives market, and it is the importance of this organisation. Data and projections are important for the creation of a state-level policy in the cereals and olives sectors. The membership would be significant in terms of promoting the results of trade and access to a significant number of data for the analysis and determination of policies in the periods ahead. Confirmation of this Convention shall allow its entry into force, as provided for in Article 25. Convention. For the implementation of this Convention, these funds were provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, also in 2022, 2023 and the following years will be planned within the limits of division – the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, which will be defined by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the balance sheet options. Seventy percent of our country's total area is agricultural land, of which 17.3% of the total population are our farmers, i.e. our hosts. Also, I would refer to the municipality from which I come, which is the municipality of Negotin and I can stress that we have as a municipality extraordinary co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. The municipality of Negotin is the fifth municipality in Serbia on its surface, covering 1,089 square kilometers. I'd like to point out that we're doing a piece of work, i.e. Within eight catastrian areas of the Municipality of Negotin, we are totaling about 5,000 hectares. Also, in co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management in the Municipality of Negotin, it is also done to irrigate the Negatin String. In the first phase, 2,000 hectares, and in total we will be covered by more than 13,000 hectares and the project is worth more than 10m euros. The municipality of Negotin has defined in the budget for 2021 subsidies in agriculture of 20.5 million dinars, together with a total of 36 million dinars. Here's some more information on Negotin Municipality for 2020. The wheat is at 10,000 hectares and the yield, approximately, for wheat is four tonnes per hectare; corn is 6,500 hectares, seven tonnes per hectare; total seeded areas are about 20,000 hectares. Here just to point out that the areas in the individual sector did not enter into the calculation areas that are leased, the state land – there are about 3,000 hectares, as well as about 5,000 hectares that are under multi-year grasses and leguminosis, sown in the previous period. It is important to say that the offerings are shown in conditions of dry warfare without irrigation. Finally, I can say that I will vote in favour of this bill, as well as all others who are on the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Of course, I invite my colleagues from PG Aleksandar Vukic – for our children to do the same. Thank you. Long live Negotin! Long live decent Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3797	Thank you. The word has Sandra Christmas's folk emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3798	I thank the President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, fellow People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the end of today's debate and some conclusions simply imposed themselves when we talk about these agreements, certainly for one and the other the most important thing is that the state is stable and that there is room for such agreements, namely that we with a strong, strong economy, with a stable country can talk and be reliable partners both in the environment and in all countries of the world, and we have shown clearly enough that we have friends on all the meridians and on all sides of the world, which is very important in today's development of the Republic of Serbia, especially economically, and then, of course, when we talk about security, military co-operation. We had a chance today to hear a very high-quality debate and on this matter and what remains and is imposed as one conclusion, and it concerns this very second agreement that is related to the security issue, is that it is equally important that you deal with security issues on both internal and external terms. One with the other simply, one without the other does not go and it is due, and it is quite certain that the coup that the state started with the mafia and with crime is definitely deciding to further develop our good neighbourly relations, because I will remind you that the group that was arrested, the Belivuk group, organized mob formation has actually operated, I suppose the minister will agree with my findings, at the level of our region. So they were not limited to the territory of the Republic of Serbia and certainly the challenges, risks and threats of security are never so and are always absolutely connected to the region, and therefore, including that, after all the allegations and all the evidence that were drawn after the arrest of the president of Serbia, it is clear that the foreign factor is certainly part of this very complex puzzle. What we had the chance to hear in the previous days is that the public had really left without text and without words and it was necessary to do so for many reasons. The Council itself, led by the president of the state, who, on Saturday night, provided certain data and certain videos, were really necessary first of all in order to convince the public of everything that had been effectively stated in the previous period, which is that this was not about cheerleading groups, that it was about monsters, murderers, slaughterers, criminals of the worst kind, and Serbia really had to see and see only part of it. I can only assume by everything that's really written in the media that it's just one part of one huge spectrum of atrocities that the members of this group have done, that we've actually seen the part that could only be shown to the public, and it was really creepy. The second thing that was said at that meeting, very important for the security of our country, was that part of the opposition in the "tampering" affair was data that practically came from the interior of the MUP. That's what it's like for me at this point really something I'd like to talk about here today. I don't think the media has somehow looked back on that part of the practical coup story, because what happened with 1,572 recorded talks is a coup attempt and is an attempt to stop Serbia's President, Aleksandr Vukic. Such a development that has provided Serbia with its leader and rating, which is truly simply amazing, but always bigger and today is located at over 60% of the support. I'll remind you, and at a time when it's very difficult to hold a rating, when you don't even get into ratings because you solve some current problems, solve existence, solve and try to save every life in Serbia, fight the crown crisis. So, really no one cares about the ratings today, no one is fighting for their rating today, and no one is in the election campaign, but indeed in the previous period, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and the government have been trying practically to survive Serbia, no matter what is in a very difficult situation, as well as the rest of the world has achieved some results, and in the battle with the coronary virus, but also in our economy, which, even though it doesn't seem to us right now, but by everything we can read these days, it is about the finances of the world of some major countries, those which are mainly factors and global crises, I think that this wave of global crisis is just ahead of us and we're actually not really really aware of how much this economic crisis has hit the world, which is at the depth and what power. Serbia is the one who will, however, record new victories clearly in the coming years in this crisis, as well as in the coming years. You have seen some of the biggest investments just during this crisis enter Serbia, and the last "Continental" investment is enough to say that Serbia is a stable market, that Serbia is a stable country and a great trust exists in Serbia's leadership, in the government of the Republic of Serbia that has provided its properly run policies with such a climate and an opportunity for large companies to invest. I will remind you that we have been respected all the time that Serbia is just a place for waste industries and a waste economy, i.e. for some large systems which, unfortunately, I am looking forward to because we have been able to deny them, because precisely with the "Continental", every story must be silent. "Continental" is one of the most developed car industry factories. In addition, we must not forget the CTF, nor the "Bross" in Panchev, which are now in some advanced phase of building their production. To go back to what I said was very interesting to me, but of course when you start talking about Serbia's economy that all the results are taking you and that certainly every single one of us here in this room can talk for a very long time about the successes of the Republic of Serbia, the measurable results and everything that we actually live today, and what someone, like my colleagues today, seems to me to have been Anna, still had the courage to dream. So, what is the role of the former government, the former regime in destroying Serbian President Alexander Vukic? I can't help but make an analogy of everything that happened in the previous period. Systematic criminalizations by the president of the state, the systematic criminalisation of his family, the son of Daniel, brother Andrew, and all of what we had the opportunity to see in the construction of affairs of those who consider themselves to be some kind of heirs, to say, I don't like that word, the ruling regime. We saw it last for a year and a half. For a year and a half, you had a systematic, deliberate collapse of Telecom, Krusika, so our dedicated industry. All that stuff somewhere, and there was this conclusion missing. Whose account do these people do it for? Indeed, everything they said, every quote by Marinika Tepic, Dragan Dilas, Miroslav Aleksic, Borko Stefanovic, had no real basis in a single word, let alone the facts. You saw that absolutely everything was denied. We do not have to repeat that the "Jovanjica" has even made a strong verdict, at the expense of Aleksic, who must pay for hurting someone's reputation, in this case Serbian President Andrija Vukic's brother. So, what's the analogy and what's the conclusion? This is what we are forced by all of what we have had the opportunity to see in the previous period that members of the former regime have been trying in Serbia, so to weaken all the forces Serbia has on its side when it comes to the economy. When you come to know that part of the ruling part of the SNS, or those who create policies and participate in government. Still, there's a hearing with Veliko Belivuk, and there's also a hearing with certain members of the former regime. You don't have to wonder how this group was actually organized, who organized them, and what was the goal? I'm pretty sure, and some say that in a few days that are behind us, one of them is last night. My colleague Marko Langura was able to pass it on to you, and I'm sure you've had the opportunity and through the means of public information, and to hear what it looks like to talk between Veljko Belivuk and former "Partizan" vice president who claimed to have heard only once with Belivuk, and then to hear only because of the football folklore, or the organisation of fans, as if there was no technical staff and staff in that sense that he could organize with fans certain performances, etc. To finally come to the conclusion, which you can certainly draw yourself from this conversation, that it is a statement of one love, friendly, friendly, and that there are certain interests that Veljko Belivuk had to do, he says, for the sake of malice to respect the former Vice President "Partizana". So, all of this, not to say that this moral vertical from the former vice president of the club "Partizan" is someone who in the previous period, especially how the whole affair over the arrest of this criminal group began, someone who did not come down from the media between Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak. I don't need much in that form to come to the conclusion that when we talk about the former government and when we talk about their connection to drug criminal groups, I can't help but remember the photo album that Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic have with criminals, who have with members and the Zemun clan, I can't underline the analogy in the functioning of this clan and the Zemun clan and not pull any parallel. And also the facts say that what I'm trying to conclude here today is that Gilas and his paltos Solak want and continue to destroy Serbia, but today they're doing it through Washington. How? The United Group and its two companies submitted an arbitration request to the International Centre for the Resolution of Investment Disputes in Washington, which claims that the state of Serbia has violated several obligations under the bilateral Investment Agreement with the Netherlands, the United Group said today, which has also claimed that since 2014, many unfounded discriminatory measures have been implemented by Serbian authorities and state institutions. Of course, when it comes to their interest, here you know directly what it is, it is absolutely clear to everyone that it is their media, that it is the SBB, that these are all their branch companies that have been caring neatly and probably kept for years on the millions that Dragan Gilas robbed during the exercise of power in Serbia. This is just one of the attempts to continue the collapse of the Serbian state by suing for an unequal position, instead of fighting on the market, instead of enriching your contents, instead of multiplying your economic resources in some other way. When you get used to just stealing and kidnapping from other people's pockets, then of course this is the only way and one way to continue the attack on the Republic of Serbia, on Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. But I'm sure tomorrow we'll have an opportunity to see the counter offensive on everything we said today, because Marinika Tepic will certainly have an order from her employer. We know, of course, that Marinika Tepic is employed and that she receives a salary in "Multicom", which will try to spray all of this, which will try to fight crime and corruption again, and we know and we heard and we were witnesses and we and citizens of Serbia, that when the arrest of the Belivuk group and the fight against organised crime began, they were the first to be lawyers and when, I think, Belivuk himself had no official lawyer, Marinika Tepic, Dragan Dilas and the rest of the former regime were the first to side with Veljko Belivuk as a poor fan of Partizan who needed their protection. In order to give you further proof that my findings are indeed correct, here is another example, because yesterday the father of the missing young man appeared, the minister can also confirm, who says that a certain Veljko called him, that is Nenad Markovic, the father of the missing Strahinja Markovic from Resnik, who explained on one show what was happening just before his son disappeared, but then mentioned the invitation of a mysterious man who presented himself as Veljko, proposing that he share the story of his son's disappearance with the editorial of the research media "Krik". Of course, nothing would be so strange here, but what's strange is that the very invitation came from Veljko Belivuk directly and that Veljko Belivuk, who in his likely despair for his missing son, had to listen to both these things and refer to the media exactly for which we had the opportunity in the previous time to hear a salva of accusations and attempt to criminalise and participate actively in the criminalisation of Serbia's President, Alexander Vukic and the works of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the family of presidents, etc. So it's the same "Krik" that's always, and it's obviously going to be forever in the media link of everything that's Serbian, in all the interests of the Republic of Serbia and those who actively participate in profiting from everything that Dragan Gilas represents. If I didn't, for the last time, I'd just say one more time, and I promised you ministers that every time I'd commend you for all the efforts you've made in the previous period in action to arrest the Belivuk Group and organized mob organization, I'd congratulate you every time. That's what I'm doing this time. Please just one thing - that in this struggle the state of Serbia persists, because I know that we have strength, I know that we have motive, I know that we have why, I know that we have how and we know why. I ask you to endure in this fight and arrest those who claim to inherit Veljko Belivuk, as well as his entire network and organisation, but all those involved, all those who participated in the assassination attempt on the president of Serbia, the collapse of the state system. I'm asking you to be consistent with that and keep the party's booklet from protecting anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3799	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is Marijan Risticevic, as an authorised representative, for five and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the matter of security co-operation with Palestine's final events are evidence of why we should co-operate with all the countries, and with friends and opponents and allies, in matters of security. All citizens have the right to live, to freedom and to safety and to cooperate with everyone on the matter of security. What I find problematic is not about the Assembly, not about the government, not about the interior minister, about the judiciary. I don't know if our judiciary is mature to protect the innocent, punish the guilty, and whoever doesn't punish that new evil does, and it seems to me often for our judiciary that some judges protect the guilty more, and punish ordinary citizens instead of working the other way around. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already said a lot about agriculture. I have to underline, as far as cereal is concerned, we certainly vote for it, but with the desire to show the effort not to export mostly cereal, to subsidize it, because as we subsidize plant production, we are currently importing between 500 and 600,000 pigs a year. So we import more than we take pig meat and pig in pieces. When you turn, it's about 600,000 pieces. Many think that EU agriculture rests on far larger properties, and I must inform you that two-thirds of EU property is less than five hectares. The average property in Serbia is 5.7 hectares. So we have ideal conditions, by having fewer subsidies to start agricultural production towards the development of the food industry and, I repeat, by who knows which way, that in this way we win, first of all, thanks to "mini Schengen", we win the market in the region, of course, the EU markets and the markets of Russia and Belarus and other countries. Finally, let me conclude – God gives food to all birds, but he does not throw it into their nest. The second proverb says – God gives us nuts, but he does not break them. It's up to us to spend time working, trying, fighting, what Nikola Tesla told us to put together what God has given us. God has given us fertile land, climate, and valuable people. It is up to us to do what is possible to increase subsidies, so to go into large agricultural production, far more valuable, and in a few years, the value of our exports will be at least 10 billion euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3801	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word? Minister, do you want a word in the end? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3802	Thank you. Dear President, Madam Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, once again here in a relatively short period of time I want to thank you once again for the day of patience, the day of perseverance, the day of dedication, diligence and for once again showing why you were elected by the citizens of Serbia. I thank you all, of course, especially for your appreciation for the work of members of the MUP and for telling you, with great and complete certainty that they are working in the MUP with a fair, brave, dignified people and people whose interest is in the state of Serbia and the stability of the state of Serbia in front of their own interests and in front of anything else. That's why we exist, which is why there is an army of Serbia, which is why there is a BIA, and when the MUP is working with the BIA, with the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, when there is such a Supreme Commander as it has, I mean President Alexander Vukic, then success is safe and then the citizens of Serbia can be calm, calm and that every next time we deal with gangs that will always be, but they will be less dangerous, less organized, and every time our job will be easier. The security and stability of this country will be preserved as the security, security and dignity of every citizen of this country will be preserved. Thanks again and I'll see you soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-09-0.u3803	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, before I conclude the search, I would just like to ask you, given the importance of all these topics to repeat again. As we have repeatedly pointed out, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has indeed been very supportive of all measures taken and congratulated on the courage to take these measures in the fight against organised crime, that is, the mafia. In this regard, of course, we believe and it is quite clear that any relativization of the roles of these mob groups is also a direct support for criminal groups. I also want to say that this is not about people who have worked in the state system, and also about the ministry which is now being run by Minister Alexander Vulin, this is not about whether or not someone has misused the trust they have received, this is about these people breaking our country's constitutional system directly, that someone can listen to the unauthorized president of the republic who is an expression of the state unity of this country, with very important state powers that he has. It is without any relativization, it is that someone declares himself superior to the highest system by the Constitution of the intended authorities. It's a collapse of constitutional order and a coup. So I really want to say once again in the end that the National Assembly is expecting you and supports that it clearly determines why it was done, with which purpose, who was at the top of that system and of course taking action to arrest everyone who did it, whether they were listening or endangering the president's family or giving logistical support to the mob that is the greatest cancer for our society. In that sense, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic and the MUP, led by Alexander Vulin, will also have full support and, if necessary, the National Assembly is ready to discuss it here. I want to thank you again for your participation in today's session. Thank you. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 17.55 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Borislav Kovacevic, Djordje Komlenski and Aco Petrovic. We continue our work and move on to a joint single search on the 3rd and 4th item of the sitting agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Maja Popovic, Minister of Justice, Milan Dobijevic, Deputy Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Jovan Ćosic, Assistant Minister of Justice and Vladimir Vins, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a decision to elect a president, vice president and members of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services and a proposal for candidates for selecting members of the Major Anti-Corruption Agency. I just want to say that Justice Minister Maja Popovic called and said she'll be here in half an hour, since she's in a meeting with the president. I want to welcome, as I said, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Tatjana Matic. Am I also to ask if the motionary's representative, or the motionary, wants a word? Here you go.
