ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 157 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. You have been delivered the minutes of the 14th Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has delivered such a written note to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 14th Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly, held on 21st, 22nd and 23rd September. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 161, for – 154, did not vote – seven. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the fourteenth extraordinary session in the 12th Assembly. The session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a motion to merge the debate. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, based on Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 192, paragraphs 3, and as set out in Article 157. The Rules of Procedure, proposed a joint, single search on the Commission's work on competition protection for 2020, the report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2020, the report on the work of the Energy Agency for 2020 and the report on the work of the DRI for 2020. Since Mr. Martinovic is not here, I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 162, for – 154, did not vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 162, for – 153, did not vote – nine. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges, which are first elected to the judge's office. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the meetings of Vukica Kužić, Snezana Bjelogrlic and Jacques Pavlovic, election members of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Order of Judges. I ask the MPs' groups that unless they have already done so, they will immediately file a statement with the order of MPs. Before we move on to the debate, just so that according to our custom to inform you that we will work today and tomorrow, today on the first item of the agenda, and tomorrow on the proposal to merge the agenda points, and tomorrow will be the day to vote. According to Articles 192, paragraphs 3 and 201. I am opening my Rules of Procedure a single search into the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office. Proposer representative Vukica Kužić has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9678	The Honorable Chairman, MPs and MPs, on the basis of Article 47. The Law on Judges, the VSS announced in the "Official Messenger" RS, number 124/20 of 16 October 2020 and in the daily list "Politicals" of 20 October 2020 the choice of judges for: The General Court in Loznica, Main Court in Majdanpek, the General Court in Novi Sad, the General Court in Senta, the General Court in Surdulica, the Criminal Court in Bačka Palanca, the Criminal Court in Belgrade, the Criminal Court in Zajecar, the Criminal Court in the Kingdom and the Criminal Court in Pančevo. On the basis of the same member, the Council announced the choice of judges for the Business Court in Kragujevac in the "Official Messenger" RS, number 31/21 since 31 March 2021 and in the daily newspaper "Politika" on 2 April 2021. The expertise of the applicant's competence and dignity for those basic, infringement and commercial courts has been established by the Council on the basis of provisions of the Law on Judges, the Regulation on criteria and criteria for the assessment of professionality, competence and dignity for selecting judges in a permanent capacity in a second or higher court and on criteria for proposing candidates for the President of the Court of Justice and the Rules on the Programme and the method of laying down examinations assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. Pursuant to the procedure implemented, and in accordance with those legal and sublaw acts, and pursuant to Article 13(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on the Visa Council of the judiciary and on Article 51(1) The Law on Judges, the High Council of the judiciary, held on 15 September 2021, laid down the motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the selection of 17 candidates, by: Jelena Srdanović, prosecutor's assistant in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Šapac, proposed to elect a judge for the General Court in Loznica, Svetlana Jović, Judge at the Basic Court in Pozarevc, proposed to elect a judge for the General Court in the Court of Justice in Majdanpak, Mirna Vučić Bursac, Judge at the Court of Justice in Novi Sad, Jelena Obrenov, Judge in the Court of Justice in Novi Sad, Marko Petrović, proposed to elect the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice at the Court of Justice in the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Europeans of the European Union, the European Union for the European Union, the European Union for the European Union for the Court of Justice for the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union for the European Union for the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Republic of the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the Court of the Court of the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the Court of the Court of the Council for the Court of Justice of Justices, the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Council of the Court of the Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Council of the Council of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the European Union for the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Council of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Council of the Council of the Court of the Council of the Council of the Court of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the I will not read the personal and working biographies of the candidates proposed on this occasion, as they have been delivered to the MPs together with all relevant data and documents. If the MPs eventually challenge the proposed candidates or any of them, according to a positive regulation, I suggest that they explain their decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9679	Thank you. Do any of the boards of directors want a word? The word came from MP Djordje Dabic, a rapporteur in front of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9680	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and today the National Assembly is doing a job out of its jurisdiction under the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we elect judges at the first term. Certainly, there is no greater legitimacy for a judge or more honor than that the most legislative body has just chosen him to perform this responsible and important duty. I am absolutely sure that there will be words in the tide today, of course, about all these solutions, but to all those chosen, I congratulate you, because, I say, there is no greater legitimacy than when the National Assembly chooses you as representatives of the people to perform such an important and responsible function as the judge's function in the name of the people. Soon, of course, according to the amendments to the Constitution, there will be no more elected judges in the way that has been the case so far. In line with our international obligations and these recommendations from the Venice Commission, we will make a new solution. It will soon be before the MPs, when constitutional amendments come into force. It is precisely the role of the National Assembly that will move on to the High Council of the judiciary and to the State Major Prosecutors, who will receive a new title, as you said – the High Council of Prosecutors. It's been our international obligation for eight years. Of course, Serbia is fulfilling everything that is in line with our European agenda. We want to become a full member of the EU, we want to continue to improve the position of the judiciary itself in Serbia, but what is important is to point out that I am absolutely sure that these constitutional amendments will go in the direction that the Assembly will continue to maintain this important role in the process of electing judges, even indirectly through the possibility of delegating people to the High Council of Justice itself. This is very important, because it must not be demoted by the mutual division of the authority established by Charles Monteskje. Legislative, executive and judicial authorities must control or, as some say, check each other. If we let one branch of government become completely independent of the other two, we would have major problems, we would have anarchy. That is why it is very important for these constitutional amendments to define the clear role of parliament, I say in the election of members of the VSS and the High Council of Prosecutors, in order to maintain a simple link between the people and the holders of judicial functions. We are doing this because, above all, we want to improve the situation of the judiciary, not only because of our international obligations and the EU, but also because of ourselves. The current provisions concerning the judiciary in the Constitution also have a lot of inconsistencies. We've heard in public hearings that there are many inconsistencies, you've got a certain number of outstretched items, they're understandardized somewhere, so we're making changes to the Constitution because of us. This should the citizens know and, of course, that changes to the Constitution do not apply to the preamble of the Constitution and the fact that it will remain in our Constitution that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia. I say we make these changes to the Constitution and because of our European path. Of course, as you know, the current European perspective of the entire Western Balkans is one question if there is any further expansion at all. As you know, three EU members strongly oppose further enlargement. President Aleksandar Vukic is also almost at the Bled Forum and Brdo near Kranj, one of the few leaders who had the guts to ask the great European countries and their officials - can we even expect to continue the expansion to the Western Balkans? None of the other participants, especially from here in the region, were allowed to direct specific European officials whether or not we can talk further about the enlargement process, since they are not ready to set any deadlines, they are not ready to commit anything, but thanks to this pressure from our country they have come up with one solution, that citizens should know, which will certainly be good for us as some possible substitute for only full membership, that 30 billion euros through the EU's plan in the coming years, will invest in our region. This is certainly important news for all citizens of the entire Balkans, but above all, I am talking, of course, about our citizens, that a third of that money is about to come to Serbia. It is a good indicator that the EU really should help here and promote, if we already believe that idea of enlargement. We really believe that the whole Balkans should become part of the EU, but I say the best way to build trust in the EU is by helping all countries in the Balkans with a specific package, because we have had enough stories of sticks and carrots. So, specifically help this region and in this way you will raise confidence in the EU that has been enough in recent years, the president said, has fallen in our country. Once again, we will, of course, continue to support all our obligations under the European Agenda. There will be constitutional changes concerning the choice of judges. The Serbian Progressive Party has no problem, we are today the only one, when you look at the entire spectrum politically in Serbia, the pro-European party. So, we are talking about the necessity to join the EU, but, of course, critically when we talk about the EU, we do not forget that the EU is individually our largest external trade partner. Of course we will fulfill everything on the agenda when it comes to this European agenda. In the voting day, we will support all proposals that are in front of the MPs today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9681	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The vice president of the National Assembly, Dr Muamer Zukorlic, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9682	The Honorable Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly with Associates, the other Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the honourable representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens, the subject of the judiciary, one of the very frequent which lies before us, and will be on schedule for some time, is of particular importance that in our own particular sense, because we are able to choose the proposed judges, but even more fundamentally, because the judiciary is the measure of ethics, culture and may be able to express the spiritual health of a society. So, the very coin of the judiciary points to an institution where justice is tried. Having a judiciary means having an institution that is responsible for correct judgment and judgment. Every community, from the least called family, to the wider one called society in general, cannot be deprived of disputes, devoid of certain disagreements, certain courts of interest and various other forms of, to say, a disorder of harmony, when it happens, and it is nothing strange or terrible, and the most orderly societies have such disorders, or incidents. And it's no problem that there may be an injustice somewhere. Injustice is an integral part of human culture in some way and it is not possible to create society, to raise society, to raise society, to educate society without injustice. So that's not possible. There will always be injustice, as long as there is a man, there will be injustice. So any organization or community that claims to have no injustice is the most injustice. So injustice is an integral part of human life in an individual and collective sense. But what is the problem? The problem is that if we don't have an institution or we don't have an adequate institution in which this injustice can be corrected, and that's actually the role of the judiciary, that it's the last line of defense of justice, when injustice happens, or any possible injustice, or anyone's claim that injustice, justice, or justice system exists to actually eliminate that injustice. As long as we have that society, that level of government, that level of system that would work well, that society is healthy, that state is well organized. So, injustice will always happen, but as long as there is an instance, a level, a system level where we can address it to correct that injustice, that society is, I say, healthy, on a good path and that state works well. So it's not the first time we've talked about this, of course there are significant steps in the healing of our judicial system, and these legal and these political ones, the hardest thing to do is actually to choose judges who will meet two conditions. One is formal, the other is essential. This formal check is easier to establish, and I believe that the competent authorities in the procedure of proposing candidates, i.e. new candidates for the selection of judges, have respected it, after all, and this is a visible matter in the biographies, i.e. the CVs of candidates, and it is verifiable whether the candidate fulfils these formal conditions in terms of education and all that the election procedure provides. In addition to this formal condition which is visible and which is easily verifiable, what should be our desire is to find righteous judges. So that's what a mission bordering utopia is, especially in some perfectionist sense, because justice and justice are hard to verify, except after years of trial practice, for example. Then only then can you, after the long-standing practice of a judge, be relatively able to have an assessment of his justice, or his justice in the trial, or proceedings in court cases. However, regardless of what is an inexplicable category, which is something that is not easily proven, easily verifiable, because we do not have a detector for justice, it is an ethical category, it is metaphysical, it is not physical, it is not material and it is not verifiable, it is something that can be pursued, of course, again pointing out that it is also the most just judge we can choose and that will prove our justice in practice relatively just. And the most righteous judge sometimes finds it wrong, because the judge judges by what he sees, according to what is presented to him in the court material of certain evidence, or fact. So, the judge primarily judges on the basis of facts, not including a certain impression, because sometimes the fact is not clear, and the judge is a man, and in addition to the maximum objective desire, or the desire to judge objectively, cannot rule out that subjective relationship which does not have to be unfairly subjective, but which represents a kind of impression after the judge hears both lawyers, both the prosecutor and the defense attorney. So that's what the fact is. I'm saying, even the most just judge can get the wrong verdict, but that's allowed, that's not something that can be considered negative. It's negative if we have a fundamentally unfair judge, or if we have, God forbid, a corrupt judge, so, then we have a problem. Because a fair judge, it's like a proper scale. And on the right scale, it can be wrong, but very little and very rare. And on a broken scale, even the most just can't measure rightly, can't measure rightly. So, both on a broken scale and fair are thieves, so they can't measure right. This, therefore, is what should be the desire of the whole society, headed by this National Assembly, that is, every assembly of the National Assembly, but also with all the bodies established in order to reach the most just solution through the selection procedure. Someone will say – well, we respect it, we do so, we use all mechanisms of procedure, including all other knowledge and information, monitoring these candidates from the very first opportunities they get in the judiciary as trainees or some similar category. So, formally, it is like that. But why the need to open these topics? Because we have examples that point out that, in addition to a large number of justice systems, I hope that the largest number, the just judges who seek to judge justly in accordance with the law and in accordance with the facts that come into the investigation procedure, that is to say, see these facts, but unfortunately, we have some problems in certain segments of the judicial system that need to be spoken of until such events are completely eliminated. So, as MPs, we are in a position to receive permanent information, various complaints, various complaints from citizens who actually experience us the way they should experience us, their MPs, their envoys, their representatives in the highest legislative, highest representative and highest supervisory body in this country, and that is the National Assembly. Whether what the citizens ask of us on one hand is legitimate and legal in terms of what we represent them, regardless of whether it was in any of our direct jurisdiction that we can resolve it or cannot resolve it, but they have the right, and we have the obligation not to reject it, even if their demands were meaningless in terms of our competences. But there's no sense of demand for a citizen. So he chose us and we are obliged to represent him, to the extent that we can help him solve his problem, we are obliged to do so to the extent that we are not able to do so, or we are not in a position or we are not in charge, then we are under obligation and we are competent to talk about it. That's what we're doing here. So as long as we have some drastic examples of inadequate, unprofessional and unethical behaviour of certain judges, we need to talk about it publicly. The latest example comes back from Tutina, so I've even received documentation that, if necessary, I'm going to give to the D.A. and other competent authorities, that you simply don't believe that such a thing can happen in this country in the 21st century. We have a kind of political authority in the bar and the judiciary, a trio that was created in a way that you simply don't believe that someone could have dared to commit an organized crime in the relationship between the municipal authorities in Tutin, personified in the municipal defender who is a son, whose father is a judge, therefore, and you have a third point, President of the Dubovo City Community in Tutin, who died, moved, died years ago, and who continues to sign certain acts. So, the sale of land, municipal, state-owned, I don't have the details here, and now the first step in that sale is the President of the Meat Community with which the contract is made, he's signing the contract. The alienation is done at very low prices because it is understood that it is not wise to buy state or municipal property expensively, which you would buy expensively, so that is the meaning of all crime and moving on. So, since, I don't know, to legalize it, you get into a certain dispute. So the lawsuit comes to the judge, the father's judge. In order for everything to go according to plan, it is necessary not to show up or not to regret the municipal attorney, if I am precise in formulating these relations, but this is all verifiable, I am not obliged here to be judicial or judicially precise, because I speak politically, but very clearly. Of course, there is no municipal defender who is supposed to defend municipal land, or people’s land, and afterwards, the judge’s father makes a ruling that the contract is valid and that the land of the people is redeemed for nothing, and it has been going on for several years. So, according to my information, the man died at least three years ago. His signatures are on contracts, so a dead man is signing still contracts in the country of Serbia in the 21st century and it works normally. This isn't about interparty bickering or attitudes, so now something is relative and putting some of your views on the impression. So these are the papers, I've seen these papers, copies, though, but I don't think there's any reason that there are no originals. So that's verifiable. Of course, the moment this goes public, here it comes out right now, I'm sure there will be a mechanism for investigating this crime. So, I don't doubt it, but what's more tragic with me is whether we're going to react now, whether the competent judicial or prosecutor's authorities are going to react, I'm sure they will, because we won't let them react, but the problem is how it's possible it's been going on for years and it's necessary for the MP to bring it out in the National Assembly to find out about something like that at all. That's what's frantic, that's what's terrible, and in fact how is it possible for us to have, say, in the judicial system such a relationship that can't be unknown to the police, which can't be unknown to the competent services that deal with it. That's what I'm saying we can't have a healthy system unless the entire, judicial, let's call the police vascular system is healthy. So, if some capillaries are blocked we can't say – well, these are some capillaries out there in a Tutina, we don't care, because there's some SDA in power that's usurped everything that could be usurped up, held power for over 20 years, held that people in a kind of gas chamber. So to understand the psychological dimension, the very fact that citizens have been drinking dirty water for nearly three decades and allegedly voting for that power. Now, explain to me what this is. I made a joke when they asked me why they wouldn't vaccinate in Tutin, I say, well, they're vaccinated with dirty water, they drink always dirty water, they strengthen their immunity, and they don't have to be vaccinated. Of course, this is a joke, this is discretion, so it's not all pretentious. So that's the state where the citizens of Tutina are. Now we can say, they chose that power. It's not the only government in Tutin, the municipal government, we have judicial authority, we have police power, we have dozens of state institutions that are not on the line of local self-government or choices set and elected. And that's where we have this particular policy at the bar and these institutions, and here, right now, I'm saying, concrete results. Of course, I was already talking about the behaviour of the prosecutor's assistant in the Senate when we had this ferocious, bloodthirsty murder, humanists and journalists, the rickety of Edin Hamidovic, where you have a factography, just to check that the person who committed the murder already had two criminal charges that were in the prosecutor's assistant's drawer, one for illegal carrying a weapon, and the other for assaulting an official. Two very clear, very drastic cases where an assistant prosecutor keeps it in a drawer. These things cannot leave us indifferent and we cannot say. Well, well, there are cases. No, it's not cases, it's systemic phenomena on something geographically looks like the periphery of the state, but we can't or can't, or I won't settle for saying it – well, you know, prosecutors are independent. Please, so what do they have to kill us to be independent? Please, don't, we won't get back together with those answers for sure. It took me too long to get this part of the subject, although I wanted to point out something important, as far as these events are concerned in the stadiums, which is in an implicit relationship with the judiciary about the need to react. So, you've got a New Market again at a handball game of chauvinist outflows by a group of Red Star fans. It's something we can't really leave at the level to condemn and move on and do it all over again, we need to find a cure first. Of course, one aspect is judicial, but it's not the only one. So we must face these forms of chauvinism, nationalism wider. What hurts me is that you want this society, intellectual and political, that we all somehow leave ourselves to dominate those worst hooligan structures of fans that they dictate our relations, that they decide that we will improve the relationship between Bosniaks and Serbs or we will spoil them. What we do in the field of reconciliation, in the field of various cohesion activities, dating, elimination of everything that is destructive, that we let a group of hooligan fans actually dictate these relationships. That's terrible. I call on all members of the elite at the level of Serbia and the political nature, and above all intellectually, not to be run over by hooligan groups of fans who fall to the lowest level, let me say, the social layer in the cultural, mental and ethical sense and that they dictate whether we hate or love each other. It's terrible and it's unacceptable and it can't be accepted as something common, as an integral part of something that's happening. I'm afraid of it and not getting used to it, that it becomes normal. When you get used to it, it means that such a deviation, that such a dangerous thing, the spread of hate, you tolerate and accept as an integral part of our cultural pattern. So that's something we all have to engage in together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9683	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9684	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to start my own exposure with a small reference to the importance of the justice system in one country at all. In particular, the judicial system of every country, including ours, represents the first pillar of rule of law, and at the same time we can say to it that the performance and most important, given that all other pillars depend on it, or cannot function without an effective judicial system. That is why it is important for any country that claims to be democratic or democratic to have a good and efficient judicial system from which it will continue to produce concrete and good guidelines for other pillars of the rule of law. We have spoken and mentioned the basic values of the EU and those so far, and are now covering the rule of law and respect for human rights. The area is in Serbia, which claims to become an EU member regulated through Chapter 23 and cannot be said not to take active steps to meet its obligations under that chapter. With this in mind, Serbia continued to implement the Action Plan that it adopted in July 2016, even before accession negotiations began, and also adopted an amended Action Plan in July 2020, which is adapted in line with commitments Serbia must fulfil on its way to the EU. In the latest Annual Report on Serbia's October 2020 progress, the European Commission's general conclusion is that Serbia's judicial system has achieved a certain level of preparedness. This means that no progress has been made in the period of publication between the two annual reports, but this, on the other hand, leads us to conclude that the current and constitutional but also the legislative framework in Serbia represent, i.e. leave quite enough room for improvement, and thus action in line with the guidelines. As can be seen, the activities of the current assembly are being called upon to improve that space, primarily through constitutional changes, which we are currently implementing, but also to amend and supplement a number of laws. Their common and unique goal is to strengthen and guarantee the independence of the judiciary, but also to establish a fully objective, transparent and credit-based system for choosing judicial functions, transfer, promotion of judges and prosecutors, etc. which will also encourage their expertise, but also improve the quality of work and judges, as well as courts. In this respect, appropriate concrete steps have indeed been taken to improve transparency, with the aim of improving transparency, 4,000 anonymous verdicts, the judgments of four appeals courts, a number of decisions of appeals and infringements have been placed in an online database. These decisions are now available to judges, which can certainly benefit them in situations where they decide in actions similar to them. However, those who work in the judiciary, but also citizens who daily exercise their law and the Constitution of guaranteed rights, will tell you that there is still a lot of work to be done here. First of all, I mean the necessity of connecting different existing databases, including one that will contain European Court of Human Rights rulings. In addition, the Serbian judicial system continues to rely on several different applications for managing non-linked cases. It is this comprehensive system at the level of the entire country, which would process and connect objects through a network of courts and prosecutors with appropriate technological support that must be our goal, that is, for a future period. The technical work on introducing a system for managing cases for the prosecution and the prison administration at national level began during October 2019, but as far as I know the work on this issue has not yet been completed and that is what is ahead for us in the coming period. When such a comprehensive and centralised system for the management of court cases and documents at the country's level is established, it will, as such, ensure a more efficient processing of the case, but also facilitate the handling of these same cases. I think that in the tide, I have said about justice and about judges first elected to the judicial office countless times, and I have repeated that Serbia must find an appropriate environment, or balance between the need to modernise the judiciary on the one hand through the application of European standards, but also the desire to give citizens more confidence in the entire justice system. I think that this was partially achieved by the new Justice Development Strategy for the 2020/2025 period. and it is the basis for further reforms in the area of justice, and it can be said to represent this golden environment that we need in order to balance what we want as a state and what we are able to do. That's why I felt it was necessary to share all these challenges that lie ahead of our judicial system on three continents. One of them is strengthening the independence and independence of the judiciary. That is the basic principle of every rule of law, including Serbia. We've done a lot in that field over the past period, which we do today. For example, clear criteria have been defined for selecting the functions of the judge and the public prosecutor, their deputies. However, I am of the opinion that what we must continue to work on is strengthening the role and position of the Judicial Academy. This will undoubtedly contribute to a better preparation of personnel to perform judicial functions at a wide range of levels. Speaking of this subject, I would also mention the necessity of judicial co-operation at all levels with law schools, so we have been working to improve and educate the lawyers themselves ever since they started. On the one hand, students learn about the system in this way, but they also face real problems, but also during their studies, not later when they are already starting to perform significant and important judicial functions. In addition, it is necessary to organise open tables more frequently because I believe that different opinions between different judicial functions and their mutual co-operation that will thus strengthen, strengthen their communication and contribute to this goal that I was just talking about. Furthermore, the constitutional changes are aimed at liberating any influence in the process of elections, proposals, transfer and termination of the office of judges, the president of judges, public prosecutors. All of this is aimed at strengthening the independence of the judiciary in our country. The second goal, which I thought should be singled out as a whole, is the efficiency of the judiciary. This is a challenge that I will not be long on because it is a matter of efficiency in the work of the judicial authorities of the subject that is constantly being discussed in the Assembly and perhaps this is also the most sensitive subject, because it is affected by a large number of different factors. The main problem is the unbalanced burden of courts and it is doubtless that by giving meaning to alternative ways of resolving disputes, there is a certain discharge, but I am still not sure whether it is a discharge, or whether it is the only way we can apply it to relieve the courts. Whether this will lead to a smaller or larger reduction in volume and better distribution remains for us to see, with a view to the fact that citizens are still not happy to accept it, that is to say they are reluctant to commit themselves to self-mediation as a way of resolving disputes, but rather to get into litigation and thus solve their problem or to exercise some of their rights. Finally, the e-Justice that is conditioned by the rapid development of information technologies affects all segments of our lives, including the judiciary. And in this part of Serbia has made some progress, different databases have been formed, court portals are arranged registers but, as I mentioned earlier, they are not mutually coordinated through a single base that makes it difficult to work with all the individual bases that exist. For it to be an effective e-Justice of the sea, among other things, to regulate and to be able to file complaints against citizens on the work of judges and courts in electronic form and to establish a human resources base in the prosecutions, as only in this way will it be possible to carry out a review and staff, but also those real problems that citizens have when they meet with judicial authorities. Judges whose election we are discussing today must make their full contribution to improving the transparency of work. A large number of judges come from smaller backgrounds and citizens in the environments where they come from know and see them daily in some human daily activities. Personally, I think the best satisfaction for each of them is that their work is just being recognized as good by the citizens, or the environment in which they live. From there comes their respect and respect. Judges must show that the judicial system is there to serve citizens in the exercise of their laws and the Constitution of guaranteed rights, because it is the only way we can preserve and preserve the justice system at the level at which it deserves to be. In the end, one message for the judges. Let your primary task at work be to help citizens to make a difference, or to realize that justice and justice are not the same, not to defend the work that has been done but to the man who is presumed to be, because as in other segments of life, each of our actions has its consequences, and it depends on us what these consequences will ultimately be. It is up to you to judge by conscience, knowledge, art, and that is only possible if you do the work you love, completely impartially, objectively and without any external influence. These are your challenges, and if you know about the fairy tale of the Turtle and the Rabbit, you know that if you have a goal, and you know that you are expected to meet it, then assure the citizens that justice, although slow, is available, but also accessible. In all of this, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support your election in the voting day, so that you may be more motivated to do your job as expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9685	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia Group, Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9686	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we are able to elect candidates for judges in five basic, five violations, as well as in the Privred Court in Kragujevac. Of course, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support these proposals in the voting day. The choice of judges falls within the constitutional jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is defined by Article 99 of that Constitution and for several years a public debate is being held on the need for constitutional changes to increase the degree of independence of the judicial branch of the government, i.e. that the judicial branch of the government also acquires an additional, higher degree of independence, independence, especially in this section concerning the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a draft proposal for constitutional changes related to the judiciary and the judicial branch of power. These days, the Venice Commission will declare the draft drafted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Our representatives, our colleagues from the Justice Committee, as far as I know, are and will attend this plenary session of the Venice Commission, I think the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will also attend this plenary session and I assume we will get a positive opinion from the Venice Commission on these constitutional changes, which will continue the procedure that we started in the National Assembly. What I have to say to this occasion is that even under the existing Constitution, we have guaranteed independence from the judicial branch of power. Namely, Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees judges or holders of judicial functions the continuity and irrevocability of the judicial function, except after the first election, when elected for three years. The intensity and intention of these constitutional changes is heading towards increasing the independence of the judicial branch of government, primarily from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But I must note and draw attention to the fact that the National Assembly is a reflection of the people's will, the attitude of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that it is an analogy and a choice of judges that is an expression of the same will. We in the Unique Serbia think that's not the point. What we would say from Unity Serbia is that even the best defined system of choice of judges, which would provide independence of the judiciary, can be unthinked in its implementation, for a simple reason, because it is not only up to the system, but to the people, to each individual holder of judicial function, or to each individual judge, to its professional, moral and other qualities. The famous French writer and lawyer Henri Bordeaux said -- there's always some danger in the judiciary, if it's not the law, it's the judges. And that's what I wanted to say. It's all about people. That's what we were saying, personally I was saying, and in the code of conduct of the MPs, that no code of conduct can let a MP who wants to break the code and wants to make an incident, he will do it, he will certainly not stop the Codex. It's the same in this case. A good judge, the one who has sworn to judge by law and law, who is committed to his work, if he is professional and faithful to the oath he has made, the one who respects accepted values in society, such a judge was, is and will be independent in every judicial system. Those individuals who, fortunately, are very few, look at their own personal or perhaps even political interest in everything were not, nor would they, independent judges, because they did not commit themselves to the right and sworn oath, but were bound to the personal interest or interest of some political option they support. Our writer, lawyer, historian and professor, Svetislav Rajačić says - The laws do not depend on those who appoint them, or who bring them, but depend on those who implement them. In this case, of those who judge by those laws and judge. And our Nobel laureate Ivo Andric, whose board we proudly keep here in this large hall of the National Assembly, in his work "Signs by the Road," says: "They say there is a place of true court and full of truth. It is a place where truth shines, where justice reigns." To the question -- where is this place, he said, "That's between us, where we stand. Be brave, honest, steadfast, humanitarian, reasonable and just, and such a place will be everywhere your foot steps in and your word echoes. "These words can be the best guide to any judge in their work. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in its first position, in Article 152, says "The political functioning of judges is prohibited". Unfortunately, we have had the opportunity to see an example of the judge calling for political emissions, not to give a legal opinion on some of the issues that are important to society, but to give political courts and attitudes. He keeps talking about the interference of the authorities in the work of the judiciary, constantly commenting on parliamentary decisions on the election of prosecutors and judges, and I am asking the question here - and what about the interference of judges, that judge in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the President of the Republic of Serbia? Let's talk about this hypocrisy of the one who constantly complains and, as a mantra, repeats that executive and legislative authority are involved in the work of the judges, probably leading to the saying that a hundred times the lied lie becomes true. According to him, it is obvious that only the judicial branch of the authorities is independent of the executive and legislative powers, and that executive and legislative powers and that they can as holders of judicial functions interfere in their work. How long has this hypocrisy been going on? How long have you had double standards? How long has this falsely and in Serbia negatively created public opinion and advocacy for some on the side? We can also talk here about the abuse of a legal holder. Francis Becon said, "A wrongful verdict makes more evil than many unjust acts." I ask the question - what about the verdict of the gjilan group? Ciceron said that overly strict application of law can lead to great injustice. And I ask the question - and why does this gentleman in question not ask and talk about the work of the opposition that puts the most open and direct pressure on the judiciary, and their mouths are full of independence of the judiciary? Well, where are you going to make a more obvious example of the abuser Dragan Gilas, where there is also an official note of domestic violence, and where is part of the executive government, but certainly not a part of the judicial authority published on this issue, and that official note and that case remains unsolved? Or, say, where are you going to take a more obvious example than his employee at his company "Multicom", Marinika Tepic, who goes, that a statement in the Higher Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, and then, after leaving the building, in front of the Higher Prosecutor's Office building in the Kingdom, agrees that she was promised something that was never promised in that prosecution and which is why she forced the prosecution itself to deny that statement? Are these not the most obvious examples of pressure on the judiciary and on the judicial system? We in the Single Serbia believe that the principle of judicial independence is the central postulate of a democratic order based on the rule of law. But we believe that judicial independence is not worthy of itself and cannot be viewed as the privilege of a branch of state or a holder of judicial functions, but as an institutional means of protecting human rights and freedoms. In order to fully achieve this objective of an independent, impartial judiciary based on the foundations of respect and protection of human rights and freedom, it is necessary that judges themselves contribute to this by means of expertise, training and commitment. In fact, Rikofferi said – the laws are worth as much as the people who are invited to apply them. Of course, we need to improve and prepare every area of our society, including the judiciary. It needs to be made even more efficient, more quality and better. There are no authorities without people, people without material goods, material goods without prosperity, or prosperity without justice and good politics. A unique Serbia advocates Serbia's rule of good people, Serbia's prosperity and justice. We believe that all these proposed candidates meet these, not only basic norms required by one judicial function bearer, but also meet those other criteria of moral and all others. We will, of course, support all these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9687	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next speaker, one announcement about today's work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly, MP Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9688	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Yevdzic. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, it is always difficult to speak after a respected colleague of Starcevic when he brings out such things and thank him for it and always shows that he is a gifted speaker and is very well prepared. Thank him for that. Today, we have before us a proposal for a decision by the High Council of the judiciary on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. It is about future judges of primary courts in Majdanpek, Novi Sad, Sainta and Surdulica, as well as future judges in criminal courts in Belgrade, Zajecar, Kraljev, Pancheva, and the Kragujevac Business Court. We from the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" want to believe that the High Council of the Judiciary in the best way, fairly and objectively evaluated the expertise, the skills and dignity of the candidates that he has proposed to us for the first time to vote for a judicial function. We also hope that no one will ever again reach for such a catastrophic, quasi-defying reform of the judiciary, as it was in 2009 when judges and prosecutors were elected along the political and party lines, not according to the criteria of dignity for making a judicial or prosecutorial call. Therefore, as a constant alarm and a warning that no work should be done, we must bear in mind the fact that the reform of the Serbian judiciary, or all of us citizens alone, has cost more than 44m euros in money. So much has been paid for the salaries of unselected 836 judges and 75 deputy prosecutors for those two years that these people, through the will of high policy, had no right to work. It is 579 judges of the basic courts, 152 judges of senior courts, 70 judges of business courts, 11 judges of the Court of Commerce, 24 judges of the Supreme Court and 75 public prosecutors and their deputies. The rest of the damage that was done to justice, justice and the right not to speak. If the proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the area of justice are adopted soon, the High Judicial Council will no longer have the obligation to ask the legislative authority, i.e. Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If constitutional amendments and constitutional law are adopted as proposed and implemented at the request of the EU, but also the legislative authority is fully withdrawn from the bodies elected by judges and the way public prosecutors are elected. The judges will no longer be elected in the National Assembly, but will be done by the High Council of the judiciary, as prosecutors will not be elected by parliament at the government's proposal, but also by the High Council of Prosecutors. How all of this will look and whether it will be more of a provision for the right and citizens of hungry justice, we will know only when and if these changes come into effect. We are left with only hope that in Serbia 672 years after the passage of the Law of the Blessed Emperor Stefan, i.e. Dusan's code, power with pride and satisfaction to realize that the members of the 171 and 172th laws of Serbia are more than current today. I would point out, especially this 172, that in 1349, the Serbian emperor made it easier for the judges of the time, freeing them from fear and obligation to judge according to the emperor's will, which today would have to be a postulate of justice and justice, all judges to judge by the law, the law as it says in the law, not to judge by the fear of the empire. When the National Assembly of Serbia withdraws from the election decision, the new judicial emperor will become and remain the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It will bear a burden and responsibility for the exercise of principles and legality and obligation to be tried solely by law and justice. Dear Vice-Presidents of Parliament, honourable representatives of the VSS, honourable MPs, in the voting day, we will support the election of new judges and their entry into office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9689	Thank you. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9690	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the VSS, respected citizens of Serbia, is before us today the proposal for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time and the proposal for a decision addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the VSS. In this conference of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have very often discussed the proposals for decisions that come to us by the High Council of the judiciary, and these decisions aim to ensure that all judicial authorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are able to carry out their affairs in a more uninterrupted and up-to-date manner. Indeed, the up-to-dateness is one of the main priorities of all judicial authorities, as this is exactly how citizens of the Republic of Serbia can make their constitution and law-guaranteed rights more effective and efficient. And if the citizens of the Republic of Serbia thus exercise their rights, their trust in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia remains unquestionable. We People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia are putting the issue of legal certainty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia first and we show this through the process and discussions and decisions on the draft laws and proposals for decisions that come to us both by the Ministry of Justice and by the High Council of the judiciary. When we talk about the motion for a decision addressed to the National Assembly, the High Council of the Judiciary has issued a choice in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges for Fundamental, Infringement and Business Court. Following the end of the applications after the ad, the High Council of the judiciary carried out the procedure for each candidate individually, in which it determined their expertise, skills, dignity, and then, carried out a test for future Judges, then established a proposal for a decision and referred it to the National Assembly and the Competent Committee for Justice. We have thus been given the opportunity today to discuss and debate the future 17 holders of judicial functions, which will indeed contribute to their knowledge and expertise in judicial proceedings to decide on someone's rights, obligations and freedoms, but which will also help with their knowledge and expertise to ensure that the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and the legal system remains objective, independent and impartial. These three terms of objectivity, impartiality and independence are three key elements in order to ensure that the legal order of a country remains unique and protected, while at the same time the judicial authority continues to exercise its fundamental role, which is to protect citizens from the will of executive and legislative authorities and to decide on their rights and freedoms, and certainly in certain procedures and their obligations. Today, when we talk about judges, being a judge in the Republic of Serbia is an honor, but at the same time also a responsibility and obligation, because citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect you to judge by law and justice, but never by any of your actions, not by any decision you make, or by any means affect, to harm and violate the fundamental postulates of judicial authorities, as third branches, or independent branches of government, which is that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal before the law and that all the Constitution and the law guarantee the right to judicial protection. Yes, there are situations where representatives of the legislative and executive authorities wanted the third branch of the government, i.e. to form the judiciary according to their wishes, in accordance with their interests and in line with the political interests of the political parties from which they come. We had such a situation just over 10 years ago when a shameful reform of the judiciary was carried out. When you look at the period from the end of 2009 to the beginning of 2010, and when the general re-election of judges is carried out, it is from the historical point of view of an extremely short period, and we can see it from the historical point of view as a single point of view in history, but we are trying to correct that point today and this point is very black and it is undercut by the ignorance and mistakes of the representatives of the former government. Those who were intoxicated with the power of belief that everything belonged to them in this desire and that they could make all the decisions in this country also wanted to change certain constitutional assets and in this way wanted to change and the principle of the division of powers defined by the Constitution to be divided into legislative, executive and judicial powers, and in such a way that the judicial authority would in some way join the executive authorities, that they could directly influence the judicial authority, in the way decisions were taken, etc. This passion and their ossion of politics that adorned them by 2012 managed to implement the general re-election of judges. The then Justice Ministry, headed by Snezana Malovic, the DS minister, announced along with the High Council of the judiciary an ad for the general re-election of judges for the first time in Serbia's modern history. What re-election that happened then, and today we see its consequences, is that after the re-election, thousands and a half of judges, or judges and prosecutors, remain on the street, which has cost us more than 44m euros, and what has been left a truly negative picture of all international institutions that monitor progress in the area of justice, when we talk about the Republic of Serbia. The DS summit then, knowing all the negative things they were dealing with from 2000 to 2012, saw at a certain point that they would not get the political support they expect in the upcoming elections and knew that at a certain point they would ask the question and all the things that they did in the past the law and wanted for themselves and their political commissioners to provide a certain degree of abolition, and that the abolition could best be achieved through judges and prosecutors, which you put in the re-election of judges. Since 2010, the struggle of judges and prosecutors has started, and I would say that the fight was more like a fight with the Jedi in the form of DS where the people who announced the reform, or announced an ad for the general election and implemented the reform until the end, predetermined the rules for who can pass, who can't pass, and then the struggle of judges and prosecutors with a system that at that point did not want to admit his mistake. When we talk about judges and prosecutors, the results of this reform are that some have not achieved their moral and professional satisfaction because they have not experienced being returned to work by the Constitutional Court, some have experienced a difficult state of health to return to their work, and they have all been confronted with the struggle that the Constitutional Court will make a decision two years after that, when it comes out of the rake DS, and that the VSS and the Ministry of Justice have not implemented that reform in accordance with the Constitution and that they have been violated their basic right, by the Constitution guaranteed right, which is the right to work. Indeed, we have spoken here in the National Assembly many times about this judicial reform. We have defined the basic mistakes that these reforms have been made, and the mistakes that have affected that reform of the judiciary, as far as I can tell, are disastrous, which are that false data have been used, that they have not been used that information about the impact of the judges and prosecutors who were in their home courts, that you were faced with the situation, if both other spouses of the judicial functions, that they had to divorce their marriages, without talking about the way and composition of the first call of the VSS and the second called by the VSS that made much more criminal decisions, than they were decisions in the election of judges and prosecutors. When we talk about people who participated in this shameful reform of the judiciary, we can see today that Nata Mesarevic is the award-winning president of the Supreme Cassation Court. This is the judge who led one of the biggest and most extensive proceedings in the history of the Serbian judiciary, and when she came to the verdict and told the Special Court's microphone -- I will now read this verdict that I just received. I think we no longer have to comment on it, how many negative decisions it has made to talk today about this shameful reform of the judiciary, and not to mention Snezana Malovic, who was baptised for her decisions by those who represented the main ideological capital of the then DS, and unfortunately, I must say, individuals were rewarded by places in the basic and senior and appeals and Supreme Cassation Court because they were in a certain way close DS. You, when you sit today, representatives of the VSS, I know that some citizens of the Republic of Serbia who watch this transmission will resent what I say, but that is the truth. I've talked many times in this room about how we should open up all the cards that concern the judiciary and have DS representatives, the DS representatives at the time, because this DS doesn't look at all now, nor does it have the support that the DS had at the time, answers who was sitting on Crown Street, DS headquarters, two nights before the judge's election, who was scribbled on these lists, who was throwing those judges out and who was making those comments from the DS Summit for certain judges that they were incompetent or unprofessional. When we open all these things, we will see how justice reform was carried out, and this reform of the judiciary was conducted exclusively in order to achieve DS interests. What matters most is that all of us have cost 44m euros, but we also see today that these same DS representatives are using and spending millions to make a good picture of themselves, that citizens are talking about them all the best, and they're doing it through certain fictitious loans with multimillion amounts, but they're doing it very badly. And the best example today is that Dragan Gilas and his "Multicom Group", who gave a number of fictitious loans to people close to Dragan Gilas and their firms to buy loyalty and loyalty and not to talk about all the things they know that Dragan Gilas worked while he was mayor of Belgrade. In my hand today, I hold this shameful map of how the "Multicom Group" has paid itself to close people and to close, to journalists and to PR agencies and to certain politicians of certain fictitious loans, in order to buy their loyalty. Today, when you see that a certain amount of money in the form of a fictitious loan has been paid by the "Multicom Group" company "Ultradraj renter", it may not mean much to you and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But behind the company "Ultradraj rentakar" is hiding the name Saša Bjelic, which is certainly telling you much more, which is the man who is now employed by the "Multicom Group", who was the city manager at the time of the rule of Dragan Djilas, accused of abuse during the reconstruction of the Bulevar King Alexander, and today we have received information that there has been a confirmed indictment against Sasa Bjelic and others in the case of Bulevar King Alexander. It is also symptomatic that fictitious loans also went to the expense of Ljuban Pantic, a senior official of the Freedom and Justice Party, worth 100,000 euros. It is also strange that the company directly "Digital News" received a loan from the "Multicom Group" amounting to 4.5 million dinars, which is that portal, "directly", i.e. the company owns the portal "directly" where an unscrupulous campaign is being conducted against all SNS representatives, Aleksandr Vukic and his family. What's more symptomatic is that Mr. Dejan Bulatovic, who is also a close associate of Dragan Djilas, was the gentleman who once called on everyone to find his advocacy after the overthrow of this authority, to receive 50,000 euros from the "Multicom Group" and it is obvious that you will get a wish for a forwarding forwarder when Gilas pays you over 50,000 euros. When we talk about justice, I really want to know when will the prosecution be involved, when will the Money Prevention Authority be involved, when will the Tax Administration be activated, to find out that Dragan Gilas through the "Multicom Group" has paid so much money to companies close to himself without any euro of these loans being paid back? It is obvious that Dragan Gilas today is a "white bear", for which neither the media nor the competent judicial authorities are interested. When I talk about the media, it's very clear to me because today he owns both his televisions and his portals and his websites, and it doesn't worry me, because it shows that he's doing the best in the media, as he did by 2012, when he gained through advertising and through certain seconds, by reselling a second on RTS, he acquired an enormous wealth. It is also obvious that the 2009 judicial reform left the consequences 10 years later and that certain judges and prosecutors are not immune to yellow-blue color, which are the colors of the former Democratic Party, which in certain cases provided them with an advance. I really hope, once again, I appeal to all the competent prosecutors that they will be involved and we will examine all these things concerning the "Multicom Group" and other people who were close to the then mayor Dragan Gilas and we will see in which way the fictitious loans are paid, because if you pay the fictitious loans, the lender, if he has violated certain provisions of the Law on Payments, then he must pay the deduction tax, and if he is the borrower, in this case Sasa Bijelic, directly and other companies, and also to point out certain PR agencies and certain actors, if they have received such fictitious loans, they must clearly define whether it is a payment, whether it is a gift both at the end of the business year and that they pay the tax. So I appeal once again to include all the competent authorities to finally get the result of all these fictitious loans, which I say again, no euro has been recovered from those to whom these loans were sent. I'd also like to regret this debate, I'd like to present to the representatives of the VSS some of my views. In this proposal that you have sent to the National Assembly, I would like to challenge several candidates who are first elected to judge. These are: Jelena Srdanovic, prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, Svetlana Jovic, judge's assistant at the General Court in Pozarevac, Mina Borata Ristic, judicial assistant at the Criminal Court in Belgrade, Milan Jovnas, judge's assistant to the Criminal Court in Zajecar, as well as Natasa Rubežic, judicial assistant at the Criminal Court. I'd like to challenge those candidates you sent to the National Assembly because the candidates do not meet the basic security criteria. I would really ask, that is, this is not the first time that we have challenged certain candidates, we have done so in some previous sessions, but I would also ask the VSS to keep an eye on it, but don't take this as any form of pressure, but when you define certain proposals on the choice of judges who are elected for the first time, to see in a more detailed way who are candidates, what qualities they have, and to refer them to the National Assembly for a decision. In any case, I hope that my colleagues in the voting day will support the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office and that they will also decide on these judges that I have challenged during today's presentation. I also want to say that I will vote for this motion for a decision with the hope that the judicial system will remain independent, objective and impartial, unlike the time when the judiciary was a tool for the failed policy of the Democratic Party and its tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9691	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS, MP Tom Phil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9692	Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the people, I am stressing the people, because among us MPs, no one has come forward with an objection to the proposal for today's election of judges, in the voting day we will vote for these candidates who are not disputed by an esteemed colleague, and we will vote in accordance with the coalition agreement, as proposed by the SNS. Now I'm going to move on to what I want to talk about. Aristotle, the great Greek philosopher, was the tutor of Alexander the Great, as you will. When Alexander the Great grew up to go to war, Aristotle gave him a sword. Alexander received the sword, he read Aristotle's message, and it will pass. It's clear what he was going to say up and down. This is the motto of my address to this National Assembly and to the citizens of Serbia - and it will pass. As far as the proposed candidates are concerned, we have no objections. The only thing that's important to me, and they're missing, is how long they've studied and what's their average grade? This remark is based on what we learned in law school, it was when none of you were even born at that time, but we were studying at law school, because the professors used to say, "God in heaven, court on earth," realizing and wanting the elite of law school to go to justice. It's not like that, unfortunately. It's been a long time. Such reforms have been carried out in due time, according to the allegations in the judiciary that have caused disastrous consequences for the judiciary, and the reputation of the judiciary has never been lower today. Believe me, I've defended times of communism, but I've never seen this before. Then how can I believe it? How can I believe that 11 people who propose these amendments will choose better than us 250 who will be from more parties? This House won't last forever until April. The opposition will come, and then we'll talk, but mistakes, remember what's terrible, mistakes last until retirement. Those 11 people, if they're wrong, we have to put up with 40 years of bad judge, immoral and stupid if you want to, because the solution mentioned in the constitutional amendments is that in the future, the High Council of Justice will be elected by judges from the first election, and that's 11 people, or alternative 10 plus the President of the Supreme Court, that's 10, and that's, I mean, wrong, but it doesn't matter. My idea was that the first choice of judges would continue to be in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and that further elections and improvements would be a matter of justice and I wasn't alone in that idea. Believe me, there are many people who think as much as I do in fear of error, of the mistake these 11 people will make, of which five by one will be chosen. The first choice would be carried out on a procedure that would be changed and in which legal elites, the smartest and best students, the best trainees, are now called judicial assistants, who would be adequately paid, because you have to understand the judiciary is the basis of legal order and the guardian of the rule of law. No justice, no state, no rule of law. It's a disaster if it's not done, and we let some people do it. I keep saying and saying to the end, it's not as far off as luck, and now I'm saying that such significant people have to choose a congregation that represents a people, so the people have chosen us free and not free, however we want, the elections, someone has not participated, and they will all participate one day and they will choose, and the Assembly represents a people. We've been chosen by the people. We answer to the people, not 11 people, of whom five were chosen from the National Assembly, but by two-thirds of the majority, and the question is who will and how they will be combined. Remember that judgments are passed on behalf of the people, and I wonder, in the name of which people, if the judges will choose 11 people who do not respond to anyone alive or to the people for their decisions, unlike the MPs who have been chosen by the people and who answer to the people, because they will not vote us next time if we choose people without value. It says in the Constitution that we must choose in the Parliament decent people, these 11 will choose these five members to be worthy of choice. Do we choose unworthy people? That's why we answer to the people not to choose the fucker, but we have to choose the people who are worth it, and every choice we have is behind it. I'm responsible for every single majority I participate in. This Assembly will be remembered not by the Law on Gender Equality, against whom I am of course, but it will be by amendment of the Constitution and let us do it right. The verdict is made on behalf of the people. I wonder, in the name of what people, if the judges choose 11 people? Unlike the MPs elected by the people, in the proposal for Amendment 1 relating to Article 4. The constitution introduces the division of power, as Monteskje wrote – to legislative, executive and judicial authority. That's what it's always been. Always three. It now says that the relationship of three branches of government is based on mutual verification and balance, in order to conclude in the next sentence – the judicial authority is independent. What's that supposed to mean? How these three forms of government are based on mutual verification and balance, in which way, how, and then – the judicial authority is independent. So we're addicted and this second one and the government is and should be dependent on the Assembly, but how are we doing this together and trusting and having each other's balance and checking? How? It is not known how this affects it; it is mutually verifiable and balanced; then, behind the next sentence, the judicial authority is independent. So this doesn't mean anything. It's a story like it says about dignity, etc. They're stories to tell. It stands in the Constitution that it would be... These amendments will obviously pass, as Aristotle said, that applies to us, because we will pass, and we are not eternal. Anyone who thinks they'll be in power most of the time is mistaken. Please, there is also a trinity in the Trinity, and there is a trinity in the church, and they speak to you the service of God in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. There is also in power – legislative, executive and judicial. There is, however, in the judiciary. There are prosecutors in the judiciary, there are judges, but there are lawyers. At the risk that I'll resent someone when we talk about law enforcement because I'm a MP after all, and after a lawyer, I still have to say that - lawyers are not mentioned in these amendments, and there's an unforgivable part of the judiciary. Remember that in the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary until these amendments, they were also representatives of the attorneys. Now they're gone. In communism, they thought the court could do without a lawyer, because they're the smartest, so they didn't make it. So they tried the democratic system, so they even encouraged me because I'm Ivica Dacic's advisor that I should be on the sidelines against the lawyers, but I didn't want to. The communists thought the court could do it without a lawyer, but the communists realized it couldn't, and that's why the lawyer was independent, and now she should be independent. In the amendment 13 relating to Article 151 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the The constitution also says what is done if five members of the Supreme Council fail to elect. At that time, a commission consisting of the president of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Public Prosecutor and the Protector of the Citizens is elected and voted most of the votes. Again, there are no lawyers who are part of the judiciary, part of that trinity. Is it a problem that instead of the Guardian of Citizens who had nothing to do with the judiciary, let him be, if it means anything to someone, to be in place or with a representative, or the President of the Bar of Lawyers to be a member of that commission, to hear the voice of the lawyer. But that's gonna go away, too, like a lawyer isn't an integral part of the judiciary. I think the way to decide in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, eight votes, should not be solved by constitutional matter, so that is my opinion, but by law, because if difficulties are observed, this High Council of the Judiciary can also be blocked, and that is difficult to change then in the Constitution, so it's better to be legal, it's easier to adapt. I am personally against an alternative on page 5, where the role of the Supreme Court, elected by the President of the Supreme Court, is. Well, he can't be in the High Council of the Judiciary President of the Supreme Court and he chooses five members himself if he gets stuck in the Assembly. It's a duality that's impossible for justice. I hope I gave you six minutes, so you don't have to listen to me. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9693	I thank my colleague. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Đorđe Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9694	I thank the chairman. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't think that you or the previous speaker did it, but what is happening today in the area of northern Kosovo Mitrovica is certainly a violation of the dignity and of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because each of us has signed, each of us 250 has signed the same oath that says we will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and what is happening today in the space of Kosovo and Metohija is slightly broken by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I think we should call about that. In northern Mitrovica, a Kosovo police action is under way that uses a bomb and tear gas shock and several hundred citizens have blocked more streets and alert sirens are heard. Apparently, the action to prevent the smuggling of goods, and members of ROSU arrived in North Mitrovica and Zvecan. One Serbian, according to the latest information, was injured today during the violent entry of the ROSU unit in Kosovo Mitrovica. According to unofficial information, for the time being, an unknown man was shot in the back, and a bullet came out on his chest. He was urgently admitted to the hospital and his condition is alarming. There's a raffali in town, and it's a dramatic situation. The team, of course, immediately called Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, demanding that such a crime be urgently addressed by the international community of NATO and KFOR, which we fully agree and call on as a parliamentary group, and I hope other parliamentary groups will do the same, call on the international organisation and the EU to stop double standards and double arches and stop Kurti. President Vukic, as a true statesman, urgently headed to Rask to meet with Serbs in the Kosovo and Metohija area, which we fully support and give absolute support. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, as I said, reacted this morning after the action, called the police and called for a response. This kind of behavior, definitely, has gone too far and for every conviction. We Socialists, the PG of the Socialist Party of Serbia condemn this violence that happens daily to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, it is inadmissible and does not lead to a solution to the problem. This is a cause of unrest, I could say with certainty and pre-war conditions. How long will the International Community keep quiet? I ask is it not a pathological fear of Serbia's reputation or their need to force better results in local elections or perhaps fear of a conference of non-classified people where Serbia has gathered more than 105 states and international organisations? Do they think they can reach their goals by force like this? I just wanted to do this as an appeal, because I think it is an obligation for us as representatives of the citizens who live in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9695	I thank my colleague Milicevic. We're moving on to the speaker list. The word has a national emissary, Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9696	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear representatives of the VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a motion to elect judges who for the first time are elected to judge office, 17 of them. We have received professional biographies of candidates although probably MPs who come from the place where the candidates themselves are elected, better and know the candidates, we are left with some confidence, with what the VSS and professional biographies suggest, we expect and hope that the judges who first enter this very important and responsible function, will bear in mind that they actually judge someone or make a verdict for or against the request of a certain citizen, is a very important and responsible function and much more to say than a classical job. What I would like to do is take the opportunity and tell the future judges who are elected from this place to take care of how and how justice and justice are exercised, because the constitutional division of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia to the legislative, executive and judicial authority, where the judiciary is defined as independent or independent of any influence is the core of an effective and just judiciary, if we want to end it, because it is precisely the citizens who are directly in a situation to judge them in one way or another. If the judge tries and does his best to be independent, not to let influences affect it, he will certainly succeed in his mission. Sometimes it can be a product to say, a negligible human error, it can be a product of reckless decision, but I'm sure it won't happen so often unless someone on the side who shouldn't. As unfortunately, we hear very often that in areas that are less developed, which we can say that in some ways on the margins of sometimes and self-interest, classical abuses of judicial function are actually taking place by people who have clearly succumbed to the pressures of different criminal groups. We've been taking examples from the Senate very often. Today we have heard a lot about the Tutin judiciary and should actually react to these statements, because trust in the judiciary is lost when judges succumb to corruption, succumbing to actions that should not happen. In this light and the messages to the newly elected judges that they perform this function honestly and honestly in the interests of the exercise of rights, justice and in the interests of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9697	Thank you. The word has a folk MP and SDPS representative Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9698	Thank you, Chairman. The High Judicial Council has proposed candidates who should be elected for the first time as judges in the basic courts in Novi Sad, Senta, Loznica, Majdanpek, Surdulic, infringing in Backo Palanca, Belgrade, Zajecar, Kraljev, Pancheva and in the Kragujevac Business Court. For us MPs, this should be a formal matter, because the main role belongs to the VSS that separates candidates based on their expertise, skills, qualifications and dignity for a permanent judicial function. The choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial functions is important given that the highest number of criminal cases is in the basic courts. The presidents of the courts are those who, by quality analysis, bring a clear judgment on what candidates are the best and who should be selected from the list. The choice of judges should not be a political issue, but a matter of national importance. The role of the judge is to apply the laws unequivocally, clearly, unselectively, equally for all. This creates strong institutions, and strong institutions make a strong state. The legislative framework is such as to guarantee the independence of judges. It is the legislative framework that guarantees the independence of judges. The first member of the Law on Judges states that the judge is independent in the conduct and decision-making, that the judge judges and judges based on the Constitution, the laws and other acts and the general rules of international law. The judge is obliged, on every occasion, to maintain his trust and his independence and impartiality, to conduct judicial proceedings on his conscience, respecting the procedural rights of the parties and ensuring a fair trial. Based on its expertise, knowledge, preparation, efficiency, integrity, the judge will give life to the law and thus highlight its main purpose. Judges must also respect the ethical code that brings the High Council to the judiciary. According to the code, both state authorities and officials are obliged to maintain trust in the independence and impartiality of judges and courts by their actions and behaviour. It is very important to always talk about protecting public order and morals and protecting the privacy of participants in the process. Whenever it comes to justice on the agenda of the session, I also point out that the position of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is that sensationalism has no justification and that it is important to prevent leaks of information concerning certain court proceedings. The verdict of the public without a court ruling causes great damage to the persons in the proceedings. Commenting on court proceedings in a tabloid way must not be a manners. A very significant step taken to improve the judiciary is certainly an initiative to change the Constitution in the work of the judiciary. The final text of the Constitution will be established after the opinion of the Venice Commission arrives, but according to the assessment of the Working Group, the proposed solutions will surely lead to positive changes. One democratically arranged society does not mean freedom that is absolute, because it is limited by the obligations and responsibilities of each individual. That would also constitute the essence of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9699	Thank you. Next on the list is National Assembly Vice-President Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9700	I thank you, Your Honor. Honored representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, before I start on today's topic, I want to join in front of the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group an appeal from the SPS and call on the international community and KFOR and NATO to respond urgently to the alarming situation that is happening in northern Kosovo Mitrovica and to try to restrain Kurti. If this is just some political marketing ahead of the 17 October elections, it's not naive at all, because, as we could hear and see from the press, unfortunately, there are also injured. So I believe that the state summit of the Republic of Serbia will respond in a democratic and peaceful manner to all the provocations that are happening in our southern province. As far as today's agenda and the election of judges first elected on duty, it is important for every country seeking democracy to first have a good and efficient judicial system from which good indicators for other pillars of the rule of law arise. Our country's trying to do that right now. The judicial authority is independent and there must be no abuse, because the only interest of this country is equality and equality for all citizens. As for the proposed candidates, we got their biographies. Some are very good, professional and rich biographies. We heard there was a dispute from a fellow SNS officer. In the day of the vote, we will declare ourselves to the candidates who have not received the challenge. On the way to the EU, whose basic values include the rule of law and respect for human rights, Serbia has regulated this area through Chapter 23 and the general conclusion of the European Commission is that the judicial system has made certain shifts and levels of preparedness regarding the rule of law. In the past ten years, Serbia has passed all the preliminary reforms in terms of the judiciary, and all in order for the new organisation of the courts to present the full burden of reform, and as a ultimate goal, the development of justice in our country is visible. I also want to commend the work of the High Council of the judiciary, which is of crucial importance for Serbia to be an effective and functional rule of law. That is why the High Council of the judiciary and elects and resolves and selects candidates through a pragmatic concept and proposes them to the National Assembly, the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and a whole series of specific competences. This is a very responsible job and their role is immeasurable, in favour of building a rule of law like Serbia today. We can say that Serbia may also be a leader in the region when it comes to judicial independence, because today in our country, the judge enjoys full freedom in making decisions. Only a few years ago, we had a situation from December 2009, when literally in two days without a job, almost 1,000 judges and prosecutors were left without a legal procedure, explanations and a right to appeal, and the main criteria for selecting judges was who the parties were and unfortunately led to the division itself among the judges. Major damage has been done to our society, the re-election cost the state more than 40m euros, many citizens have extended too many too long disputes, some have thrown faith in an independent judiciary. We have come from such a situation that we can talk in a democratic way in the congregation today about the faults and virtues of our judicial system. As I have already mentioned the length of the court proceedings, the implementation of the National Programme for the reduction of the number of residual cases is currently supervised by the Supreme Cassation Court and has a positive impact on the efficiency of the courts with regard to the reduction of the number of old executive cases and the definitions of the old cases now include cases older than three years. It's really absurd that we have court proceedings that last for decades, that someone with an inheritance inherits even litigation. In the last few years, we have indications that the average length of court disputes is decreasing and that's good, because that's how the reputation of the judiciary and the trust of the citizens in the judge and the justice system itself returns. Serbia, by the way, has clearly defined objectives concerning the fight against organised crime, and co-operation with EVROJAST is in addition. We in the Assembly last year adopted this agreement and thus further strengthened the capacity in this fight. Special courts dealing with this topic of organised crime in Novi Sad, Belgrade, King and Nis have also been opened. Since I come from the Kings, I would like to commend that in 2017 the building of the basic court in the King was reconstructed. Who had the opportunity to be in the King or perhaps have a trial in the King knows what that building looked like, especially after the 2010 earthquake. The EU strategy to support Serbia in the reform of the rule of law is in line with the National Strategy for Justice Reform adopted in 2013 and the strategy includes the need for infrastructure investment in the courts and prosecutors' buildings, in order to address the problem of the lack of courts and prosecutors' cabinets, thanks to which each judge will have more time for trial, have time for hearings, or hearings will be shortened and investigative proceedings will be significantly reduced. Most of Serbia's judicial and prosecutorial facilities are between 20 and 30 years old and in the past 20 and more years their maintenance has been minimal and, as I said, the King's General Court suffered significant damage during the earthquake in November 2010 and has now been expanded by reconstruction and has been allowed to maintain a larger number of trials. Serbia is creating a stable social climate because we are pursuing European standards and when it comes to judicial independence. In addition, the whole procedure for amending the Constitution and the way judges and public prosecutors will be elected in the future. These proposals and changes to the Constitution, whether it's a choice of future judges or not, you could hear from my previous speaker, Tom File, but in front of us, as I said, constitutional changes, the writing of constitutional amendments and their final assessment will be given by the Venice Commission. It's exactly the path that changes the Constitution, not as in 2006, when we had the situation that the constitution was first changed, the constitutional amendment was adopted, and only then was the assessment of the Venice Commission asked for. Unique Serbia supports every effort by this government to make Serbia a country of equal opportunities for all, where respect for the rule of law is the basis for the functioning of all segments of society. In the voting day, we will declare the proposed candidates who are not challenged by other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9701	I thank the esteemed vice president of the National Assembly. Next on the list is Dubravka King, in front of the SPS Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9702	Dear Vice President, good afternoon, everyone. Today it is on the agenda, as colleagues have already said, the choice of judges in a number of basic misdemeanors and one economic court in Serbia. However, before I begin my presentation on the topic of the agenda, I simply cannot help but look back at the largest diplomatic event in the world, which took place in our country in our Serbia in the previous days, and of course I am thinking about the summit of the Unclassified Movements, which I think is really a spectacle in international diplomacy. I am proud that the dinner ceremony was held right here in the National Assembly and that the president of the National Assembly was host. I think as an SPS MP, led by Ivica Dacic, I am proud to talk about the Movement of Unclassified, not only because of the role he played in organising the entire event, but also because as foreign minister and personally visited most of those countries, which kept in touch with them and one part on the prism of the association managed to act as 19 countries withdrawing recognition so-called. Kosovo. That is why I believe that in history he will remain remembered as the most successful foreign minister and it is a difficult task for all those who are now and who in the future will be able to overcome such results. Generally, the SPS policy is to keep the contacts that have been left to us. So, Serbia as a co-excessor of the former Yugoslavia, as inherited by its obligations, certainly has the right to use all the legacy of the former state, including contacts with non-classified countries, which, of course, should be done. We preserve our heritage, inherit those good things, and on this basis we create the future and advocate the building of a socially just society that will make the same people. And of course, in the construction of such a society, judges and the entire judiciary play a significant role. This introduction, which made the non-classified, is not random at all, because I believe that judges, like the countries that made the Group of Unclassified, should be exactly like that, that they do not stand on either side, either side of the East or the West, but should only be on the side of the law. Neither on the part of the prosecutor nor the defendant, nor the accused, nor the damaged, nor the trustee, nor the debtor, nor the authorities, nor the opposition, but only on the side of the law, that they may not be subjected to any pressure. I believe that one true judge must neither fear nor feel compassion. I know it's easy for me from this place right now, but that's the weight of a subpoena. I think it's much harder than being an MP, because we here make laws abstractally, generally managed by the best interests of our country, but the concrete application of these laws, on specific cases, which specifically determines the fate of people, is on the judges. We here in the National Assembly cannot, like judges who apply the right, feel tears damaged or guilty. That is why I believe that the most difficult and sensitive role is given to courts in this distribution of state authorities. I've already said it once, but I'm going to pay my respects to all the judges this time. My basic messages to the candidates who will be elected are that, after entering the judicial office, they are not judged by their best knowledge, but by the knowledge that is best possible, since if constitutional changes are carried out, this trial period will be abolished, i.e. This first choice for three years, the function will already be permanent from the election itself. I tell them that this continuity of the judge's office does not relax them, but rather commits them to a constant improvement and a permanent improvement in their work. Of course, the message is that during their work, they keep the dignity of all parties that appear before the court at any time, because I think the citizens of Serbia deserve it. The judiciary is a mirror of the rule of law and citizens most often, through the work of the courts, perceiving the state's attitude towards them, and therefore the relation of judges to the parties that appear before the court must be correct and motivated only and solely by consistent application of the law. And of course, there must be further work to keep the trust that citizens have in the judiciary. A problem that hasn't been new for a long time is a very inconsistencies and contradictory case-law that I think is causing confusion among citizens, because I don't know how you common citizens who are lay people don't have legal knowledge, how can they understand the completely different court decisions that are made on identical claims, even in the first degree? What I'm saying is that, let's say, in these loan-expensive disputes, citizens file identical charges on requests and they get different decisions, even if it's in the first and only in the first degree, which I don't think is right. Therefore, I believe that further harmonisation of the case law should be done, whether through a more active role of the Supreme Cassation Court or through amendments to the rules, in the sense that the importance of the Supreme Cassation Court's task to comply with the case law is not sufficiently recognised through our regulations. I am sorry that my position in the text of the constitutional amendments has not found a provision on judicial practice as an additional source of law, although I do agree that in our legal system it would be a curricula that would require further consideration, but I think that in the long run it would be useful for our judiciary. I mentioned these costs of processing credits that are still such the most intense disputes, but also the most problematic, even from the point of view of court overload. We know that some courts are completely blocked, i.e. to a large extent, they have difficulty in functioning, which is further reflected in the trial within a reasonable period of time, i.e. the frequent excess of that time limit that would be considered reasonable. I know that the Supreme Cassation Court has taken a stand, of course I respect that attitude, but I don't know if it's substantive, and that's from the point of view of citizens' interests. For example, I have seen a solution to this problem in the adoption of a law that would prescribe bank obligations to citizens who would directly address the payments to the principal of these costs paid, that their interest is forgiven, that is not a professional term, that the interest on that amount should be written off, and that is a procedural assumption of filing the suit. Therefore, to resolve this on the relation of banks and clients, to limit the amount only to the principal, i.e. the amount paid by the client or to include that amount in the payment of other debts that the citizens have to the bank and to exclude at all the need to conduct court proceedings on that basis. This solution, for example, would not like lawyers again, because it would then exclude them as intermediaries between a client and a bank, or they, through the initiation of court proceedings, make a certain profit, but I think that if a solution were like this, they would not have an alibi in the interests of the citizens. I suggest to my colleagues, it seems to me that most of them have heard me, to consider making one such solution. I think it would also be useful for citizens, while banks would not be burdensome, I have even heard that some banks have already offered to end court disputes and that the amount is worth it. In any case, the future judges of the SPS expect them to show a higher level of awareness in the work, because, as I said, it is very important for citizens that trials take place within a reasonable time and that the trial is effective. I am fully aware that not everything is a responsibility only to judges, that it should certainly modernise the trial process itself, improve civil-processing legislation that is being done, that it is also necessary to fill the free court seats that are being done again. This is who knows which choice judges. I am sure that this trend towards the reception of new judges will continue, which will all reflect the greater efficiency of the work of the courts, but judges themselves should show one efficiency in the work. Of course, we expect the judges to apply the laws consistently, thus ensuring legal certainty, which is for one serious state and how important, along with all other aspects of which it is necessary for citizens to feel secure. The last few days have been a very current topic and this energy security. Why don't I comment, i.e. I do not highlight or commend everything our country has done on this matter and, of course, our director, Mr. Dusan Bajatovic, what has been done on the matter of keeping the price of gas for households, on the Balkan course, and on negotiations on a new agreement and negotiations on a new price that will again be low. These are really important things, as it is important that our country is energy independent, but it should also be distinguished by an independent judiciary. In this context, as I have already mentioned, constitutional changes aimed at improving the independence of the judiciary, Mr. Phila mentioned these issues, for example, he is, as we have seen, a fierce opponent of the choice of judges being removed from the National Assembly, which is certainly theoretically justified. But if we're looking at judges like this realistically and practically, because when you look at these biographies, I don't really know these candidates, or I've been asking questions about them, here's a candidate number one, I can only calculate that when she's 23 years old, so she's been in law school in Novi Sad, she's passed a judicial exam in two years and four months. So these are during education results that are good. We don't know the average grade. Work experience is also correct. She has a recommendation from the D.A. She worked in. Well, none of it's a guarantee, but it's her choice, and it seems to me that candidate number one has been challenged, so none of this is a guarantee, it's all circumstantial. We don't know the candidates. No mechanism was found that we could personally get to know them, interview them. All we know about their work is that they passed a trial with the highest score. We are left to believe in the recommendation that the candidates received from their colleagues. There, only through the data that we would get from some of the other state authorities that carry out the security changes. I certainly don't think that's enough data to get the MP to decide whether to vote or not. Some of the indications here are missing, as Mr. Phila said, the average score is missing. This length of study we can count on ourselves, its efficiency in work, the quality of decisions. Again, we draw conclusions from the fact that they were recommended by colleagues and courts in which they worked. Because of all this, I think it is better to move the election from the National Assembly to the High Council of the judiciary, because I think it is better for colleagues to choose colleagues in the sense that they can move more directly and with more facts to evaluate their work. Somehow, I trust that choice will be correct. In any case, whoever chooses judges is expected to play an equal role in building a rule of law and building an effective mechanism to correct social injustices, and this mechanism is an effective judiciary. I already said once, with a vaccine against the Corona, an effective judiciary against illegal, criminal, corrupt acts. I want a lot of success in the work for all the candidates chosen, and I thank my colleagues for their careful listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9703	Thank you, dear colleague. Next on the list, representative of the Legislative Club Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, Dr Uglješa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9704	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, fellow MPs, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are witnessing terrible events in northern Kosovo and Metohija. Happy Sofronijević, from Zvečan he is wounded with his back, his doctors are fighting for his life, God forbid he survives and God forbid these events happen again. Republika Srpska President Aleksandra Vukic is heading to Raska where he will meet with representatives of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. It is not by chance that what is now going on before the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, which should pass in one peaceful and democratic atmosphere, we have the savagery and terrorist activities of the ROSU unit and all their associates that are now going on in northern Mitrovica. Our prime minister, Ana Brnabic, reacted to a worldwide public appeal that the international community of NATO and KFOR urgently respond to the protection of the Serb population and of all other citizens in northern Cosmeta, to react and to prevent further savagery, further attempts at murder and shooting by members of ROSU. It is clear that there is one of the key roles of Albin Kurti and his fellow Members, but now it is time to show international institutions with their quick and urgent reaction. Serbia reacted quickly, the president headed for Raska, towards the land's security zone, the prime minister reacted. We had the opportunity to hear also from the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr. Peter Petkovic, and we hope that these events will no longer happen and will now understand the world community when it talks to Belgrade, when it talks to Serbia, when it talks to President Aleksandr Vukic who it is for peace policy and who it is for terrorism. We spend all this time, not these days, not these weeks, months and years sending a message of peace and stability both in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija, and in the entire Balkans, throughout Southeast Europe. Our President Aleksandar Vukic, along with his associates, has launched an entire diplomatic offensive, a diplomatic offensive to the integration of peoples and states, an offensive that leads to even greater peace and stability. Then around 9:00 today, we had a chance to see and hear what happened. Should another Serb in Kosovo be musketly wounded from behind to make the international community react? It is now an opportunity for the international community, namely NATO and KFOR to take out their forces and prevent ROSU members from doing this. Why? Who's to blame Srecko Sofronijević? Which is a Serb. What's from Zvezdan. Which is located in northern Mitrovica. Which has an opinion. The only reason he's guilty is because he's a Serb. Believe me, we from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, we are slightly shocked by what is happening in northern Kosovo, because it is now clear who wants chaos and who wants peace. Albin Kurti and his comrades and his mentors want chaos, and we, led by President Vukic, want peace. That is why we also support this appeal by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and what the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Petar Petkovic and this great move and any reaction by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said. As far as we are for peace policy and as far as we're concerned, it shows it to everyone, and here it is, this now that we've had the Summit of the unclassified. So, Serbia is the one, Belgrade is gathering from both the west and the east, and Western forces and the eastern forces and non-classified. So we have shown that as a state we are so mature that we have the best diplomacy in Serbia's newer modern history, which Alexander Vukic is doing great. We've given our hand to everyone, and that's why it's coming back to these events, because Happy Sofronijević deserves to be repeated today several times, and I hope that doctors will do everything they can and that God will help him and that he will survive. We must always remind ourselves of what we are and what those who are against us are for. Will the portals of Dragan Djilas, Dragan Šolak, now begin to criticise and challenge both President Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and KIM Office Director Petar Petkovic for these activities, and actions, spoken in defence of the Serb people at KIM? Will these media gathered around the opposition again, Dragan Gilas, Jeremic and Solak, start attacking us, that we are nationalists, that we do not want peace? Are they gonna start lying again? I can. But today, the people understand on the basis of all of this, who is for peace policy, and who are we asking for help from? Therefore, I hope that NATO and KFOR will react. It's about time, and the election's still going to KIM. To return to the judge's election, to the decision to elect judges who are first elected to the judge's office. We got an explanation and a biography here. I would like on behalf of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, to challenge two other candidates, it is Ms. Nina Atanacković Sulomar, the beneficiary of the initial training at the Judicial Academy, who is a candidate for judicial office in the basic court of Senta, and I would like to challenge candidate Milan Petrovic, the beneficiary of the initial training at the Judicial Academy, which is a proposal to choose for the first time on a judicial post in the Criminal Court in Baška Palanca. The reason for the dispute and Nina Atanakovic Sulomar and Milan Petrovic is the same reason why my dear colleague Dejan Kesar challenged the proposal of these other candidates, and I suggest we vote on them in particular. The reasons are the same, as those reasons Mr. Kesar cited for those candidates, that I do not list again names, which are also disputed. We of the SNS, we advocate a strong judiciary, and we have shown this, as we have had the opportunity to see how much we stand for peace and stability, for a strong economy, for a strong health system, for the help of everyone in the region, and for those who were our opponents, enemies, we do not care, we help everyone. We also advocate strong state institutions in the Republic of Serbia, we advocate a strong judicial system, and for justice in Serbia, but also for fighting the mafia. We had the opportunity to see a few days ago and address the governor of the NBS, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, who clearly reminded some of the events, i.e. to the non-reaction of certain state institutions when it comes to the loans of Dragan Gilas. I join that appeal of hers, and I believe that every loan of Dragan Gilas should be checked, and that all institutions should respond there. If we all account for the law and the people, why not Dragan Gilas? So it's time we finally knew everything. But it is also time for state institutions, which have been slightly put to sleep, to wake up, and to react, both to the country's institutions and similar institutions abroad. Why? If we're talking about the choice of judges here, if we're talking about respect for justice and justice, if we're talking about fighting the mafia, one of the key people in that fight is you judges. But the judge must, in addition, judge according to the Constitution, have brilliant biography, etc., to be chosen, he should be brave, he should be honest, he should be independent. How much SNS has been fighting for the independence of the judiciary, we have shown this over the past nine years, because I will remind you again, and as my colleague, Dejan Kesar, as judges and presidents of the courts, chose on the DS municipal committees by 2012. As the judiciary was destroyed in 2009 and 2010. How much needed for the new government in 2012 to recover and give one support for normal judicial reform and to save what can be saved. You, from the High Council of the Judiciary, are an excellent craftsman, who gave you the hand to do your job independently, and who fired your colleagues, who threatened to arrest, fired, and wouldn't allow them to judge. Then we had a situation where the judge, on the same appeal's request, made one verdict, the other judge a completely different verdict, and the third one puts it off indefinitely. One chaos in the judiciary. But it's not that chaos to everyone that he didn't answer, he gossiped about the chaos in the judiciary to those who took from the state and the citizens. He responded to Dragan Gilas, he responded to Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic. He responded to those who did not fight for neither state nor national interests, who did not fight for our people in KIM, but fought for their pockets to be fuller, and therefore they needed a broken judiciary. Now, we from the SNS and our coalition partners are pushing for a strong judiciary, and that is why we advocate that all investigations in the fight against the mafia and this corruption affair of Dragan Gilas and others are being investigated to the end, because we are for justice, because we are for the respect of rights, both in Serbia and in the region, and because we are from the SNS, and we who love to be our country Serbia as strong as possible, led by President Alexander Vukic, we want every resident of the Republic of Serbia, who lived in Belgrade, in the northern Serbian province of Vojvodina, in the southern Serbian province of KIM, central and western Serbia, to feel safe and secure, that all Serbian citizens feel safe and safe and safe and our citizens in northern Mitrovica, that there is no longer a case of Happy Sofronijević, who is innocent today, guilty, guilty of nothing from his back. He was guilty, only because he was a Serb. Therefore, we expect a reaction from the competent institutions, we expect a reaction from the international community of NATO and KFOR, and we also expect you judges to work in accordance with the Constitution, work in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, and Serbia is now growing stronger and stronger thanks to the excellent policy led by our President Aleksandar Vucic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9705	I thank the honourable People's Messenger. The next one is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Professor, just for a little while, you have three minutes to pay attention on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9706	I thank the Honorable Chairman. In the election of judges, a very important factor must have, despite the professional competences, honor and honesty of the people who propose to these functions. We have had the opportunity to see, unfortunately, that in all cases it is not, and therefore the MPs have these fences when they say they do not have enough insight into everything that is the judge, so that they can bear responsibility for their appointments, so we have all those cases that you heard today from the academics Zukorlic, about Tutin, or what was happening in Sjenica that the suspect with a stick of judges from the basic court in Sjenica, still judges people and there we do not have an "x" of honesty and honor. We also didn't have it in previous cases when it was the same one that plowed the state for a billion and slightly more dinars, Đuro Obradovic traded with local judges in Sjenica, taking away from the workers "Pik Pester" what they had earned for decades and what they should have left behind for generations to come. It is therefore very important that all of this is considered when the judges are called and, of course, all those who abuse the honorable and honorable position of judges and who throw dark shadows at all those who have been building their own name for decades, responsible judges, are removed from the judiciary system, that those who are prone to receive bribes, corruption, etc. They're no longer an integral part of the judiciary or the D.A.'s office. It is the only way to restore citizens' confidence in these very important pillars of state and society. When I mentioned Sjenica and "PIK Pešter" and Djuru Obradovic against whom large proceedings are being conducted before the authorities for what he did to "BD Agro", with then employees of the Ministry of Industry from 2006 to 2008, I have an obligation to read to you the message of one of the workers "PIK Pester" which he also bought during that period and which he destroyed. Workers of PIC Cave AD were to be reconciled through court with personal incomes, taxes and contributions, severances, the sale of land in the village of Krstac, but the sprawl of the judge, Katastra, the local politicians of the SDA, failed to do so. Of course, from 2006 to today, Mr. Obradovic has managed to abuse all the things that he has abused and many corrupt people who together with him, over 40m euros have been eaten by PIK Pešter and workers of this economic combination, such as "BD Agro" Dobanovci, "Inks" from Nova Varoshi, Novi Becej, etc. So it's not just about the individual fate of individuals that some judge has contributed to their corrupt and dishonest actions to destroy lives, but it's about the fate of a huge collective who was available and who was the economic branch of the development of one whole end. Just because we didn't have judges at the time who were honorable, honest and honest in doing their job, but who were speculating, for 35 acres, 40 acres or hectare of state land that they received from Obradovic and others, literally allowed this robbery of the people. Today we have social cases from former workers, we have a devastated company that has been destroyed, and that is why it is very important in the election of judges to take care of their honor, their congratulation, and that they do their work consistently and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9707	Thank you, Professor Fehratovic. The word has been given by the honourable MP and representative of the Legislative Club Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9708	Thank you, Your Honor. I didn't want my address today to start this way, but I simply have to call from this place on representatives of the international community, the European Union and KFOR to finally curb the crazy policies of Albin Kurti in Kosovo and Metohija, to stabilise a situation that is more than dramatic and the last moment is necessary to prevent further escalation of the conflict. It's nothing weird. We know very well what their relationship is with both Serbia and the Serbian people and what decisions they made in the past and in the past. What worries is that the latest statements by Albin Kurti and Vljos Osmani, if you want to match some statements from Belgrade, are ahead of all those who make shameful sentences about the Srebrenica genocide and those whom Albin Kurti is someone who has the best possible opinion and a man who is, in their opinion, someone with whom they can make some kind of co-operation. Today on the agenda is the choice of judges who are first elected to office. My opinion is that there is no greater honor, nor can you gain greater legitimacy than when you are elected to a function by the MPs, the National Assembly, or legitimately elected representatives of the people. I would like those judges who are elected to this post to do their job by their best knowledge and skill, to judge by the Constitution and the laws of this country, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we are all servants of the people of Serbia and only they can and should be accounted for. I also want them to be different from some of their colleagues who abuse their functions by dealing with daily political issues and by side with certain politicians and tycoons. Certainly, the ethical code, i.e. principles such as dignity, expertise and responsibility, is an excellent tool to defend judicial functions. Also, it is very important for all of us to begin to distinguish concepts such as convicts or as a person against whom a particular process is being conducted, to distinguish between the concepts of a person who is in prison and who is in custody so that we do not come into a situation of hypocrisy, that we have double arches, as some representatives of some parties and tycoon media, who have been in custody for days and have been sent to jail by Vladimir Djukanovic for an interview, and at the same time suggest that... journalists who do the same interviews with Aleksandra Obradovic, for example. It's up to all of us here to fight and prevent us from ever getting into a situation again to carry out criminal justice reform. Eleven or twelve years ago, when we had brutal political influence in the judiciary, first and foremost the ruling Democratic Party, in which municipal committees were then elected by similar judges, more specifically members of the Democratic Party at the time. The Serbian Progressive Party and we Serbian Progressive Party MPs are extremely proud that Serbia is headed by its President, Aleksandr Vukic, to become independent, sovereign and independent when it comes to making decisions and what we can proudly say today that we are co-operating with both the East and the West. The confirmation of this is also doubtless a summit of non-classified people held in Belgrade these days, as it is probably the largest multilateral event this year that took place in Europe and 105 delegates from around the world who attended the place where the idea of the Unclassified Movement was born 60 years ago, says in that direction because it is not easy to gather so many countries anywhere today, especially in Belgrade. Serbia certainly has its strategic definition. It is a membership in the European Union, but in the meantime we must worry about economic growth and the development of the country and worry about the lives of people, because our policy is primarily a responsible policy, realistic rather than skeptical towards the European Union. It is important for us to know that we are on the European path and we understand that at this point there are some countries that are against the enlargement of the European Union, but we also know that we have done everything that is up to us. We have led the percentage of compliance, our foreign policy with the European Union's foreign policy, we have made progress in the rule of law, and if you will, we have remained constructive and in talks with Pristina, although we see it coming back to us. In the meantime, we remain defined to cultivate good relations with everyone, from Russia, China, to non-classified countries, because that only allows us to progress, greater GDP growth, new roads, hospitals, greater investment in health and education. With this summit of non-classifieds held in Belgrade, we have certainly sent a message that Serbia has raised its international reputation since the arrival of Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party to power. After this event, I am quite certain that no one in the world can say that Serbia has become an important international factor and that our country is not a reliable and recognizable partner to all countries of the world. Criticism will always exist. Spring is near, elections are close. I am convinced that the policy of the Serbian Progressive Party led by Aleksandra Vukic is the only real policy, because we have shown for the nine years that our state and national interests are our first priority, so the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people and we insist on it and we will not give it up. If something has changed in Serbia in nine years, it is that in Serbia alone and only the Serbian people are asked and so will remain in the future. That is why all these continuous attacks that last for months and years both on the president of the state and on the SNS and on his family only strengthen and break out our ranks, because in the upcoming elections, which expect us in the spring of 2022, I am convinced, we will get huge support from Serbia's citizens and win with conviction. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9709	I thank you for your exposure. Next on the list is the honourable MP Ivan Ribać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9710	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, colleagues elaborated on the proposals of judges who were elected for the first time to serve as judges. I read the biography and saw that everyone meets all the criteria and qualities to perform and very important functions, of course, except those who are challenged and I wish them, if elected, a lot of happiness in further work. However, what I would refer to is the lack of basic moral principles in the political sphere of our political opposition, which seeks to return at some time from which we have come out by the will of this ruling majority long ago. Namely, because of their purely personal interests, which is to come to power, of course, by the way, to say that it is quite legitimate, but not in the way they want to do it, our political opponents use their supporters, their voters, who really do not have a large number, but we are as a responsible party and we are obliged to take care of all our citizens, so I mention them. So they use their sympathies to convince them to work exclusively against their own self-interest. Let me explain. They were first called on to resist the decision to declare a state of emergency at the beginning of the pandemic when it was the only way to preserve the lives of citizens, because at the very beginning of the epidemic nothing was known what was going to happen and what would be the best way to fight this monster. Then these same people, specifically the president of the Freedom and Justice Party, Mr. Gilas, attacked the government when it did not impose an emergency. Afterwards, in the peak of the epidemic, they called on their supporters to protest the demolitions in front of the Serbian Parliament, when the lives of our security forces were at stake, and they exposed the risk and the possibility of spreading the infection and endangering lives, among other things, and their followers. Not to mention when the opposition leader spoke on both vaccines and vaccinations and that Serbia is unable to obtain vaccines. When we got the vaccines, they said the vaccines were wrong, and then the first ones ran into the line to vaccinate. I'd like to think of something else. In an interview "Blica" since 13/08, the same gentleman, whom I personally have nothing against, let him be alive and healthy, but against whose policies and views and ways of thinking about leading Serbia with its associates and how I have, he says "Belgrade on Water" in the interview, and the future metro will change the image of the city and Serbia. Immediately after a few years, when he realized that not all politicians were such that in election campaigns they promised towers and cities, and when they came to power they did nothing, but that what they said and promised, and did, as the SNS led by the president, he said in an interview on February 23rd, the same man, that "Belgrade on Water" did not develop a city or Serbia. So the same man in a year gives two completely diametric statements. So, it was nicer while in that space, where Belgrade is now on water, one of the most beautiful parts of the capital in Europe, was the litter of the disease and the litter of the junkies. Then, interesting is his statement about the subway. In addition to the above claims that the metro will change the city and the quality of life in it and its imaginary vision of the subway while it was in power, quite illogical and amateur, like those cells in the project that were 150, 200 meters away, that you could walk in two, three minutes or that the metro goes along King Alexander's boulevard to New Belgrade, which has already been maximum-developed city traffic and other nonsense as stated by experts. Now, therefore, we notice that our citizens who are his party's sympathisers, although we should now take that with a reserve, because we could read these days in the media that all of his alleged sympathisers are well-paid persons by the loans we've seen coming from him and his companies. So we see that he used his sympathisers and his voters in any way to cause an incident with law enforcement, like yesterday in front of the City Assembly, where they protested against the construction of the subway, I guess by promising that when he comes to power, he will allow them to drive a wagon and that it looks like their political programme, since the metro is obviously bad and then, after a potential incident, it shows that this authority is god-awfully violent, autocratic, undemocratic, or I don't know what kind of other, which he was talking about in Montenegrin media when he recently gave the interview, it seems to me, "The News", where about his own country, its people and its legally elected authorities have dried the trees and stones. In the printed media that they control, which I won't mention my name because I don't want to give legitimacy to media that write on 30 pages every day all the worst about their country and its government, it says among other things that the Serbian railway network is in complete chaos and a bomb title is being placed, which says "The stations are disappearing, trains are leaving forever." Dear citizens, is there more hypocrisy and disgustingly spoken lies, and is it just an untrue program with which you perform in front of Serbian citizens? This power, which since the Berlin Congress and in 1878, when Prince Milan hit the ground with a silver fool and started building a railway that was agreed with Austria from Belgrade to Nis, invested and did the most for the development of rail traffic, for the modernisation of rail and road infrastructure, for the acquisition of the most modern wagons, for the construction of high-speed railways and everything else. Now, in such a way, I can say, the bestial way, to this flat-out in nothing but an ill-intentioned title, is accused of this power in your voices. Dear citizens, it is no wonder that after those negotiations, the MEPs ran away with their heads no matter what they saw they were doing. I'd like to add something else. Nikita Khrushchev, a great Russian politician, said politicians are the same everywhere and would promise to build a bridge where there is no river. I can only say that I agree partially with him and I will try to explain that for example the Serbian political scene. It is often heard that politics has nothing to do with morality, that it is a matter of naked interest, without emotional reactions and using untrues as operational means to achieve certain political goals. But I don't want to agree to that finding at all. On the contrary, I think that politics is a wonderful thing that allows you to help your people daily and to facilitate their everyday life, ever since you embrace that goal in the cloak of love for your country, then it becomes where and where more dear and godly, but in order to look at things from that perspective and work to achieve these two highly exalted almost noble goals, therefore, a better life of citizens and safer, more respected and stronger states, you must, in addition to wisdom, in addition to courage, intelligence and endurance, have certain moral qualities without which all of these are previously stated void, and when you as a politician possess all these qualities and possess all these qualities, then you have no need to tell the truth to your people. Just remember how we said we'd cut both salaries and pensions, risk losing citizens' trust, risk losing power, but we didn't want the untrues to fog our citizens' eyes. However, if you are deprived of the need to rule in politics and in the desire to rule others and if you are an admirer of the one Makiavelli's that the goal meets the means, even when you're not telling the truth, show at least a certain amount of intelligence to figure out how you're going to do it. You can't say there's drugs in the henhouse without seeing if there's really drugs in there. You can't say that a two-year-old with a rifle gun in his hand was fighting the Germans, as Mrs. Marinika Tepic said recently at her party's pre-election meeting in Kikinda. If it were to be excluded from the fact that the gentleman who fought against the Germans at two years of age was the father-in-law of the President of the Party of Freedom and Justice, since at pre-election meetings and cannot meet more people than some friends and godmothers of her party, I would ask a question, dear Mrs Tepic, where do you have the courage to advocate to conquer power, when such basic facts cannot be checked and at least try to mock our wise people in a more skillful way and deceive them? If you fall, by means of a street jargon, because what you're doing is nothing but street and cheap matchmaking, on such a benign thing, imagine, madam, that by some chance and accident in Serbia, you get power and you get some important state function to run it, to do it, so that, what Serbia would have of it. But somewhere I understand that serious politicians need ideas, they need programs, they need something to offer their own people to get trust, but they're all aware that you're not capable of it. The people would certainly like to hear how you would increase their wages, build a stadium, hospital, make life easier, but if you knew how to do it, you would have already done it when you were in power. Since you are aware of your infirmities, the only thing left to you is the use of untrueness, as if this authority, I quote, sold Calemegdan for buildings and garages, where you point out that the construction of the so-called "K district" has caused irreparable damage to the cultural and historical monument in the heart of Belgrade, and that the institutions for the protection of cultural monuments have given the green light that the monument of exceptional importance is privatized, and by building it fills and destroys a good portion of the unexplored remains of the medieval city. It's a terrible fact that in your case, it's false, i.e. Lies, loss of weight and that you use them in everyday speech, regardless of the consequences they will cause for your voters. I said it nicely, not according to ours, because we work so that we leave clearly measurable results and naked eye visible. According to the data, it is clear that the contract for the purchase of that part of Belgrade's fortress was concluded between Belgrade's Beko configuration, which was then in bankruptcy, as a seller and Greek company "Properti Development" another 13. Eight. In 2007, when you ruled, which was neatly seduced by the municipal court in Belgrade. Please show some seriousness in the future. Be that as it may, I don't say cunning, as a feather of your coalition partner from the People's Party, who has a program of spilling Serbian blood on the streets, clearly calling for persecution, for rematch, for violence, whose members as a politically correct dictator have the use of stones in everyday speech, the shooting in the window of their political insinuators or your president, vice president, i.e. Mr. Bulatovic, who threatens to chase each and every one of them after his prodigal, whose threats I, behold, can't sleep for days, when I see what kind of human and moral thunders will come after me. Or at least look up to Mr. Aleksic's penitentiary and reputation of the opposition, who came up with the plan and said, "No matter what," I will now use the arrest of this gentleman who is suspected of being a drug dealer, I will charge without any single evidence or connection of the President of the Republic's brother, based on this lie, I will be in the media for a few months, because I have no other reason to be in the media, because I have nothing good or done, nor can I offer to my people. I'll be sentenced to a fine of several hundred thousand dinars, which is for me and my measly insignificant sum of money, and after the verdict, I'll be what I've always been, nothing better, nothing worse. Let me get this straight. Deal with your fantasymagories, play politics, whine about your country, gossip about it in interviews given by countries whose individual members of the leadership would prefer to delete the Serbian name from their dictionary, go to rally support against the SPC, insult this authority as incompetent because it has no sixth vaccine, but only five, because on the fifth floor of the third hospital we built in record time, it may be water leaks or somewhere not breathing a window. Cheer up against our athletes, who win more medals than when you were in power. Be against the fact that the temple of St. Sava has the most beautiful mosaic in the world or that the Cyrillic has become legally protected. And let your misdemeanor be the only program with which you will go before the voters. While you are doing this, this party, led by the president, who defined its ideological guidelines and tasks, will remain faithful to its lofty goals, which are the struggle for a better life for our citizens and for a safe, advanced and respected Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9711	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9712	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a proposal for a decision to elect judges who are first elected to this responsible and significant function. It is extremely important for the candidates to understand the responsibility of the judicial function, which, by their knowledge, behavior and system of values, will give them reputation and power. Also, we hope that the candidates elected as judges will not suffer pressure, that their cases will end in time and that only the rules of the profession will be maintained. First of all, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also because of the fact that our judiciary, i.e. that our judiciary is still vulnerable, we are obliged to choose the best. The Serbian Progressive Party provides unreserved support to the independent judiciary and unlike our predecessors, unlike in 2009, when we had a terrible reform of the judiciary, when judges were elected in party rooms, when the basic means of selecting judges was blackmail, political influence and manipulation. They set themselves up, wrote the laws on their own personal needs, and completely destroyed Serbia's judicial system. In the absence of justice, corruption flourished, and citizens still paid for their mistakes and abuses today. We managed to make a difference between us and them in this area. Today, the rule of law is strengthened, the judiciary is more effective and what is most important, citizens are returning faith in the judicial system. The effort we put into creating an effective, independent and independent judiciary shows our willingness to constantly improve the level of justice. It is important that we make a parallel, because that boast of the authorities by 2012 and their political influence on the judiciary show that we should not work and what would happen if they returned to power. It's just their password today. They use every moment to criminalise President Alexander Vukic and his family, inventing false affairs without evidence or grounds, which are in fact just proof of their infirmities and primitives. The policy they are today trying to impose on citizens of the Republic of Serbia is solely based on hatred and threats, and that is not Serbia that citizens want. And not only do they not want Serbia to return to the dark past, but they do not want those who have reversed it and who have destroyed both our credibility and our reputation in the world, those who have become rich and boasted. We want Serbia to continue its path of success and prosperity. We want this to be a regulated rule of law. We want zero tolerance for crime and corruption, a country where the Constitution and laws are respected. For this reason, it is important that we choose the candidates carefully and support the best that will be found for the first time in the chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9713	I thank the People's MP Pesic. Next on the list, distinguished national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9714	Thank you. Dear President, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office. Judges who will be elected as a member of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – Our children are expected to be independent, to exercise their judicial authority effectively, responsibly and with dignity for the benefit of the citizens, for the benefit of the economy, in order to quickly and efficiently come to justice. Without justice, of course, there's no right. I must point out that, in a very responsible way, by selecting judges, who are first elected to a judicial office, we strengthen the capacity of the judiciary, or judicial authorities, because by strengthening capacity through human resources, we expect that the availability of justice for the citizens and the economy will be within a reasonable period of time and that every citizen, as well as the representatives of the economy, will receive decisions from the court on a timely basis, as they are in accordance with the law. We expect the elected judges to be independent, but not independent of the law and the Constitution. In fact, they only need to be dependent on the Constitution and the law, because they make their judgments in the name of the people. Respect for the Constitution and the law is the main feature of the judge and the main feature of their independence. Of course, here I must begin by pointing out the name of Srecko Sofronijević, a Serb from Zvecan, who is in a masculine manner today in northern Kosovo, Mitrovica, who is wounded by doctors today. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic appealed to both NATO and KFOR and the International Community, and Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic headed to Raska, as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is always with his people where the people are. Of course, I, too, join the appeal that the whole world and the whole of Europe should know that the AP Kosovo and Metohija are in the harshest possible way in violation of the basic human rights of Serbs, which are the right to life and the right to their home. The international community, in accordance with international law, should take all measures to ensure that the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija remain there to live normally and not be discriminated against and expelled from the savage power of Kurti simply because they bear the Serbian name and last name. That's what Europe and the whole world need to know. That should be the point, because it is discrimination purely based on nationality and the most cruel way to endanger the lives of Serbs living in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. I must also look back at the period until 2012 when the yellow tycoon company, led by Gilas, Jeremic, Tadic, implemented the most shameful judicial reform in the history of the judiciary. The European Union fled Serbia because it viewed Serbia as the black spot of Europe in terms of corruption and lawlessness. Of course, that yellow tycoon rule in one day left more than 1,000 judges and prosecutors out of work and thus deprived them of their basic human rights, their right to work. Of course, all that Dragan Gilas did and the yellow tycoon company were past the law and past the Constitution. The Serbian Constitutional Court later declared unconstitutional individual provisions, judges and prosecutors were returned, but the error of the yellow tycoon company cost Serbian citizens 44m euros. They didn't pay for the court's skills, they didn't pay for the court's interpretations. Since 2012, when the SNS took over the exercise of power, of course, all these costs have been met. The yellow tycoon company, DOS, robbery and theft, otherwise, because Dragan Gilas, he said, managed to place 619m euros in his pockets at the time of the government's exercise and many million more in various world destinations. For example, close to 12,000 people were arrested and detained in the “Sabbe campaign. ” People were detained in such awe, criminal charges were filed against a small number of people, and many were sued for illegal detention, for disabling the rights of the defender, because of torture, later, after they had not filed criminal charges, and, of course, again the errors of the yellow tycoon enterprise were paid by citizens, because the multimillion-dollar damages were received by all those who were illegally detained. That neither the citizens of Serbia in need of judicial protection contributed to the fact that 138 municipal courts brought 34 basic courts, that they had left judicial units in many places, that citizens had to go from one place to another to attend the court hearing. Of course, the yellow tycoon company left behind 3.5 million items. Crime and corruption flourished, but in 2012, when the SNS took over power, the first and main objective and strategic commitment of the SNS, the government and today the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic was fighting crime and corruption, i.e. zero tolerance to crime and corruption. With the 2025 plan, one of the six objectives declared by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, and the government has accepted and implemented, is precisely a decisive fight against the mafia and crime. Of course, all this time, the state has been fighting the mob and crime decisively, and I'm only going to set one example. It's the arrest of the notorious mob group gathered around Veljko Belivuk. I must point out that there is no protection for SNS, that all are equal before the court and that justice applies equally to all. That's what we've shown by passing a series of anti-corruption laws. One such law is also the Law on the Origin of Assets, and I hope that the competent state authorities will take all measures in accordance with the law and investigate how Dragan Gilas has made 619m euros at the time of the government's exercise. I must also point out that during 2020, special anti-corruption departments were formed in senior courts and prosecutors, that 2,000 cases were committed, 973 criminal charges were filed, and 673 were convicted. Among the condemning verdicts were some SNS officials, which is certainly an example that there is no protection for SNS when it comes to violations of the law. The foundations of the medieval state were struck by Stefan Nemanja. The foundations of modern Serbia, economically advanced, were struck by President Aleksandar Vukic. The foundations of modern diplomacy were hit by Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, and this was shown two days ago, when Belgrade hosted the summit of non-classified people, and more than 557 delegates participated in the summit. This showed Serbia is fighting for peace and stability, respect for international law and respect for law. Alexander Vukic once said - There is no way to peace, peace is the way. Peace policy, stability policy, progress policy, is Alexander Vukic's policy. Aleksandar Vukic lives and works for Serbia and therefore does not have an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9715	I thank you, Mrs Jevtović Vukojičić. The next is Honorable Messenger Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9716	Thank you, Vice President. Since we often have the opportunity to discuss here these decisions on the choice of judges who are first elected to a judicial office, I, by which means, will repeat that this is an extremely good practice and I think it is extremely important and important for the democratic and any other potential of the Republic of Serbia. I stand firm at the point of view, not only as an MP, but as a graduate lawyer, that it is good for both legal practice, good and for judicial practice, good and for the prosecution practice, and I think it is very good for the executive authority, for the Ministry of Interior, for various security agencies, which all together need to produce one result in the context of the final result, let's say, one judicial verdict. I will take one example in the context of the economic crime of fighting corruption and everything else. We are now in one specific moment where, unfortunately, under the influence of different international organisations, international institutions, including the Venice Commission and everything else, we decide to go to another practice that we will establish in the next period of time, but we are about to be told about constitutional amendments and everything else, and I do not want to prejudge, but I am obliged to say my opinion. Since I come from BiH, where I have spent a good part of life and professional life, where exactly this example where tomorrow and in the future colleagues need to choose their colleagues, to evaluate them, to give the right assessment, did not give the right result, that is, that BiH in terms of the nearest neighbouring countries in this regard, as a reform of the judiciary that started 2000, which the foreigners led, given that the international protectorate, gave just the opposite results of those who impose ourselves here as standards, in the context of the story and future European integration and the better assessments for the rule of law, for Chapter 23, 24, etc. What I'm saying is that in a simple analysis here of everything we've been saying so far, it's extremely important that we not only analyze which of the proposed candidates we're going to choose here in the National Assembly, but rather analyze the effects of fighting crime and corruption in the judiciary. We are witnessing these days that we have an intense struggle by state institutions, primarily from the Ministry of the Interior who are really struggling to break up that octopus that has spread in all the pores of society and you can't catch up anymore, but constantly the MUP sends different reports, has some co-operation with different prosecutorial institutions, and what we can't in the ultimate effect of seeing what the final results are when we show political will and willingness to deal with organised crime. We are the reports that go in this direction on an annual basis, which means that we are operationally aware of how many reports have been filed, here's to say, from the area of economic crime, how many have been confirmed, how many have been charged, how many have been confirmed, and how many have been convicted, and how many have been convicted, where criminals who have decided to deal with economic crime and there are many in political structures, above all in the political structures represented by the former regime, have no final results in terms of processing, and then as the ultimate effect of that story, we have exactly what we can often hear, so let's ask - who's the verdict, who's being processed? No one has been prosecuted for a simple reason because before that they had positioned prosecutors and judges to prevent exactly that, extreme prosecution or judicial judgments, or they are being drawn up into long-term processes. Citizens' mistrust is just emerging in the interspace that exists between the MUP, the prosecution and tomorrow's judges. We're not all the same, everyone has a role to play. And now someone needs us here to convince the kind of story that implies that tomorrow, when the third pillar of government in the rule of law is like Serbia, when they are completely self-sufficient and they choose each other and judge each other, without any control, that everything in Serbia will flourish. I must say that I have had the opportunity as a member of the Constitutional Affairs Committee to attend a public debate here on constitutional amendments and I must say that I am as a man, and also as a graduate lawyer, extremely disappointed with what I have heard. I see that, given that we had representatives and prosecutors and the barristers and judges and professors of various things, I see that there is an extremely present and politics and political interests and that this topic is used and that it is precisely for this kind of need to try to open or start the integrity that the President of the Republic of Serbia has and that he is addressed to the story in the context of what is called the rule of law, that Serbia has no rule of law, that there is pressure on the judiciary, etc. No one in this room, I repeat it every time, and now I'm going to repeat it, has commented on any concrete verdict or prosecution decision, never anyone. But we have the right to say, and I'm just returning to the original thesis that this is the right principle, even in this symbolic sense, that on the basis of the communication we have with citizens, based on information that we can get from certain local self-government, we can dispute a certain candidate. Tomorrow we won't be able to do it at all, and as we are today, we will be responsible for the final result in terms of processing. Here, I take only one area that is extremely difficult, which has dissuaded all the pores of society in Serbia, which is economic crime, it is corruption, it is systemic, which literally exists everywhere. Another topic I would like to discuss briefly, which is what is happening today in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. I must say, as a Serb from Republika Srpska, that the first association I had today at these events in Kosovo and Metohija that such fate awaits both Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska. God forbid someone gets so cocky and says they're being rude, that this is what they're doing today. Do not let God judge any Serb in the region, judge and make judicial decisions by the judicial institutions of the quasi state of Kosovo, which are exclusively related to the political and any other interest. You can't get the impression that all this work every day has only one goal, and that is to move the Republic of Serbia off its right path, because the Republic of Serbia, its leadership advocates peace, progress, economic co-operation, and on this road, which daily achieves better and better results, turns away from different provocations of the focus of action, and to create an unstable area in which primary economic progress will be stopped, because there is no economic progress if you have political instability, that I'm not saying this in terms of security, etc. These messages, and these provocations that come constantly and for the lives of people, Serbs, in the space of Kosovo and Metohija that live there today are not provocations and we here from Belgrade or Banja Luka position can thus experience that it is a real threat to security, it is uncertainty not only for local self-government institutions, not just for citizens, it is insecurity for families, for children, for everything else. Here, it hasn't been two weeks, we have again a conscious provocation that exclusively aims to stop Serbia in its progress and in everything that has been achieved so far. For this reason, I am fully convinced of the wisdom, responsibility and credibility that President Aleksandar Vukic has to make the right and right decision in the context of protecting our national interests, but on the other hand not to allow him to quack judicial institutions with the help of different, to say, levers and quasi states that we have in these organizations that we can see today, to disturb our citizens. We must not allow this, and on the other hand we must not allow ourselves to be caught in all these provocations that are solely designed to stop Serbia from making economic and other progress politically. These days, what we were able to see in Belgrade about the organisation of non-classified and so many statesmen, foreign ministers, who visited the Republic of Serbia, bilateral meetings, a message that went out of Belgrade, of course that they were torturing someone and, of course, that Serbia is scrambling in that sense because not only is it leading in terms of the region but it is being imposed as someone who can play a more significant role on the international agenda regardless of the problem KIM has. The meeting was also well used to be able to tell what was true, what was our constitutional arrangement, what happened to us, that is, the way our territory was taken under the control of all those who are here today trying to direct certain pucks. For this reason, I think that this answer is going exactly in that direction that comes from these temporary Pristina institutions, as we call them, quasi-state Kosovo, that we should not fall for it, but that we should never allow any Serbian child, that no Serbian family or any other in KIM space can sleep peacefully. In that name lived free Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9717	I thank the honourable People's MP. Next on the list representative of the delegation club Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Viktor Jevtović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9718	I thank the chairman, Mr. Krkobic. Dear representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. Justice and law have always been the cornerstone of the state system, institutions that have committed and formed the basis of society and justice. The election of new judges places before them a commitment, but also a burden to carry out their work in accordance with the principles and oaths they make. The old folk says - not according to the grandmother, not by the uncles, but by the justice of God and the truth, and we say today - by the Constitution and by the law unlike the former tycoon regime, which was led by Dragan Gilas, where judges were elected at meetings of the local, municipal boards of the yellow company, in cafes with expensive tompus and alcohol, not to mention the scandalous reform in 2010, where 900 judges and over 700 honest and honorable prosecutors were fired, and the reason was that they could determine justice throughout Serbia. As a result, we are still suffering today, but today Serbia, headed by Alexander Vukic, is no longer the plague they pushed us into with greed and money in the order of 619 million intoxicated politicians, who destroyed everything that fell on their hands. Their long fingers devastated the state's register, and judges and prosecutors placed on their criminal mold. They covered up millions of robberies, privatization of a yellow cartel headed by Dragan Gilas. There's no such thing today, and the thieves of the former regime are hard to deal with. Now these same hordes that have destroyed the troubled citizens of Serbia again through their tycoon media, their Marines from Moravic, as well as the liar Alessic, a proven expert in devastation and robbery, Vuko Ho Jeremic, collector of expensive drinks and money, bereaved in his hatred of President Aleksandr Vukic and his family, as hyenas attack and have no mercy because the justice they have in the programme for Serbia is violence and terror. Enjoying the support of convicted criminals, they are cutting off everything that SNS is doing with Alexander Vukic, who is heroically fighting in this difficult time not only for Serbia, but for the whole region, and they are wishing without a choice to destroy everything that is already in their programme, and in part already proven, to tear Serbia away from the world again and kick it to the bottom, humiliated and on its knees, the people of Serbia no longer want to suffer terror from the phalanges and thieves, the bandits and wants to move forward, to be respected as a sovereign state in both the region and the world, as seen at the last summit of the unclassified where more than 100 foreign delegations and 40 foreign diplomats attended. It's Alexander Vukic's policy, progress and a better future for all our children. That's the proud Serbia that's going ahead. This way I want to appeal to the whole world and give full support to the troubled people of KIM with a request to endure because we have no other country but Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9719	I thank the honourable People's MP Viktor Yevtovic. This speech ends the first part of the session. I also thank the representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary. We'll continue after a regular break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9720	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9721	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a saying by Valtazar Bogisic, which Mr. Martinovic often quotes: "The law is for every law. “ So also for judges. The constitution is the law of all laws, if we agree on that. The Constitution says this, Article 103(2). - The MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility. The MP cannot be called to criminal and other responsibility for an opinion expressed or voting in the exercise of his or her parliamentary function. For an opinion or vote in the performance of its parliamentary post, the MP cannot be called. So he can't be invited, not convicted. He can't be called to criminal or other responsibility. Now, this constitution applies to everyone but me. But it doesn't say here unless it's supposed to be written here - unless it's Marian Risticevic. Then, in that case, this member is suspended. There are MPs who were with me when the criminal suit against me filed by Sasa Radulovic for the words spoken at the National Assembly's pay phone. As a contribution to the lawsuit was a transcript of a multi-session stenogram. Let's say I told him when he attacked me here from the parliamentary bench - what you stood in front of me like a stiff tomato. He felt that it was about him and that I committed some crime, although I did so while speaking at the National Assembly session, and he distracted me. His most difficult qualification was also his greatest mental pain because I mentioned a group there "stealulovic part of the battle company". He felt it was about him and that it was mental pain, and along with the lawsuit he went to copy a stenogram. The lawsuit was written in Latin, so I'm in accordance with Article 10. The constitution: "In the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter are in official use," he asked for it to be delivered to me in my own language and in my letter. The judge said about one and another violation of the Constitution in the First Basic Court, which is the judge from the famous 2009 reform, who became a judge based on the party's book, about like this - well, it says it in the Constitution, but I think otherwise. That's what I even have witnesses for. And nothing happened to the judge. The High Council of the Judiciary did not consider that the violation of the Constitution was a violation of the law and that it was the reason for removing the judge from the judicial office, because it is the High Council of the judiciary, not the National Assembly. The second time I heard it, I was sued by Nikola Kojo for words spoken for the pay phone, because I claimed that he and these actors who are constantly attacking the government and the government got a hundred million for various films from the Serbian Film Centre, and this Film Centre is funded from the budget. So no one in the government hates these actors because they're otherwise political-oriented, and that's proof of the resources they've received and that's tens of millions. That Bjelogric got over 100 million, and he got 20 million and wanted to make a movie about how Serbian doctors, with police support, are taking organs black and selling on the black market, and that's what happens in the Clinical Centre of Serbia. He attached video footage from the session to the lawsuit. Video from the session! As far as I can tell, that's where they want to judge me. They asked Mr. Martinovic, these Radulovic judges, strange judges, to lift even my immunity, as if I had killed a man. Although, I didn't call for immunity, because the Constitution guarantees you immunity by automation. This constitutional rule was written by the constitutionalists to protect the opposition, that the government could not prosecute the opposition or any MP for saying something that the authorities did not like. But, lo and behold, all of us have turned out to be the opposition, on whose side are certain judges who came to these positions with the help of the ruling party of 2008/2009. or in 2010 and mostly settled in that column. For example, in some courts you can, and that would be a good proposal, a large number of judges are honorable judges and I apologize to them, but in some courts you can form committees of the Democratic Party. As the Democratic Party fell apart, their strongest committees are in individual courts. It's nice, say, in the Injun court to put together a nice board of the Democratic Party, because everything else has fallen apart, to be far stronger than that. For example, Natasa Kandic proposed judges, so it became judges. Like, from Sremska Mitrovica, they really liked it in India. If there's no room, if they're not good for Mitrovica, they'll be good for India. That's how our judiciary behaves. So the law is for every law, the Constitution is for every constitution. He should stop, on the one hand, unlimited freedom, on the other hand limitless rights and freedom, and on the other hand stop power. But in our case, it seems that the Constitution and the law alone are the subject of various political processes, and that all others are amnesty when insults, injuries, threats, and so forth. It's about some kind of art, humor, freedom, so you can curse the president's mother, you can do anything. They can eat human kevapi, they can do anything, but the judges are pretty much competent, individual judges, mostly for MPs and politicians of the ruling majority. What about Judge Majic? I don't know what the High Council of the Judiciary needs to experience, and I suggest these judges don't look up to him or these judges I'm talking about, but to judge by law, to respect the Constitution and the law, to make justice available to everyone, to punish the guilty, to protect the innocent, not as in the case of Majic. Imagine a judge whose Supreme Cassation Court has twice declared a violation of the law. So, the Supreme Court of Cassation wrote, or said and wrote that Judge Majic twice violated the law, broke the law. It was the first time in the trial of the Gjilan Group. The Supreme Cassation Court is a verdict signed by Judge Majic, which freed 11 Albanian terrorists, who killed 80 civilians, non-Albanian nationalities, most of Serbian nationality, 34 are missing, and 153 were unlawfully deprived of freedom and tortured. And imagine, he found it appropriate to release the accused terrorists, because of what he said happened after the Kumanovo Agreement, so he thought it wasn't a war crime, but he just violated the law for the benefit of the accused and for the damage to the damaged. Very well played, in such situations as legal protection and when it is found that there has been a violation of the law by the judge, since it was not to the detriment of the accused, such a court case is not repeated. That's how Albanian terrorists got their hands on freedom with the help of Judge Majic. Why did he do it? I can't ask you why. I can't ask you why. Let's get this straight. I asked why he did it. Holy God knows that. Generally, the victims of Albanian crimes did not face justice, the criminals were not punished and the crime went without punishment, and our officers, the leadership, the civil and military, mostly, and you have convictions without crime, the perpetrators without crime, and in this case you have crimes where the guilty are freed, crimes without the guilty, because Judge Majic found it appropriate that he should release it. The Supreme Cassation Court said there was a violation of the law by the judge, but, behold, miracles, in such cases should be resolved, Mr. Arsic – right, should be resolved by the judge who violated the law. Especially in the case where the victims were 80 people who were killed, 34 were missing, and 153 were unlawfully imprisoned and tortured. In such situations, it's such a serious injury that it couldn't have gone unpunished. Now, look at the wonders, in 2017, the same judge again has a violation of the law and again I'm not saying it, but the Supreme Cassation Court, composed, I guess, of the best judges. If they say that Judge Majic has broken the law again, then it is more than true for me, since it is happening to him the second time. In the case of a 13-year-old child's promise, he concluded, and in that regard, he also caused some kind of segregation of the Roma national minority, he felt that since it was a 13-year-old minor, and this is not a minor, D.C. For 24 years, judge Miodrag Majic felt that there was no crime, that is to say, freed D.C. of the crime because he thinks both the accused and the girl are members of the Roma national minority in which full relations with children are acceptable. Isn't that right, Mr. Ackovic? That's the verdict he made. That's how he protected the Roma national minority. In my opinion, he violated the equality of citizens, and in a very, very bad way, he treated a national minority, saying that this is common to them, etc. The Supreme Cassation Court said that the law was broken, that the judge violated the law and nothing happened to the judge. Look wonders, this judge has an NGO, rather I would say anti-government, CEPRIS is so, in which he regularly criticises the National Assembly, deals with politics, goes on political shows with Olje Bećkovic, etc., participates in discussions and political debates in the media, without seeking permission from the competent elder in court, which is a obligation. They say it's out of line. It doesn't matter what the rule is, but they say it's out of line. And so he performs, criticizing the Assembly. While he was already making these judgments, he would order laws that would be acceptable to him and if they were legislators, i.e. The National Assembly, and if it's going to do our job, then we should go, you know, imagine now, that we're going to make judgments. Surely they would have made better judgments than Judge Majic, certainly not to release 11 terrorists for the murder of at least 80 people in the most brutal way. I'm sure they wouldn't release a pedophile if they were doing his job. We don't do his job. He was engrossed in the thought and his political like-mindeds so he could be a good candidate against us, so he reluctantly gave up and said, "Here, I don't want to be a candidate even though I'm involved in politics." To these judges who will be elected, I want them not to repeat the mistakes made by Judge Majic, and there are other such judges. I said, honor the judges who do their job with honor and honesty. Work in the way Majic does, it's not a judicial job, it's something judges can't do. I'm also dissatisfied because the judges, for example, are kind to Solak and Gilas. The fact that Solak and Gilas aren't in jail, that's not proof of their innocence, that's proof of the court's guilt. So, not their innocence, but the guilt of the competent courts and judges who came to office with their paths and deities, the famous 2008 and 2009, when the party decided to establish its courts, especially in Belgrade, because they were most important to him. There was a television broadcast last night on School TV. It is an event from the list of most important events, which was identified by REM. The Media Law of 64 states that events with the most important list of events of interest for all citizens can only be broadcast by television channels covering the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and have free access. That means he can do it on the antenna. Look at the miracles, it says in the law, only the right could achieve five or six national channels that cover the entire territory. But it happened, they say -- they bought rights, so they broadcast on part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is a violation of the law. No one in the D.A.'s office responds to that, everything is allowed. This broadcasts advertisements, which are cross-border television, United Group, United Media, are broadcasts for expensive money and thus takes part in the marketing market. The law also states, Article 27. The advertising law that television re-emissioning the programme, which is these "United Group", cannot broadcast marketing, except for the original part of the country's programme from where the programme is being re-emissioned. So, by broadcasting domestic ads, they take bread from domestic television, they participate in the marketing market, they take part of the money even though it is not registered in Serbia's territory, because they allegedly re-emitting the programme. This means that those who pay all obligations and who are registered in Serbia, who operate under the law, lose some of the money, which, of course, also affects the freedom of media reporting, because there is no freedom of the media without the original revenues they make from marketing, which can save their editorial policy from influence. Let's say the municipalities that discuss competitions, etc. If you don't have a share of the marketing market, you can only operate on the basis of a competition for the media that local self-government publishes. And no one in the judiciary is responding. I recommend that these judges be reelected to pay a little attention after all. Otherwise, it is about channels that are only fictitiously registered in Luxembourg, and let's say, the convention that has been confirmed in this House by law, the Convention on Cross-border Television itself says that cross-border television broadcasts from there in the law of Article 24 says so – if a television from abroad is being targeted by its own programme, mainly or in general, the state in which the reception is being carried out, that programme if the target, if that programme is intended for the country where the reception is being made, it is considered an abuse of law. I don't need to prove to you that it's 100% safe, "N1" television, "New S" and some of the Schools and Gilas channels that break and the Convention on Cross-border Televisions, which is legally confirmed here, and those laws that are confirmed here are even older than national legislation, and if it says that if a single cross-border target is exclusively and primarily on another country's market and the programme applies to that country in which the reception is carried out, then it is considered an abuse of law, because it seems to avoid obligations and registration in that country. At this point, Solak does what he wants, he takes the marketing market, he rewrites the real cross-border channels "Fox", "Histori", "Sinestar" etc., these are cross-border channels in which, behold, the original ads don't go, but you have a 599 dinar commercial, etc. Which channels from America do commercials, or from some other countries, original ads with the price list "Maxie", I don't know, 599, 399 dinars, etc. Obviously, it crosses cross-border channels, which loses re-emission status and none of the prosecution reacts, and therefore the opposition has put those into REM, since the jurisdiction over electronic media is not in the Assembly, is not in the government, is not in the ministry, over the regulatory body and since that time so much noise has been provided to Gilas and Šolak through Tanja Fajon, those international European delegations, to ensure that they have five members on REM's advice, so that Solak and Gilas can be provided in such a way. We don't have a problem with the opposition, we have a problem with the School's business and Gilas's company, and they're illegally re-emitting two hundred thousand seconds a day. Only that it is two euros a second, and on RTS there are up to 100, so, only two euros a second, four hundred thousand euros a day is taken from domestic media illegally for media that are allegedly cross-border or cross-border covered channels in favour of the "Darrekt Media", "CAS Media", "United Media" and "United Group". It's so loaded. Whoever founded it, mostly the owners are Solak and Gilas. They take so much daily, it's 365 days, 150m euros each year, and they finance and borrow money, thus funding their supporters who invent, lie, slander, etc., who do not attack the government, aim to attack the state, and they simply need to recognise Kosovo, unitaryize Bosnia, only to allow them to violently change power, which they tried to do last year by financing them solely the money I was talking about, which was illegally acquired. It says the saying, again by Valtazar Bogisic, is that, Mr Martinovic – the greatest injustice is when one of the evils of his work still benefits. All our viewers can recognize Dragan Gilas in that sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9722	The word has the People's MP Ilija Matejic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9723	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Representative of the Proposer, ladies above all, and then gentlemen of the People's Parliament and of course the peoples of the Republic of Serbia, there is today a topic that will soon be in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this is one of the last times that we can address the subject, and this is the choice of judges of basic and criminal courts, which will be spoken of later. First of all, a few words about candidates on the agenda today. And those candidates who are challenged and those who haven't graduated from the state law school, which is very good, I'm not saying it because I hate private universities, just work, but because they're candidates who studied in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Although Serbia has already paid for their education, they should stay here, live and work here and create their future, because that's where we all get it. Serbia will also get high-quality judges in those positions that are very important, and they themselves will remain in our country to live, work and build their future. Not long after graduation, all candidates also passed a judicial exam, which is the biggest pain in every lawyer's life, and I really congratulate them on that. I believe it was hard to fight to achieve that success. So when we vote, the ones we choose I want a lot of happiness in further work, I want them to have a lot of knowledge in their work, to stay solid on the ground first of all, because the judge's office is a very important and very difficult function, but I also want them to always judge by the letter of the law and not forget to make judgments on behalf of the people. Because even though our authorities are independent, we all encourage, therefore, we here also the MPs and judges in court, we all come from one supreme authority, which is the people, and I want them to really judge and essentially in the name of that people and never forget it in their work. I said this is one of the last chances to talk about this topic. This is because we as the National Assembly, that is, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, have launched a procedure to change the Constitution in the work of the judiciary, that is, in the part of how judges of the Republic of Serbia are elected, and in the future it will be done by the High Council of Prosecutors, i.e. for prosecutors, the High Council of Prosecutors, and we will only choose a few candidates who will be members of the High Council of Justice and the High Council of Prosecutors. I really think that's a good solution, because that's why we're increasing the independence of the judiciary, that is, the judiciary in our country, but we're still in contact with who chooses judges in this country, so that there's no way that judges can choose themselves, because that would inevitably lead to a kind of autocracy. I will remind, although all three branches of government in the Republic of Serbia are independent, in Article 4. The constitution is prescribed that the relationship between the authorities is based on mutual balance and control, and this is exactly the system through which this balance and control can be achieved. Whenever we talk about changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we need to mention a few important things. So all these constitutional amendments are available on the National Assembly site, as well as all public hearings. Every word said there is available to you all. Here you can see, according to these amendments, that there is no change in the preamble of the Constitution of our country, which we have determined from the very beginning since we mentioned that we want to change the Constitution in that part. So Kosovo and Metohija will remain an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Also, what is important, which our judges in public hearings were most concerned about, is that there is not a re-distant re-election of judges, as it did in 2009, when the previous government did, so in one day, watch out, only in one day, without a job, there are almost a thousand of our judges against the letters of the law and against the provisions of our Constitution, and that ultimately cost our citizens, so it was you who are watching and listening, 40 million euros, and we who go through the courts know that the consequences of this day and day, that there is this suffocation of courts and that some cases last years, precisely because of what was done 12 or 11 years ago. What was the impression of these public hearings, which made them avant-garde, is that the criteria for forming a working group, beware, are those people who wrote constitutional amendments, imagine, couldn't believe that the criteria for entering the Working Group were knowledge, that they had knowledge in the area of constitutional law and nothing more, no political criterion, no one was interested in that. Of course, such good constitutional amendments are the fruit of it and everyone was surprised, they say it's an avant-garde, and it should be quite normal and quite natural. We have received a positive opinion from the European Union on these amendments, i.e. the working body of the European Union, we have had a video meeting with them, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, and this is very important. We must always mention that we do not want to change part of the Constitution because of the European Union, we want to change it precisely because of our people, because of our citizens. Why? So, in the coming years, the EU will invest in the Balkans almost 30 billion euros and if we increase the independence of the judiciary, or the rule of law, we will certainly get most of that money, and although we continue to make economic progress, we are not a rich country and we could certainly use that money. Of course, we are not blind as a country, we see that they do not give some deadlines when they do, we see that some countries are even opposed to EU enlargement, and we very much like our Open Balkans initiative, where we make ourselves, so Serbia is a leader, we make a small EU in the Balkans. We have seen previous days that Serbia hosted the Summit of Unclassified, and that as many as 125 countries of the world came to Serbia, so 125 countries in just a few days, and we show that Serbia is a real cosmopolitan country, that we have run a policy of peace and stability, co-operation and the future, and we show it by our actions, and not by words and sad and sad that we haven't had such a policy 30 years ago. Imagine what kind of country we'd be today. There wouldn't be those wars, I don't think there'd be any bombings, and we'd be much richer. We would have even more success than we have now, but let it honor those who led the country during that period. So, we show that we run a clear policy of peace and co-operation, policy of the future and economy, and at that time, here, just this morning, it is seen that in Kosovo and Metohija their leaders are dealing with something completely different, therefore, with the complete destruction of every peace. So, we saw those ROSU units this morning show they're a little stronger than acid water, probably. We have seen that the naked Serbian people are not afraid of their units, so how much heart and how much courage our people have, it's amazing, I really admire them, and they're all gathered together to break into a pharmacy. Now the question is, what if there were two Serbian pharmacies, were they supposed to break in or get scared and go away and confiscate some goods they don't like, maybe some plasma cookie or figs from that pharmacy? This attack that took place, the attack on Srecko Sofronijević, we will not forgive you, it is a Serb who was shot by a crime he committed and that crime is because he is a Serb. I've heard that he's in surgery and he'll be fine and I'm very happy about it, I want a quick recovery, and we'll make sure as a country that the whole of Europe hears about this attack on him, see who we're dealing with and won't be forgotten. I want to tell our people that we remain calm and calm. Why? The Ships want to challenge Serbia's armed action by clinking their weapons. They want us to fight back, to have some excuse to attack us and to have some new attacks and thunder Serbs as it happened in 2004, and I want all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and the rest of Serbia to order that they remain calm and stable. There's someone who can fight for you, there's someone who can fight for Serbia and for his people, there's someone who can fight for the better future of our country and for the better tomorrow and for us and for our children. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9724	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9725	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, unfortunately no one could have predicted what happened today in Kosovo and Metohija, so I must begin my presentation with a reference to the attack on Serbs. The additional weight is that I am a member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and, behold, in the past few hours I have received and received a lot of calls and I would only appeal to all of our people to remain calm, not to allow what Kurti is trying to do for days and weeks to reverse the escalation of the conflict. I would like to tell our people that they are certainly not alone and that they have the full support of all of us, which is best shown by President Aleksandar Vukic, who is currently in Raška and is in a meeting with representatives of Serbs. The situation is very complex and difficult, but I am convinced that unlike some past times when Serbia could not, knew, nor wanted to react, when it couldn't save either the lives of our people, nor to ensure security, this time Serbia will know it and know it. President, Aleksandar Vucic reiterated once again that the international community must react and we want to send that message again today and NATO and KFOR are obliged to protect our people, and unless they are able to do so within 24 hours, any pogrom, attempt by the pogrom, our country will do so. I want a lot of health to our people and a lot of peace and that this kind of thing has already stopped being tolerated, that it ceases to say that it is necessary to refrain from violence or any kind of provocation, because Serbia is not provoking anyone or our people, but those bare-armed have been exposed to the attack of the armed forces of ROSU or as they are already called. It is regrettable that the international community is obviously currently, whether or not it is unable to stop Kurti, who in this way wants to make another political marketing ahead of the upcoming elections. But it is certainly not normal for this political marketing to be conducted in the way that is happening today, which is that another Serb was wounded, that he was in life's danger, that he was operated, it is absolutely unacceptable for anyone from the international community to observe all this. As far as today's agenda is concerned, I think that, above all, colleagues who were authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have explained to detail everything that is going on here today, but I think that my colleague Risticevic has also pulled out a very important parallel and why we are talking this way today and we are discussing judges. We just have to, because the citizens are asking us to. Why? Here you were able to hear more than once the subject of the 2011/2012 reform of the judiciary. For years, you could hear how close a thousand people stayed on the street in one day. What's very worrying is the fact that you could hear the judges choosing. I think we've heard about it many times, and I think even Mr. Milicevic here brought out papers and records from the DS municipal committee session in certain cities where in the lower left corner there was the seal of the DS municipal board from the city where it was located, and in the lower right corner of the court, which is absolutely unacceptable. Today you have a situation that some judges who have been elected by being a member, a DS official, or his wife or brother is a DS official, it was the only parameter and rapper that anyone would be a judge or not. Unfortunately, some of these judges still perform these functions today, and by their inaction they allow certain things to happen to others. Thus, citizens ask us, why still someone who has reportedly damaged Serbian citizens who have over 60m euros in 53 accounts in more than 17 different countries did not respond. Why many other DS officials who came to power naked and barefoot, people's words, who didn't have a penny of savings, are today one of the richest people in our country. The most difficult thing is to explain, however, how Dragan Gilas has managed to avoid the issue and answer those questions for a very long time. You know, if you go into politics with 70,000 savings, a woman's house and a used SAAB car, and in ten years, you go out with 22 million euros in real estate only. So 22m euros are registered in real estate only, and in 2018 he reported it as a candidate for mayor, the question is how and how did you get so rich. This question, as representatives of the SNS, we have been asking back years, but unfortunately we don't get the answer, even though the citizens know it, and we know it, that it just came in that way that he abused his position both mayors and state officials by trading for seconds with state television and his private company by selling and reselling seconds of advertising space to RTS and also at Studio "B" which is city television. When we talked about all this, then we got some kind of lame answer that Gilas was going to come to us and tell us everything he had and give us an answer to every single question we had, but it never came to that day. What is particularly interesting is the emergence of new data on the malversions of Dragan Gilas, which also concern both the judiciary and the judges. I think there's been a public report Saturday that leaks the information that one of the dailies came out with specific data. The veritas papers show clearly who, how and how Dragan Gilas is funding. There's over twenty different companies behind which are so-called. Independent analysts, various marketing agencies, individual media, journalists' associations, but also individual politicians, who are from its immediate environment. In those transactions, Dragan Gilas loaned them, if it can be said, loaned them, but essentially donated more than 2m euros and thus created a machine that would work for him and for his benefit. This is important to highlight for a simple reason, because these two million euros did not earn him as an entrepreneur, but are the money that was taken from citizens and Belgrade, but also from Serbian citizens. I am someone who comes from Belgrade and who is very close to local politics, when we talk about the city of Belgrade, on many occasions suggested, urged competent institutions to examine all the allegations we have learned about. Unfortunately, the pattern is repeated and you will see from these three examples, as much as Dragan Gilas actually thinks that all money can be solved. According to this data, Dragan Djilas borrowed money from different persons, but what gets into our eye is the fact that he organised protests in Mladenov yesterday, and I think he is still one of the most important officials, it is about Dejan Čokic, former president of the Mladenovac municipality. He loaned that man three million dinars. But, interestingly enough, Dejan Čokić remained in Mladenovac remembered, here are his colleagues from Mladenvec, so they can correct me, as someone who is the image of corruption, foreclosure and abuse of official position. Namely, Dejan Ciocic was the president of the Mladenovac municipality, and he also had gas stations with it. Someone would say there's nothing controversial about it. However, every official car of the Mladenovac municipality was obliged and obliged to pour fuel on its pumps. What is particularly interesting is that the Anti-Corruption Agency has seen countless violations, as well as no reported assets, and after many measures, because they have made a recommendation to be removed from the post of president of the municipality and was later arrested, it seems to me that one year, Mr. Spasojevic, has been and processed. So to this man who is the best indicator of the abuse of official position, Dragan Gilas has borrowed three million dinars. And that's not all. In his wealth there are over 2,000 square meters of residential and business space, which he never reported anywhere and could not explain where he came from. He's also famous for selling and reselling municipal land and property, I think he's a father-in-law. I'm sorry. It's not about your father-in-law. It's about your brother. So you have a situation where the municipality land and property of Mladenovac municipality sold to his brother. I apologize for accusing his father-in-law. It's my fault. Another official, the one Vesenovic sold his father-in-law a union car, i.e. He bought the car from his father-in-law for union purposes to keep the money in the family and the company. What is further symptomatic is the second official of the Freedom and Justice Party, it is Vice President Bulatovic, who is in charge of agriculture, who sold his party to Zelenje, Dragan Dilas in 2019. Why? Because it takes 10,000 signatures to register the parties, and Dragan Djilas could not have provided it at that time, and in particular could not now, so he took over from Bulatovic and thus formed a party of Freedom and Justice. Why am I telling you all this? I also said in 2019 that he sold the party to Dragan Gilas. It is symptomatic that nearly six million dinars, Dragan Gilas, lent this same Bulatovic, just in 2019. So, just in 2019, when the party of Freedom and Justice from the Greens Party, Dragan Djilas, Bulatovic borrowed six million dinars. The top of all that I'm talking about is a loan that is one of the biggest on this list, which concerns Alexander Bjelic. Aleksandar Bjelic is known as the closest associate of Dragan Djilas in Belgrade, was arrested in the "King Alexander Bulevara" affair, although we discussed it several times, unfortunately there was no final result. Not to be critical of all this, but at the end of my presentation, I'm going to commend something. In fact, Aleksandar Bjelic received 36m dinars from Dragan Gilas. To know what it was about, this man was his closest associate throughout the term of Dragan Gilas, who participated in what-what machinations and Dragan Gilas never gave him up. He tried to justify all his sins. However, he failed, although the citizens were dissatisfied in the first wave, first of all because they were cut off and because nothing was done transparently, and Aleksandar Bjelic then participated in a famous affair, where as much as 6m euros were embezzled. Why am I telling you all this? Not only do we have criticism regarding certain judicial work and the fact that people who have apparently made a fortune at the expense of Serbian citizens have not proven their wealth, or have not answered the question of how they have become rich, here is something to commend. Today, the indictment against this same Alexander Bjelic, for embezzlement of these funds, has been confirmed, and it gives us a new level of trust, primarily citizens in the judiciary, and it shows us that you can't embezzle that kind of money, and that you go unpunished. In order for the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia to know what it was about, namely, that year 2011, when the reconstruction of the Bulevar King Alexander was made, you also know that there is a Law on Public Procurement and that there is a Law on the Budget System, namely, offers offered by the companies "Switelski and Pul", it was that these works would be carried out by 1.1 billion dinars. The "Balkan Construction" offer was 1.7 billion dinars, and it was unclear to anyone why, and if a much more expensive offer went through and got the job. What particularly falls into the eyes of citizens, but also of all those who do a little bit of business, is the fact that information about who got the job, the company "Shitelski i pul", was only received on December 31st, although the contract with the company "Balkan Construction", was signed, even nine days earlier. If that's not enough, to ask ourselves what it's all about, it best shows an example of where books, books, journals, works aren't run properly. Why? None of the pages were confirmed by the seal, and because you could never see the structure or the material, or the companies that delivered it and did it, that all this was not an empty story, it was also seen in those years when the competent institutions warned that all this was not good and that it was a number of violations. I am convinced that the judges we choose in the voting day, taught by some negative examples, will do our job in the right way, and will make judgments on behalf of the people. After all, we are all here because of the citizens of Serbia and all of us here as one big team have to work in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and our country, and I am convinced that everyone who wants good for our country must respect the law and not be seen selectively, but judge by law and law, and above all, in the interests of our country and the generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9726	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9727	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today, as counterpart Elijah said before us, may be a session where for the last time we will discuss the choice of judges because unlike members of the former tycoon regime that implemented judicial reform in order to privatise the state and the absolute control of all branches of government, we are here to work to raise democratic capacity and raise the efficiency and effectiveness of the work of all institutions, respect for the law and the Constitution. I am absolutely sure that the judges that are proposed, which meet the conditions and which we will choose today, will do their job in accordance with the letter of the law and as prescribed, and all in the interest and aim of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of judicial reform, my colleagues have already mentioned this shameful reform that has reduced the trust that citizens had in the judiciary, and it is absolutely proof of how much this yellow tycoon octopus has worked to destroy everything we've had, and in order to just disable and reduce the capacity of the Republic of Serbia to fight for the interests and security of its citizens. Before that, they worked on destroying the military, destroying our defence capabilities, and today these same people have the nerve to go to the media and talk about security services, to talk about the military, to talk about what the state should do to protect its citizens. I don't need to mention names, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know it well. counterpart Alexander mentioned, unfortunately, today is a difficult day for Serbia because we have seen what is happening in Kosovo, that actually in the north of KiM there is no action in the fight against crime, but we can actually characterise it as a terrorist attack and try another pogrom over Serbian life, and that is precisely why - because Albin Kurti is a person who is actually trying to rule Kosovo and who wants to write history about so-called. Kosovo has since its second coming to power, is trying to reach votes by scaring citizens, by making it impossible for Serbs to exercise their rights and elect their representatives, and by absolutely helping individuals in the Republic of Serbia, which I will discuss in more detail. Unlike the 2004-2008 period, unfortunately, in 2008, when they unilaterally declared that independence and a false state of Kosovo, the state of Serbia had neither the possibility nor the capacity and that it wanted to react, because the yellow tycoon regime absolutely destroyed everything in Serbia, and the president who led the country, Boris Tadic, was faster and better escaped to Romania and announced, fearing the reactions of the people of Serbia. In contrast, we see today that President Aleksandar Vukic reacted immediately, that he is in Rasko, where he talks with representatives of Serbs with KIM, where all institutions that fight and advocate for the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people are present. Today, Serbia is not a state that bends, which apologizes, which does not take care of its people, but is a country that is ready and able to guarantee the security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and whose security it is absolutely fighting for. We could see clearly, and after the incident that took place, how certain political options are determined according to this incident. While my esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs and the state summit absolutely condemned what is going on at KIM and where we have sent the calls, particularly President Aleksandar Vukic, who immediately called on Mr Lajcak and said what is clearly and loudly, on the other hand you have members of the Gilas opposition, the yellow octopus, who in no way tried to condemn what is happening in Kosovo. The only one to reach out was Borislav Borko Stefanovic, the same one who signed in 2011 and wanted to introduce borders between Serbs and Serbs, who introduced a border between Serbs and Serbs and who worked in the interests of Albanians, absolutely not fighting for the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, Vuk Jeremic, who asked that famously stupid question at the International Court of Justice and gave wind to Albanian separatists in the back to implement his plan, which gave the Malteses a chair to Pristina in the UN, at a press conference he called today, asking journalists to comment on developments in the north of KIM, said - I will not talk about it. So from that sentence, we see absolutely what attitude it takes towards the events in the north of KIM, about the events and what the Serb people down there are experiencing, which clearly says that the wolf changes hair but never wonders. In this case, the wolf founded his own party, but what he stood for while he was in the Democratic Party, which is that Kosovo becomes absolutely independent, has not changed that view or opinion. Unfortunately, today we have experienced a situation to clearly see members of the opposition who are still working to destroy the Republic of Serbia. It was little during the government that they melted tanks, which sold military property, that they destroyed the military's capacities so that it could guarantee the security and security of citizens, little was it that they destroyed the judiciary's shameful reform in Serbia and we talked about how unfortunately and financially damaged the Serbian citizens' budget, that money that could be used at that time and for the roads and for infrastructure and for the resolution of other problems and which unfortunately had to be paid to judges and prosecutors who were damaged by this reform, little was it that we and the international citizens of the Republic of Serbia were embarrassing their performances, where they boasted that both father and mother were in their own procedures, that I did not express how they said it, that I did not quote, because we are decent people here, but they know the excellent citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but they continued to destroy the structures and state security, and we could see it at this conference today. Of course, Jeremic continues to compare us with the state of dictatorship, and yet, I say, it is something that is their special feature, that everything they attach to us and Aleksandra Vukic is actually what they would treat the Republic of Serbia, that they want the Republic of Serbia to be their private prey, to be more commoner with which they will do whatever they want. When he commented on the ways in which social networks are written about certain people, he said he was absolutely not interested in what is written on Twitter and on social networks. Well, of course he doesn't care because he absolutely showed his attitude and attitude towards people on social networks by saying that he was wrong not to say - let, let, let, let, let, let my hand of justice wait for you when I come to power, etc. Then he's talking about the state having some kind of secret police. It was absolutely their time where, unfortunately, citizens and how they lost confidence in institutions. Probably if they had some of their secret police and institutions that they formed to control the entire state and all the branches of the government even more closely and to work with them on the principle of "Multiika" of the corporation, as Dragan Gilas does. He is talking about living at the time of Milosevic today, and he forgot that his father at the time of Milosevic and how he used his benefits by being a member of the SPS at the time, that is, he was in the functions he unfortunately abused, and those functions he used to use to teach this Vuk Jeremic, and today that Vuk Jeremic would return to his country by running around the world to sue, to tell all the worst about her, to say that there is some dictatorship here. He attacked today, along with his associates members of the BIA, director of Bratislava Gasic, and at his conference he made it clear what he had to do with both justice and justice. They say there's some kind of pressure on the justice system, on prosecutors, etc. Exactly their conference, what they have presented today is proof that they are putting pressure and proof of what kind of relationship and attitude they have towards justice, because they, unfortunately, continue to live in error that they are the ones who control the judiciary, that they are the ones who decide who the judges are. We saw that today they were both prosecutors, and judges, and at the protests they staged in the previous period, we saw what executioners would be, i.e. executioners and some kind of justice. Then it is called that these cases and events are known to the whole world, how they will use their connections around the world to hear about it, and we know what its links are through the CINS organization, the criminogenic links that are absolutely used to launder money, but fortunately at the international level slowly one by one of these people falls. All those affairs and events that we could see, when it comes to his NGO that he purposely formed to come to funding illegally, as it ends. He said that he is an honest patriot, that the person who is fighting for the right of Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija, to fight for citizens of the Republic of Serbia today would condemn events at the conference and would say that he would use his connections to let the international public know what is going on in Kosovo and Metohija, to crimes committed by Serbian citizens in northern Kosovo and Metohija and ask for certain measures to be taken on this issue. Of course he didn't do it, that he didn't want to do it because Vuk Jeremic only works in the interests and interests of his bosses, and we still see that his boss, Dragan Djilas, has not changed his boss. Then he addressed Zdravko Ponos, chief of staff at the time when the tanks were melting, when the military was destroyed, who said he had decades of experience as a public official in the work, openly working against state institutions, working to undermine the security and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by openly revealing the identities of individual officials, followed by that famous lawyer, Vlad Gajic, who is threatening to put pressure on both the judiciary and the security services that would reveal other identities of those agents if they did not do what they say, or did not act according to the system as they wanted to do so. This is a clear view and evidence that they treat both the Republic of Serbia and the judiciary and the citizens, and apparently they have agreed with each other here, so that the current of Vuk Jeremic goes against BIA, and the current of Dragan Djilas, led by Marnik Tepic, known for the chickens she discovered in Morovic, goes against VBA and military security services. In this way, they make it clear that they are not in the interest of security or security of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they want to continue what they started and in which they are fortunately, with the will of the citizens of Serbia stopped in 2012, which is to completely collapse the state, fully privatise it and treat it, as I said, as with the farce, exactly as they normally did. Then they wonder, why do they not have the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? After what they've done today, this support and what's been done to them, and the research says they've been on the verge of censorship, they're going to fall even more, because this kind of people have once again given confidence that they're deciding something in this country without talking about the levels of local communities, they absolutely don't need to, because their intentions are clear. They showed their cards, and I say by doing so and by the way they responded specifically to the incidents that took place today in northern Kosovo and Metohija, that they are absolutely not interested. At the introduction of their conference, they say -- you know, we scheduled this conference yesterday, it has nothing to do with the events in northern Kosovo and Metohija, and it absolutely raises suspicion among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that maybe this is an agreed activity with people in Pristina, with the desire to attack Serbia from two fronts, attack President Aleksandr Vukic and try, but only by trying, because they have failed to do so and will never, dispel the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia both to the services and to the institutions and to President Aleksandr Vukic. It will not succeed because unlike their former head, who held the presidency of the Democratic Party presidency, as the judges chose in their municipal committees and staffed, he is talking to people from northern Kosovo and Metohija today among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in Rasko, and is struggling to find a solution to this situation, and as I said, Serbia will absolutely not stop and will not allow the pogrom that took place in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9728	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not believe that there will be a session in recent times to discuss the choice of judicial officials who are elected for the first time without touching the famous 2009-2010 reform, as many judges who have done their job fairly have lost their calling. Among them, after the judges, were prosecutors, and since some were completely undeserved, I guess the regime then invested in the future, received judicial functions, so today we have a very large number of judicial proceedings that are under way, I would like to see them not in progress, but that there have been more court proceedings for various abuses that took place in the territory of the Republic of Serbia from 5 October 2001 to the day of today. Of course, there can be no discussion in the National Assembly about the choice of legal holders without touching Judge Majic. I am not going to talk about how he was elected, whether he is humiliating his colleagues, the holders of judicial functions, whether he is struggling to create mistrust in our judicial system and not to list all his actions which are unworthy of the functions he performs, I will only mention, and regarding today's developments in our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, that Judge Majic has a certain responsibility, if not someone else, then at least moral. We are somewhat like Serbs and Serbian citizens used to the fact that justice for Serbs does not exist outside the territory controlled by our country, but we do not give a rat's ass when we feel from our judges the injustice for all the loss of the Serb people in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Judge Majic is the one who freed the Gnjilan group as a member of the Appellate Council. What more do you want us to say to ask the representatives of the High Council of Justice what does that man have to do and not be judges anymore? Today on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija again Albanian terrorists, dressed in so-called Police uniforms, so-called Kosovo and Metohija police are shooting at Serbs again because they know that if they happen to come under the attack of the Serbian state and Serbian authorities they have a Majic judge who will free them. Don't let anyone spill their ashes anymore, that the responsibility of all those who participated in it for today's events doesn't exist. And how there is and should be shame on them. I don't want to talk about how fascism wanted to get into Serbia at a small door, but once again, all the authorities that have a certain responsibility have to do their job right. We do not expect everything from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do not expect everything from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The judiciary is a branch of power. We do not have the right to interfere, but we have the right to seek responsibility and we have the right to seek results and it is not a violation of judicial independence and independence, because as a science, it means that the man who seeks protection from his country before the court, and the courts are a state, should experience that justice as something that is true and by the state, and when we have such judgments as the Gnjilan Group, it is easy for Judge Majic to say that the judicial system and the judicial function and courts in Serbia are no longer serving anything. Meanwhile, those who attack the current government and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, that other than the really embarrassing reform of the judiciary, well, even the president of the Supreme Cassation Court did not know to choose according to the constitution. Nata Mesarevic was chosen by a falsified proposal. The Constitutional Court has challenged the election of the president of the Supreme Cassation Court, who was appointed by Tadic, Djilas, Solak and others, the one who should have freed the chipratic terrorists in an unconstitutional manner. Bosko Ristic, a man picks himself up and leaves. No one was responsible for that. We here today in the National Assembly have a source in the proposal for Nata Mesarevic which is hidden. We don't have the paper, the first paper, by which the election procedure of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court was initiated, you don't have it in the archives of the National Assembly, because they immediately saw it unconstitutional, they removed the paper. Then our Justice Committee went into direct application of the Constitution. The constitution is not applied directly but through laws, so the Justice Committee has initiated a procedure for electing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court on the basis of a proposal from the High Council of Justice which does not exist because there has been no general session. Of course we still have problems in the functioning of our judicial system. We also have problems if you of the 17 candidates for Judges of the Seven are challenged at a session of the National Assembly that is a serious problem. They are not challenged because there is something against someone, but because of various things they are not worthy of performing a judicial function. By safeguarding the integrity of these people, we won't mention it. But if this reform comes into effect, do not blame the MPs for what we will do for the judges that some other authority will set up to read what makes them unworthy of the judicial functions. Wherever you go, whenever you bury it, you will always, when it comes to all the illogicalities, irregularities, illegalities, non-constitutions, to run into the former regime, because, you know some things and some of the results that the former regime has cannot argue with. Neither can they, although they would like to challenge them, because how will someone challenge the next data, that in 2008, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, there were 2,821,700,000 of our citizens in a working relationship. It's official data, theirs, they hide it to the soul, it's very hard to get that data, because it's always going to show you around the branches the number of employees, in construction so much, in education so much, in health care so much, etc. But there's a way to get that data. For example, in 2012, 2.228,300,000 citizens. The difference is uh, nearly 600, 590,000. I was convinced that during the former government, the former regime, about 400, 450 thousand people were out of work. Now I see it's close to 600,000. You don't have that kind of information that's so interesting for this debate, but when you have this information, what's the former regime going to talk about? That there is a dictatorship in Serbia, that there is no rule of law in Serbia, that judges and prosecutors do not do their jobs. I agree, but not as they see it, but as I may be experiencing it and as I see it, and as a legal state we literally don't exist. That here, in the National Assembly, retarded menthols, that's what they call us just so you know, because these are all some fictions that are not tangible, and there's no violation of the independence and independence of the judiciary, and that they're not doing their job properly, or whether it's dictatorship, it's a matter of personal experience. When you say that 600,000 people are out of work during the government of the former regime, it's a data that's accurate, which is easily verifiable, which we all see. Why are these data being used? Some to cover up their misdeeds while they were in power, some to get their hands on the authorities again and make new misdemeanors, new crimes against their fellow citizens, citizens. You know what, to come to power, and even by being brought to the West or by other embassies, even through a coup, you still need to have a certain amount of authority, a certain number of people who are going to believe what you're saying and that policy that you're running. Now we have a famous affair that is present these days, and I'm very interested in whether our judicial and prosecutorial authorities will respond to this. It's famous Veritas papers, famous Gilas loans. I hear that this is where the Tax Administration turned, so now some debate has taken place – what are incomes, what are expenditures, who should be counting here, how to be in charge, how to repay, debt, etc. People, when I read these papers, or an article of one investigative journalism, there are tax evasions all over the place. Wherever you turn is tax evasion. It doesn't have to be a philosopher and discuss whether it's income, whether it's expenditure, whether it's been 10 years, whether it's, whether it's a basic activity, how it's written, etc. I beg your pardon, if, for example, 6 million received the Media Centre, originally founded by NUNS, transfers 100% ownership to the legal person "Demost" doing research for the needs of the SAA, and the head of this company is former editor-in-chief "Today" Zoran Panović, on 2.4.2012, owned by Milena Ristic. Here's your tax evasion. You have a loan which is registered by the recipient having a certain obligation to the donor and at the same time providing a service because Demostat is involved in researching a public opinion. They're the famous Gilas research he's only one step away from defeating the evil Alexander Vukic. The service is done. It's not invoiced. Tax evasion, a million and 200 grand. What's the prosecutor waiting for? This isn't about the tax police. This is a matter of prosecution and judicial authorities. We can go on without any trouble. For example, a million and 200 thousand, the Integration Development Team, Saša Stojkovic, 100% owner. Stojkovic is the editor-in-chief of the "Info Vranjski" portal, which openly supports Dragan Gilas's policy. There's a colleague here who's from that neighborhood. The same thing, a million and 200 grand, the service is done. He represented the politics of Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas paid for it fairly. It's not illegal. It's illegal that they didn't account for it, invoice it, charge taxes and pay taxes. In this case - 240 thousand. I'd just like to see one of us accidentally scuttling like this Media center a million and 200 grand to see how we'd get past those same prosecutors or judges who were elected in that famous 2010 reform. We can talk more. One of the loans was mentioned by my counterpart Markovic Aleksandar, Sasa Bjelic, former driver Dragan Djilas and city manager at a time when the SP leader was the Serbian government minister and mayor of Belgrade. In 2019, Multicom borrowed 35 million and 800,000 dinars, which is more than 300,000 euros. Now, that service can't be invoiced. He can't, let's be clear. The service is called silence, because it is the same Alexander Sasa Bijelic and is being blamed and is being prosecuted for the reconstruction of Belgrade's Bulevar King Alexander. Now, let someone from the judiciary tell me – how can Alexander Sasa Bijelic be prosecuted for abuses during the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar without being prosecuted for it by the executioner of the budget, which is Dragan Gilas? So no dinar can pay the city to anyone without the mayor's signature, in this case, Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas pays for Alexander Sasa Bijelic's silence 300,000 euros, as well as every mobster, nothing else, because when one of the mobsters comes under the influence of the law, the silence of his associates is paid, the family must be provided with it, while this one responds and maintains the fine for its boss. I ask the question – why is this investigation not extended to Dragan Gilas as mayor? We have experts, too, through loans. Now, I don't know if they can book here, whether they can hide the money or not. We have besides independent journalists and experts, so there was a certain amount of 16462,000 and was given to Zvonimir Zvonko Nikezic, co-owner of "CES Mekona", who was arrested in 2012 on suspicion that he was involved in the robbery of Pančeva Azotare. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the procedure, as far as I know, against Nikezic is not over, and Sasha Dragina. Is it the same thing here that Nikezic has to keep quiet and accept part of his responsibility and be rewarded with 16 million dinars? That's what I'm talking about when we, as MPs, claim that our judicial system needs to react a little better, it needs to be a little more successful. You know what, if 600,000, but I forgot, I'm sorry, we have these, too, famous portal "directly", 4.5 million get from Gilas. Well, and there's a service done, only it's not invoiced. Another 900,000 dinar leak. I don't know what the prosecutors and the judges are waiting for? If we need members from the National Assembly, members of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Energy, members of the Finance Committee, we need to give them a lecture on what public revenues are, as they are recorded, no problem. Just let them do their job once, because this isn't just about the tax administration's jurisdiction. And this IRS can't prove by itself, it can't, there's no mechanism. He can't listen, he can't produce evidence, he can only make records, nothing more. We mentioned "CES Mekon" and Nikezic. I have to ask a question - so, here, we said that from 2008 to 2012, 2013, in 2012, 600,000 people were out of work in 2012? For tomorrow's debate, I'll count right in. No one answered, no one, no one. One article I found from 2012, that's when it was already seen to be the end of the former regime's government. The staff of CES Mekon's consulting house, the owner of Zvonimir Nikezic, have been prime ministers, finance ministers in the past ten years, and as state representatives have sold state-owned companies worth billions of euros and controlled or controlled the country's main economic leverages. The NBS controlled Nikezic, controlled the Securities Committee, controlled the Fiscal Council. It's still in control. That's all he's got left, and we'll figure it out. No one for hundreds of thousands of jobs, to read privatisations, has a problem: Milkara Sabac bought a "Farmakom". Was he in bankruptcy? Involved in an affair around Agrobanka. Right? Let's move on. ‘NIN’ bought ‘Ringier’. That's why NIN defends Nikezic, Gilas and Šolak so much, just so you know, what objectivity. But I don't mind, just so you know who owns it. FOD Bor – failed privatisation, "Serbian Valjevo" failed privatisation. "Belgrade film" suspicious privatisation. He consulted at the Privatisation Agency, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Tax Administration, "Serbiagas", "Telecoma". We're going to be doing that for a while tomorrow, both Telecom and Post and Airport and Banks in Restructure. Wherever you turn, there's Nikezic everywhere. Is it possible that he's only guilty because of Azotara? Is it possible that only he will answer, he and Sasha Dragin, for 600,000 jobs that disappeared during the four years of their government? Is that possible? Well, it's possible, because we have judges like Judge Majic, because we have prosecutors like Judge Majic, because they act as protected, as sacred cows, hide and hide behind judge and prosecutorial independence and independence. Not to mention that these are prosecutors and judges who were elected in this famous reform in 2010 and that in a certain way, protection, they owe thanks both to Dragan Djilas and Šolak and Nikezic and Dragina and to the unfortunate Oliver Dulic and everyone who was in the former regime. They're going to run court proceedings until it just loses every sense of purpose, so they can finally get rid of them. I appeal to all the young judges and those honest and honest judges, whom most of them are fortunate in the Serbian judiciary, and prosecutors, whom, too, most of them in the Serbian prosecutor's office, are doing even better, even more diligently, to give our citizens and judicial and prosecutorial protection the way they deserve, and I think they deserve much better than they do in these few years from judicial reform until today.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9730	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9731	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office and are the holders of the judicial functions of those who decide on someone's right, who, as a judicial authority, aim to protect the rights and freedoms of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. As SNS MPs, it is our pleasure to speak and affirm the policy we are conducting with President Aleksandra Vukic, because we are proud of the results achieved by the SNS since 2012 in all areas of social life, and it is evident that significant shifts have been made in the area of justice. Today we have such a situation that judges do not get judgments, but that judgments are made on behalf of the people, and there is a big difference between what the SNS is doing and what these representatives of the former regime were doing until 2012, who have made their best efforts to destroy Serbia economically and politically, but also to implement the catastrophic reforms of the 2010 judicial reform. I responsibly argue that there is no judge in Serbia today who can say that at any time someone from the SNS invited him and said what verdict he should pass. This is simply impossible in Serbia today and, therefore, as far as the SNS is concerned, we can freely say that we believe that the judiciary in Serbia is independent and that it shows two examples from this 2021, which are rulings against President Aleksandar Vucic and against Goran Vesic. Anyone who claims that in Serbia the verdicts are made either by the dictatorship of the government or by an eyeless lie or may think about the period until 2012 when a good part of the Serbian judiciary was influenced by people, such as Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, and when judges and holders of high judicial functions were elected and exclusively on the municipal boards of the DS and in order to reach some responsible function in the Serbian judiciary, you had to simply be a member of the DS. Such an unheard reform in the area of justice that was implemented in 2010 has shown and proved that members of the former regime are only concerned about personal interests, that they are above each policy, even above Serbia's interest. The unprecedented, catastrophic and embarrassing 2010 judicial reform cost Serbian citizens 11 billion dinars. The unheard reform was also characterised by the EU as a catastrophic procedure, where nearly 1,000 judges remained on the street in one day, ran out of work, and many judges cost both health and life. So, and then after 2012, we had to correct their mistakes, because before 2012, as I said, the laws were passed in accordance with the financial interests, above all, Dragan Gilas, but also other his associates, members of the former regime, so that they could get rich. If the judiciary had functioned properly during that period, so someone would have to ask Dragan Gilas -- how it is possible in Serbia's public life to appear in 1991 as a modest November leader, and then in 2012, after a few years in power, as mayor of Belgrade, to have millions of euros in secret accounts, to now establish that his brother Gojko Gilas has 35 properties in elite locations in the city of Belgrade. I don't know, honestly in which country it's possible, without anyone asking you anything. Now that the SNS has led to a strong economy, that we have consolidated public finances, that factories are opening up in Serbia, that new investments are coming, that new jobs are opening up, in one word that we have strengthened the Serbian economy, now Dragan Gilas is trying to come back to power, but not to make Serbia better, but only for the reason that he would be better off, that he could get rich and continue where he left off in 2012, along with these people from this Multi-Clan, which is to implement what they intended, which leads to the destruction of Serbia and economic and political and to earn another 619m euros that were taken from Serbian citizens only until 2012. The imaginary affairs of Dragan Gilas and his multigroup people are simply trying to cover up the truth, and precisely because they have no answers to key questions. These are the questions that we are asking here, SNS MPs, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is -- how many million Dragan Gilas have earned from reselling a second to RTS, how much money did he put from the commission during the construction of the Bridge on Adi in his pockets? I must say that we, as MPs, are not judges, nor prosecutors, nor police officers, and we cannot make judgments, we cannot arrest, but it is our task to tell Serbian citizens the truth about political and tycoon malversions, above all, Dragan Dilas, people from Multicom Group, Marinika Tepic and others, because they are not martyrs. They're simply rich people who've made a fortune solely on the torture and misfortune of this people. Today, their only goal is, through violence, to bring some colourful revolutions, with the support of foreigners, without the political will of Serbian citizens to power, in order to meet all that they intend to do. It is clear that this is why the people will not, because the citizens are aware that they ruled until 2012, that they have had the opportunity for 12 years to do something for this country and have done nothing. With the support of the citizens of Serbia, we will continue to strengthen our institutions, to improve the rule of law, not to let the mistakes that happened to the former regime happen when we talk about judicial reform from 2010. Citizens today, I believe, may have the highest confidence in our institutions. More, therefore, than ever, it is our job to continue to strengthen our economy, our judiciary, our health care, because when it is strong we can say that we have a strong state. We have succeeded in all areas to strengthen Serbia and our intention is to achieve everything we have promised citizens through the 2025 plan, and it is therefore important that citizens continue to support the SNS, because it is a policy that can guarantee a secure future and that Serbia continues to move on unsustainably. I just want to end my exposure today to give the words of support to the heroic Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and to tell everyone that the new pogroms, the new "Storms" will certainly not be anymore, but not because someone in Pristina does not want it, but because Serbia will never allow it again. Serbia is today incomparably stronger than it was in 2004 and 2008. I hope that Srecko Sofronijević will be okay and that the attacks on Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will stop, and Serbia will always be ready to share fate with its people, however it may be, and I am sure that President Aleksandar Vukic, who is currently with the Serbian people from Kosovo and Metohija, will make the best possible decision with them in the interests of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9732	The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9733	"Why did your bullets go to my children, dream and dream of them, I can't forgive children." With these lyrics, respected chairman Bora Djordjevic from the famous song "I will not forgive you Children" I would start this. Dear People's MPs, I will look back briefly, and this is impossible not to do, to today's suffering of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. So, what's important is that the badly wounded Serb Srecko Sofronijević, who was wounded in the back by Kurti's fascists, dressed in the uniforms of the Kosovo police unit, has been successfully operated, is out of the danger of life, but in a difficult state, in intensive care, but unfortunately, in this criminal action, dozens more Serbs have been injured, meaning rubber bullets, tear gas bullets, bomb bullets, the force of the Kundaks, as they arrived. President Vukic, of course, came lightningly to Raska. He's been to the barracks of our army and the unit of the gendarmes. At the moment, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are at a meeting with an earthquake about what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. President Vukic, I will remind you, earlier, of the last chaos Kurti has caused, said that in the case of a new pogrom, if NATO fails to react, Serbia will react within 24 hours, in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, this is a good thing for statesman Vukic and shows how one responsible man reacts, who cares about his own people. What are they doing at this time, to ask ourselves about those 12 days, as well as those pogroms and attack in Gorazdevec, the 2004 pogroms of the false state of Kosovo and all the attacks, the EU, KFOR, Eulex? What are they doing? Today Borrell issued a brief statement calling for a calming situation and that's all. Did they do something to stop this? Well, they didn't. And in 2004 and after 2004, did Pogrom's finger move to prevent Pogrom and punish those responsible for Pogrom in 2004? No one answered. Simply, extremist Kurti, as he carried out that previous failed action where he simply lost face, knows that something must be done before the October 17th local elections in Kosovo and Metohija, trying to homogenise his electoral body, because it has begun to decline because Kosovo lives as badly as before. He did nothing for the people of Kosovo and Metohija, and above all for Albanians, so now he wants to challenge violence against Serbs. It's best for us to stay cool, not to provoke ourselves, because in fact, it's the only thing he wants, and that's what he's hoping for. What Kurti hoped for, he hoped for what Adolf Hitler had hoped for in 1933, so he did until 1945. Kurti hopes to resolve the final Serbian issue, but hopes to resolve it in the way Adolf Hitler solved it, or tried to solve it, and we know what the results of Adolf Hitler were, and these were World War II and genocide. Now, that's what Kurti wants, and we have at this point a state of Serbia that has done the most for the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija in the last ten years, as well as for other citizens. However, we have been in trouble for the past year that an extremist who pathologically hates Serbs has come to the helm of Kosovo. However, unlike that period until 2012, Serbia is strong today thanks to President Vukic and unique and united. Now I'm going to move on to this point. Of course I welcome the large number of judges that have been proposed, however, colleagues have also pointed out and two colleagues have disputed, I think a total of seven judges have been challenged, which is not exactly an honor to those who have proposed all of this. So it's in any case proof that the judiciary, let me say, is free and now whether it's free of all the pressure and whether it works normally, in this case, here, judge for yourself. But in any case, at the time of Tadic, Gilas and Jeremic's regime, everything was certainly radical, and I will remind you that the regime was decorated in Justice Minister Snezani Malovic, the famous Home, Ristic and former Supreme Court President Nati Mesarovic and carried out the 2009 murder of the judiciary, a crime against the judiciary with the aim of putting him completely under the service of one party, a party, it was the DS. With the help of municipal city committees, the regime carried out a party re-election of judges and cleared the judiciary of those judges and prosecutors who were not at the will of one party to the DS. At that time, about a third of prosecutors and judges were fired illegally and illegally. How's the SNS doing? In 2012, when the Serbian Progressive Party came to power, it returned to work all dismissed judges and prosecutors. Unfortunately, some judges did not welcome it, died, or committed suicide by severe injustice. Five judges committed suicide, and at least twenty judges got sick and died. How and how much justice today feels the consequences of this 2009 destruction that I mentioned, testify and the fact, and it is in direct correlation, because it is precisely about the work of the judiciary, that 54 associates, Dragan Gilas, from the time he was mayor, have been arrested or processed today, on charges that they have all damaged the budget of the city of Belgrade for dozens of millions of euros. That there's something wrong with the judiciary saying that I'm going to openly state that almost no one in 54 has been convicted. I'm telling you it's everybody's fault, everybody. How do I know that? I'm telling you because I'm a city councilman, I've personally convinced myself that I've been a city councilman for 13 years, and I've witnessed everything that Gilas's government has done during those five years from 2008 to 2013. And Gilas today claims that all these 54 people are innocent. Yes, they're innocent as "French maids" and that reminds us of that dark little, perhaps, fairy tale of a new Alibaba Gilas and 54 robbers. I'll name only part of the name of Gilas' 54 co-workers who were arrested. You heard, colleagues mentioned Zvonimir Nikezic, Bojan Milic, former president of Rakovic Municipality, and was arrested by former JKP Director "City Cleanliness" Stamenkovic, and was arrested by Nenad Milenkovic, former President of the Novi Belgrade Municipality, and former President of the Municipality of Mladenovac, was already mentioned by Dejan Čokic, and former President of the Municipality of Surcin Vojislav Janosevic, and former President of the Municipality of Palilula and former assistant Dragan Djilas Danilo Basic. For the end, I left the most famous one who was arrested, whose indictment was confirmed yesterday before the Supreme Court, which is former city manager Djilasov, his former driver at the same time during the time of the NIP, Aleksandar Bijelic, who, along with eight others, was arrested on time for suspicion that during the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar, the abuse of the position, damaged Belgrade City by six million euros. By the way, Whiteman these days, we learned this two years ago, got one fantastic loan, you won't believe it, worth 300,000 euros from Dragan Gilas. At the same time, Bijelic is employed by Dragan Gilas in "Multicom", which just sounds amazing. The senior court confirmed yesterday, so obviously it looks like there's still gonna be one who's guilty, and yet that case, do you know how long it's going to take? That case that I'm talking about now, judicially, lasts eight years, and that's another proof that the judiciary is free, but that something's wrong with it. Look, I still feel like a city councilman how many years ago, in 2010, when Bulevar was reconstructed, it was clear to me that it was a crime. The judiciary can't handle this case for eight years. There's something wrong with the judiciary, but it's not SNS' fault. So, the judiciary must react, in my opinion, and that for four years, the ground in Serbia is being prepared for the violent overthrow of President Vukic's authority. Let's remember, plan A was, I talked about it more than once, the assassination of President Vukic. Plan B was to falsely accuse his brother and force Vukic to resign on that basis, which is all based on that famous affair of Jovanica. Plan C was to be tapped, compromised and replaced by a possible, similar SNS candidate, if any, but hopefully the investigation will show that too. Some of this, I would like to remind you, also confirmed by Sasa Jankovic recently, former Citizens' Protector and former rival President Vukic, who, perhaps a month ago, said that embassies and inner circles have been trying to tear down Vukic from the inside and that they trusted it or had planned it, be careful, that Vukic's heart stopped. Plan A went bad, plan B went bad, plan C went bad, and the consequence of these wild plans is that next year, Gilas and Jeremic will have to go to the polls, after all their plans to come to power without a election. I commend, otherwise, the prosecution, the police and the judiciary for arresting and processing the Belivuk clan. We remember that Gilas and his brothers have been planning and preparing the terrain since 2018 when they start spreading lies about Vukic's fascism. Let's remember those great threats of jilasovians that last for four years, public figures who call for a violent change of government in blood. Look, the final evidence of course surfaced for the arrest of the Belivuk clan when the vast arsenal of weapons was found, among which were one or four, of which two highly professional long-range sniper rifles that did not serve exclusively for terrorism, were not used for robbery, or were those of the Belivuk clan and robbed, but were used for assassination. I will also remind you of these key evidences that have surfaced in the affair of listening to the president, and by chance the president has been listening to only 1,800 times. The third proof is, of course, the "Jovanja" affair. It is interesting that the actors and the listening and the affair "Jovanja" are almost the same. It is clear today that the link between the armed political and police wings of the mafia and terror and the competent judicial authorities and they have to deal with it. Let's remember who has the huge resources to put all this into life. Well, oligarch Gilas has not only that, he has senseless hatred for President Vukic. Let's remember, is oligarch Gilas and is his jukeboxing vice president, are they connected to criminals? Well, they did. And they refuse to ever answer the question of journalists – how do they explain their relationships with criminals? And who are these criminals? So, these are the Japanese government, a White Book person from the Zemun clan, Novak Filipovic, Milutin Bakic, Milan Dabovic and Dusan Jeremic. With all five of these, Marinika and Gilas have series of photographs where they are hugged, smiling in extremely brotherly and close relationships where they are not random faces, but that they are their friends and associates. This Milutin Bakic was the main man of Gilas' party in Kursumlia, and otherwise he was arrested, a small one, with only 66kg of drugs at a time of emergency. Of course there's a political background. And thus, the courts, courts, prosecutors and police would have to deal with the political background of preparing to overturn Vukic. This misdemeanor usually covered four years and covered the dehumanisation of the family and the criminalization of the brother and the older son. Does Andrei and Danilo Vukitch have a shell of rights? Does the family of Alexander Vukic have human rights? How can anyone ignore that the family of President Vukic must be protected as well as the families of Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic. I will remind you of recent cases of dehumanisation, recent attacks by media on the wife and mother of President Vukic. Many colleagues have mentioned this, but I will mention it, since the judiciary and the prosecution and how, I will give the information, how they and why they should deal with it, and this is the discovery of the "Informer" list that taught research journalism to all these Gilasovic media, by discovering that you have been vertasizing papers and finding that Gilas has been paying hundreds of millions of bribes for years, under the form of fictitious loans, all of his journalists, political associates, analysts and the media. It is necessary that the competent authorities of the institution how much is all this that Gilas was doing and "Informer" discovered, how illegal is it? And if it were, they say tax things. I hope the IRS reacts as well. Why? The tax administration also co-operates with the prosecution and the police and the judiciary. We say, about fictitious loans, but they're not returned. According to our tax laws, if it is found that the loan is not returned, it is treated as income on which all the corresponding taxes must be paid. None of the faces, except for the company that isn't listed here at all, only one company has returned a 17 million loan, and out of ten, maybe 50 people who got these fictitious loans didn't return one, and they're all obviously in tax evasion crimes. At the same time, the lender, who has to pay the tax, is Gilas and "Multicoma" and these 50 Gilas borrowers. If Gilas paid for it and paid for it, he confirmed it last Thursday at a press conference, and here he confirmed today that the rodent "Today" and journalist "N1" Dragoljub Petrovic who said – I am not saying that Gilas borrowed money from the media that it is good, the media should not borrow money from any politician, thank him. Says Dragoljub Petrovic – it's kind of a way to avoid another transaction where taxes would be paid, I understand that, the end of quotes. I'm asking the D.A.'s office and the authorities to respond. I'll just remind you that Al Capone didn't fall for all the crimes he committed, but he fell into tax evasion. For the end, at the time of Tadic's government, Gilas, Jeremic, everything was at a humiliating level, and the pinnacle of humiliation was their destruction of the judiciary in 2009. For 12 years, the regime humiliated all citizens of Serbia and Serbia by 2012 was not a decent society. It is now a decent society, and it is a decent society whose institutions do not humiliate the people and citizens of that society, and civilised society is where the citizens of that society do not humiliate each other. Every decent and civilized society is both just society and Serbia today, all of it is. Serbia is strong today and Serbia will protect its citizens at KIM. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9734	The remaining time for the parliamentary group Alexander Vukic – 37 minutes for our children. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9735	I'll try to leave space and time for my fellow MPs. Of course, today I am going to talk about the current situation at KIM, about everything that has been happening and what has caused this situation for the past few months, or several years. I believe that my colleagues from the parliamentary group to whom I belong have told enough about today's agenda topic, have given their suggestions, objections and in one quality way discussed human resources, or proposals that are on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as regards a potential proposal for the selection of judges. What is happening today and what is under way at KIM is just the continuation of a savage policy by representatives of temporary institutions at KIM. Wildlings, I'm free to call them that, the savage hordes have fallen into the north of KIM today. They're just called, their name is ROSU, but in fact it's one of the rational hordes that's by order of the temporary institutions at KIM, or by the order of Albin Kurti, Vjos Osmani and so on. The political summit in Pristina ordered to invade northern Kosovo and wound and hurt dozens of people, unfortunately that our fellow citizen Sofronijević was badly wounded. Fortunately, he is no longer in danger of life, but what I must point out is that President Aleksandar Vukic today is with the state summit and military summit and right now has a meeting with the representatives of the Serbs with KIM and the people, most importantly, with the people of KIM, wishing that, as he did a decade ago, when the crisis occurred when these ROSU units went on again and took over the administrative crossings on Jarinj and Brnjak, to react in a state-run, leadership way and to send a message that we would do everything and that we would give a strong answer to protect our people and our vital national interests in KIM. To this as a state, we have the right as a people and it is simply devastating and it is so loud silence and silence of the International Community and our partners in the EU, especially since our strategic, geopolitical and foreign political goal is full membership in the EU, that Serbia has done so much thanks to President Vukic for regional stability, on the issue of regional co-operation that it is a shame to have this silence of the International Community, that we have silence and on the activities of KFOR, namely NATO in the north of KIM, and in addition to all agreements, in addition to good will, in addition to the hand of the Republic of Serbia, our president, our state authorities and messages that we will be committed to, in spite of everything that happened in previous years, regional stability, regional co-operation and the ideal that President Vukic defined in 2014, when he was Prime Minister, but also to the citizens of the entire region, his first idea of the customs union, when in terms of the Western Balkans, the idea of the Western Balkans, which, the idea of having a common with the political approach, which is a common with the political and the idea of the idea of the economy, which is a common, which is a common, which is the political relationship between the political relationship with the economy. Representatives of the temporary KIM institutions, led by Albin Kurti, who was proven to be a radical extremist, who is not hiding it, have today schnappled in the north of KIM, trying to conceal the fact that several members of the so-called "Current People" were arrested there a few days ago. Islamic States and members of the so-called Tahri Ash Sham, terrorist units fighting, present in the territory of the sovereign state, on the territory of the Arab Republic of Syria. It speaks of it and sends a message that Kosovo is in fact soft for people who perform various criminal and terrorist activities and activities around the world and globally. This is their response to the summit of non-classified people held in Belgrade, which lasted several days, which included representatives of more than 120 countries around the world. Of course, they don't like this Serbian proactiveity, they don't like Serbia's diplomatic offensive, they don't like that you don't have to be very politically subdued to know much about foreign policy relations that you know what the message is, and the message is that Serbia is going to fight harder, even harder to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country, to get more and more support, that from this summit of non-classified people held here in Belgrade, some new support will be produced on the 60th anniversary, some new suspensions of recognitions so-called. Kosovo. They, of course, have no political response to diplomatic offensive, not having a political response to diplomatic skills and leadership of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic, are trying to provoke us, trying in a brutal way to get Serbia into a conflict of broader proportions, which, of course, we will not fall for that kind of provocation. In any case, we can show how much progress we've made over the past few years, how strong our economy is, how powerful our army is. They had the opportunity for everyone in the world to see and the arms fair that took place and which still lasted at the Belgrade Fair and they all had the opportunity to make sure that Serbia is able today and has full capacity and full integrity to defend their territory and, in particular, to defend their people and absolutely, what President Vukic has been saying for years, we will not allow, and that is true, and that is something that we defend here as SNS in parliament, no pogrom that happened in 2004, we will not allow in 2008, we will not allow any "Blash", we will never allow "Storm", as if we were doing no more action of such a type after which Serbia was a tail, after which we have had the sea and rivers of refugees of the Serb people, our people, who came to Serbia, defeated, banished, killed, never to work not for the 20th or 21st century, but as if we lived in some period of the Middle Ages, where it was possible and wanted their resources, when they were necessary for their territory. I'll tell you one now, I can call it an anecdote, and that happened in 2006. Namely, at the time of the current US Senator Jim Inhof, who today was President of the Committee for Military Affairs and Weapons in the US Senate, one of the most influential people in the US Senate, visited Belgrade, Serbia and then had an opportunity to speak to the blissful Metropolitan Amphilochy and asked him what he thought about the situation of KIM, what kind of opinion it is, to describe the situation there, and the blissful beginning of the Metropolitan Amphilochy answered him: "To Kim Christ is still crucified and Christ is still bleeding. If he's bleeding somewhere and he's being crucified somewhere, it's Kim." One simple answer, human answer, but the answer that answers all possible questions regarding what's going on and what's happening to Kim. In the 21st century, in this so-called. to modern, liberal Europe, what happens is that a nation suffers, gets killed, is destroyed monasteries, churches, cultural and historical heritage, exclusively for the reason that the Christian people, which is an Orthodox people. And that should be said openly in today's modern, liberal Europe, which, of course, sometimes bothers Alexander Vukic when he says he will protect his people and when he shows it in action, in the field, and we, of course, strongly and strongly support it. But they are also bothered by Orban, and the President of Poland is bothered by all those who say that what is normal and logical is the interests of their people and the interests of all interests long before all other political and economic integrations that are very important. As our President Aleksandar Vukic says today in talks with the people of KIM, the Serb people, we will fight alone. We ourselves have come to this and to this level to be enough and economically and military and in every other way strong, so that we can at least go out and tell the public the truth, to say that we have both resources and capacity to protect our people in KIM and that, of course, in the coming period, we will fight to protect it maximumly, since these representatives of temporary institutions absolutely have no intention, and we simply need to be open and clear, to lead any dialogue, to want any peaceful solution. You can imagine talking to them about the free flow of goods, people, capital, business, growth of gross domestic product. It's light years away from these people, who are each day in their heads and the main goal of their national and what hurts most is that North KiM. I guess they can't hold back ten or fifteen days to show that it's exclusively their political goal and that their political goal is to drive out the few Serbs left on KIM from their homes, from their hearths today under a company to fight some smuggling or organised crime. A few years ago, two years ago, when they came in, they beat their grandparents, they beat them out of their homes, but finally Serbia is so strong and so strong and so bold and has enough dignity to say what's really going on in KIM and say it works in a way to protect our interests and protect our people living in KIM territory. That job and that task will be very difficult. I also have to mention one letter from the representatives of the so-called Albanian, miloor and Bosniak, respectively, Bosnian diaspora in the United States, Senate, Congress, State Department, American President and White House. It is a coordinated action aimed at disabling Serbia on the international agenda and what in that letter, which I do not have time to read now, nor deserves so much of our attention here, but I want to send a message for our citizens and to say how true this claim is that, in addition to all the commitment to regional co-operation, in addition to all the peace we show in the previous period, Serbia is not strong. Not good, it bothers Serbia, which is the centre of the world geopolitically, when representatives of 120 countries come here. It disturbs Serbia, which strategically, where representatives of the countries come here, and it should be noted and told publicly, the countries that are missing members of the Security Council, which were here in Belgrade. I'll point out what the states are, it's Vietnam, it's Tunisia, it's Niger, it's Mexico. All these representatives of all these countries are our representatives of the Foreign Ministry and the president of our country has spoken. They are now bothered by the fact that these countries and representatives of these countries are coming to Serbia, the stronger Serbia, the greater GDP growth this year than 7%, and would likely provoke us, to drag us into a new conflict where all that Aleksandar Vukic, along with his colleagues and fellow SNS colleagues, would create our coalition partners all these years to throw it in the water. Of course we won't do it, but we won't and we don't want to lose our dignity. I am sure that President Aleksandar Vucic will, in the next few hours and in the next few days, take strategically important moves that will protect our people in KIM, which will lead to never again these ROSU units, that never again these false, false provisional institutions in KIM can make such an act of aggression aimed at killing, hurting and exorcising innocent people just because they belong to one people and only because I want to act specifically, just because they are Christians. Is this, Mrs. Kovac, you well know, Hungary has an office dealing with the persecution of Christians around the world. It is a very important and very important institution in the Hungarian society and in the Hungarian state. We know that our friends from Hungary have sensitivity for us, although Hungary has admitted so-called. Kosovo, but we know who Hungary's first partner is in this part of Europe, we know who Hungary's first partner is in the Western Balkans, but we are in a situation now that we can say what problems are and that we are simply working together with our partners on this, and that we are telling everyone that we will strengthen our army even more, that we have no problem saying it, not because we want any conflict or any conflict, but because we would never again in history, as we unfortunately allowed our own guilt from 2000 to 2012, that no one would ever wipe our country's path again. Serbia is not a handful of teeth that whoever it wants and whoever comes to mind it's a tooth. Serbia today is a serious country, a country with dignity, a reliable partner. What he says in Moscow, Alexander Vukic speaks in Beijing, speaks in Washington, speaks in Brussels, speaks in Berlin. So, we are a serious country and I am sure and I want to send a message that SNS MPs, I am sure that my friend and distinguished colleague as head of the Parliament club, Aleksandar Martinovic, agree to send a strong message, strong support to our President, Alexander Vukic, in the fight for our territorial integrity, in the fight for our people. We'll never give up. Giving up is not an option thanks to our president who leads this country in a strong, serious and dignified way, and we will never leave our people at KIM in the lurch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9736	Thank you. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is 13 minutes. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9737	Thank you, Chairman. I'm going to try really hard to be as short as I can to get as many of my fellow MPs on the list behind me to talk, I'm thinking primarily of Professor. Mark Atlagic, whom I greatly respect and appreciate. When we talk about the proposed solutions for the judicial functions, I will define myself as my fellow MPs so that I will give support in the voting day for most proposed candidates, although I absolutely support all that argument when it comes to the contested candidates, which we will declare in particular. Unfortunately, today's session of the National Assembly at which we are discussing the election proposal, which is first elected to the judge's office, goes into a difficult atmosphere, especially difficult for Serbs in northern Kosovo and Metohija who are once again subject to brutal attacks by members of ROSU, and this is who knows which time Kurti is already using various and new false excuses to send so-called. The police, so-called. or these false states of Kosovo, to the teeth of an armed special forces of the naked Serb people in northern Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, today we have more injured, than one severely injured for whose life doctors are still fighting, Srecko Sofronijević of Zvecan, it is a young man who was shot with his back today, and here's what it looks like. This is a picture of that wound. This is a photo of Happy Sofronievic's back from where the bullet was taken. And this is a picture of Kosovo and Metohija today. This is a picture of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija for which it is solely Albin Kurti and his senseless politics and crazy, I would say, an obsession with northern Kosovo and Metohija. It's a real picture of the Pristina government. I have to ask, and what did Srecko Sofronijević do to deserve something like this? What's Happy Sofronievic's fault? What did Srecko Sofronijević do to earn a bullet a cat, from behind? I'll tell you what's wrong, he's guilty because he's a Serb. It is only Sreko Sofronijević's fault that he is a Serb. That's when, at the head of a false state, you have a man who's willing to do anything, absolutely at all, even for a huge bloodshed just to say, for the sake of his sick political ambitions. It is particularly problematic that no one from the so-called so-called president is. international communities don't advertise. No one, no EU, no KFOR, no NATO, nothing, the vow of silence is in play. Here, I ask them now if you will answer as you have so far by sending a hypocritical message as you appeal to both sides to refrain from violence and as you appeal to both sides in the direction of desecration of conflict, here, I ask them, please don't even advertise, keep quiet, we'll be better off. So we're fed up with your messages inviting both sides to refrain from violence. But everyone should know the chairman, that today's Serbia is not the weak one Serbia from the past, is not the one Serbia that has seen and watched various and numerous persecutions and the pogroms of its people on its knees. Today's Serbia will not allow these and such persecutions and pogroms. Today's Serbia will protect its people, as my colleague said earlier. Don't think we won't, don't think we won't and don't underestimate us. Don't provoke us, don't make us show that we can and will and that we've solved and done it. Just please don't push us to that last option. And, if I know, the chairman, that Serbia's leadership, first of all, I think of the president of the state of Alexander Vukic, who has reacted with lightning this morning and gone to Raska to meet with our people with KIM, to listen for hours to each individual Serb with KIM, to hear their torment and to find a solution to this emerging crisis, and is still there, if I am not mistaken, still with the Serbs with KIM, and I am sure that as always, as the ultimate responsibility and the state will act and find a solution to this crisis in a way of preserving peace, in a way of preserving stability. So, preserving peace and preserving stability is imperative, a key thing. So, the precondition for any progress, but that doesn't mean any moment that we're going to allow new Storms, that we're going to allow new pogroms, 17 March 2004 etc. You won't be watching that movie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9738	Thank you. The remaining time is seven minutes. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9739	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry I don't have a little more time, but let me say, first of all, that I will support my fellow choice of judges, except for those indisputed. Right away, the 2012 judiciary was one of the worst in Europe. That was one of the worst activities in our country. But now it's still on a certain level, we've reached, it's going to take a lot of water to get past Sava and Danube to get the judiciary to the level we want. Let me say a few sentences only that the judiciary was in such a situation, as colleagues said, that the best judges and prosecutors were fired. The exact number is 837 prosecutors and judges. The best at the time. Imagine that the chairman of the Supreme Council of the judiciary was then Nata Mesarovic. Who is this person? Now it appears these days, just the person who implemented the judicial reform in 2008 to 2012 together with Boris Tadic, Gilas, Jeremic, and others, and precisely the person who spent 200 hours on talks for judges at the time. Look at the wonders, she talked and chose a dead judge, Ljubisha Djuric of Požega. It's not known in the history of the judiciary. So, colleagues have already said, it's also that six judges died of injustice then, and one committed suicide. That's what the official part is about. However, other information is not officially available. What is important, and that is to say that the number of cases solved in 2010, when they implemented Đilas, Jeremic and Tadic's judicial reform, was 1.725.271 for comparison, when our authority came to the solved cases was 2.549.000,000. Almost 800,000.00 more. There's a difference between the reforms they've implemented. I will say only one sentence that the European Commission that followed the reform during Tadic, Jeremic, and Djilas, says the reform that took place in Serbia was, quote, the worst possible thing, a quote. Here's what's very important. Let me quote one quote: " Modernisation is a key point for Serbia in the next decade, regardless of whether we are talking about economic reforms, the judiciary, reforms of the health system, or reforms of the education system. “ Who do you think said that? So President Aleksandar Vucic, in his exhibition to elect the Prime Minister on 27 April 2014, and then we have a second exposé on 9 August 2016, which was the most transparent, largest, most comprehensive of all exposures in Serbia's modern history. Why am I saying that? Ladies and gentlemen, I have them here with me, these exposés, let the opposition find me anything that isn't realized by large systems, and they joked with us, here opposition MPs when we talked about the pipeline and he passed, now he's saving in the Elektroprivreda and the Elektrosystem, in general in our country's energy. Let me say in the end, however, about KIM, it is not by chance that respected citizens continue the constant media Satanization of President Vukic and his family, as well as today, just as this is happening in Kosovo. In a daily list under the control of Dragan Gilas, behold, this daily paper does not come out in Serbia, it comes out in our neighbouring country, and it is crawling in today's number of lies and fictions, of the lowest nature, which our people would say, from the bottom of the kaka. Look at the wonders, they attacked Alexander Vukic today because he is the most responsible for building and completing the Temple of St. Sava on Vracara, the most beautiful Orthodox buildings and temple in the world, because he helps build many monasteries and many gods and they have attacked, looking at miracles in parallel to today's SPC, and a blessed holiday irine and now his sanctity of the current Serbian patriarch and attacked the SPC, just coordinating in this country where the list of Podgorica, Sarajevo, and Kurtija are coming out today, at the same time, and I ask you, the honourable MPs, please look over that list, so it will all be clear to you. The paper agreed to attacks with a member of parliament's neighbouring country just where the paper comes out, which every day under the control of Dragan Gilas and the list of attacks that MP in the neighbouring country, SPC, believed or not, every seven minutes and Alexander Vukic, that the SPC, a large Serb, is a criminal etc. So, connect it, we have it in Zagreb, we have it in Sarajevo, we have it in Podgorica and in some other countries and, of course, Kurtija in Pristina, and our Tadic, Jeremic, and I have already quoted others as saying that they advocated Kosovo's future. While Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and others daily attack Alexander Vukic and the state of Serbia, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, until then our president tries every possible way and successfully implements the policy of peace, security and health policy of all our citizens, and the policy of the very modernisation that I quoted in that exhibition, and now we have gone further, since last year we are implementing Serbia's accelerated modernisation policy, the engine is Alexander Vukic. And finally, I ask all my former students, colleagues, professors, acquaintances, all the educators, gentlemen of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, please as God, be vaccinated, vaccine, vaccine, vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9740	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9741	Thank you, Vice President. I will not at the beginning of my discussion say what colleagues have already said when it comes to the agenda, I will speak completely past the agenda, fully consciously, not speaking to you. We all think the same thing in this room today. There's no dilemma. That's what you all said and thank you for, speaking first of all to those who were scared for a reason and those who were silent for no reason. One fears a strong, legitimate state in the Western Balkans that is the leader. The others are silent because they don't have an adequate answer for those who paid them to keep quiet. Serbia is today, and my colleague Aca Markovic said, I have nothing to add, much stronger than it was when the pogrom happened. Serbia today is a state that will not allow the pogrom. Those who remain silent about the terrible situation that is happening today in northern Kosovo and Metohija have that awareness. I'm not surprised that Albin Kurti collects votes before the local elections, by attacking Serbs with a special unit of ROSA. The only thing Albin Kurti can do is improvise, attack bloodied, attack at dawn, attack under full arms a people who are naked, a people who are unprepared, a people who are not guilty of anything. I'm not surprised that the international community doesn't react either, one serious percentage of them made that quasi formation and brought Albin Kurti to power. I'm surprised by another thing, that they didn't realize that across the way from the Serbian people, people with tradition and history, people whose president has no problem at all at the moment when you whistle the most heavy weapon over the naked people comes down to the administrative line, not because they can't cross it, I know there will be a comment behind this that will accuse Alexander Vukic of why to Raska, not Mitrovica. I know there's going to be room for political points here, but on the other hand, I know something else, without the ambition to talk about anyone here, I'm just trying to get back to remembering all the victims for the past 20 years, but more. The structure of the people who defended Kosovo and Metohija has not changed as it could and how long it could. We used to defend it from us, once from Albanians, once from all over the world, sometimes from some of our own who have tried to make any kind of deal for some dollars, and that, unfortunately, has been repeating for decades back, maybe intensely for the past 20 years. We have shown today that as a state we are determined not to let that people satanize us. True, we've shown one more thing, and that's that you won't provoke in us what dry, emotional thing each of us would do today. I don't have a dilemma that there's no one in this room who wouldn't be naked today, but that's not the solution. Then we'd be the aggressors again for what they declared us to be, then we'd be some kind of wild people who were oppressing someone, so they'd hand over every future president to some kind of court where they'd somehow judge him or eventually kill him. That's the movie we saw. But that doesn't mean we'll keep our mouths shut if you decide to kill us. And that means one more thing, I only have one request for all of you who are now in the Serbian Parliament's hall -- Lucky, a Serb, whose name says you can't kill him from behind. You can't kill Serbs from behind, even though you're used to it. You cannot destroy the people who have defended all of Europe. It's lucky, thank God alive and will survive this masculine nation. And let him hear applause for himself from here, not for what I said, because what I said can also be treated as political and extremely emotional. I don't even know where I can speak from, but I ask you that we end this session by not applauding them, but having the awareness that the MPs of the Republic of Serbia are always standing with their president, the government, the president of the Assembly, the people of the southern Serbian province, the people of the northern Serbian province, the people of central Serbia, because Serbia is unique and comprehensive in spite of all the pressures you put on us to agree to anything that is not so. This today is the kind of pressure to agree to your rotten compromises, to your concepts, to your maps, to your broken borders that you promised someone, whether because of the mining wealth of Kosovo, whether because of the money they gave you in the past, whether because of the money they earned from organ trafficking. Albin Kurti is the last in a chain to try to carry out all the evils that are possible against Serbs precisely because he thinks you owe him because the money has long been taken away from you by a prisoner of Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj who has declared the bloodline of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-13-0.u9742	Thank you. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I conclude a single search into the draft decision. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[Session interrupted at 17.40 p.m.]]
