ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6212	I thank the President of the Assembly. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, citizens of Serbia, before I ask questions first, I will take the opportunity to congratulate Gjurdjevdan on all our Orthodox believers, with the desire to celebrate the glory in health, happiness and joy and this year to be born and noble to them. As it is said, from Jurdjevdan, when the weather is good, the year will be little and worse, and if it rains, the year will be born and noble. So today we see both the sun and the rain, so this year will surely be born, noble, and, as we say, in the field and in the house. Once again, my friends, brothers and sisters, happy birthday to you. Now I'd like to ask you a few questions. Dear President of the Assembly, issues concern specifically local self-government, problems. First of all, I'm going to bring up a few things, and this might as well be a question to the government. In particular, the problem of expropriation. When expropriation is done in local self-government, normally, the government's consent is obtained, but in the context of land expropriation, everything can be done for public property purposes. Building homes of health, cultural centres, building schools, building buildings, building road infrastructure, construction of plumbing, sewers, these are all things that are within public property and the need for this, for example, local self-government. I would like to do so here, and in the coming period, as an MP, to propose a bill of amendment, that the possibility and construction of an industrial zone or an industrial zone be put in the context of the expropriation law, because there is no such possibility, and there is a great need. Let's just say, in particular, there are a lot of these small local self-governments that were very developed in the last century. In the 1990s, by 2000, they had more workers than the population itself. It was, for example, a specific community where I came from. After the disastrous privatisation of the social firm, the privatization has been bought, done, and now the municipality has no pedal of a free country to offer tomorrow to an investor, and we have interested investors who, for example, would come to us in Srljig, and I am sure that there are such municipalities in other parts of our Republic of Serbia. The Expropriation Act needs to be changed to include the construction of an industrial zone. That'll be my suggestion. Question to the Government – will the government's activities in the coming period be able to change this law and put it there that it can also be an industrial or industrial zone within the framework of the Expropriation Act, that local self-government can, under the Expropriation Act, buy the country, put it into office and be in a accelerated system such as for other matters of public interest within the framework of local self-government? It's one question and it's very important for the development of our local self-government. The second question is so-called. The law on conversion or the law on the conversion of rights of use into property rights on construction land with compensation. Since we're witnesses, I've said this before, how many privatisations were done to harm both local self-government and workers, it was done until 2000. We have examples, specifically, in Belgrade, there was a privatization of a hall that was 400, 500 square meters, and that hall had close to 20 acres of land, maybe somewhere in the center, maybe a pasture or something. Now, what's going on? Since the owner who had the opportunity, had political ties, bought the facility, he has the priority to take it, regardless of what the facility is, say, 500 square meters, 20, 30 acres of land, he has the priority to buy it. At the very least, he is initiating the country's conversion process and has priority. And there's a situation that the same facility, bought someone during privatisation or bankruptcy, has the same facility 500, 600 or 1,000 or 2,000 square meters, has close to five, six acres or 15, 20 or 50 hectares of land that are within that facility, and he doesn't want to go into the conversion process, or translation from that right to property, to be his. He doesn't want to. That way it can go on forever. He uses the country, the real one, what he needs to do, and the local self-government of the country has no chance tomorrow, since there are interested investors, that country cannot function. My question is, will it be possible to enter into the process to change the country's conversion law? I'm going to make that point, because it's a big need, because we have a lot of local self-governments that have objects that somebody bought, not a country to that facility, but only a country that's under the building, and that country, doesn't want to get into the conversion process, but that country uses it without compensation, and let's say, local self-government has the possibility of bringing in an investor who wants to work tomorrow, because there's water and sewerage there, there's electricity, but they can't do it out of local self-government because the Converting Act doesn't define the time interval for which that owner who bought that facility to get that country into the conversion process. My question is – will we be able to change that law and put the date exactly how long does it take to get into the conversion process? Unless the owner does so, the unit of local self-government or the state of Serbia should do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6213	The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6214	I would like to ask the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group. The question I would refer to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management is related to the problem of the so-called The shepherds' nests. For many years, the same problem has been repeated primarily in the territory of North-West-West-West-West-West-West-West-West County. The shepherds in search of the pasture with their herds enter other people's meadows, pastures and crops and cause enormous damage. Unfortunately, although the competent institutions are familiar with the problem, no co-ordinated response by the competent services and inspections has been reached so far. I hope that by bringing this problem to the representatives of the Ministry together, we will come to an effective and coordinated response. In that sense, I'd like to ask two questions. The first question – is there a way for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management to form and coordinate the handling of competent services and inspections to address this problem effectively and in order to take care of the safety of people and cattle? The second question – is there any way to help farmers and companies whose fields are being damaged by the shepherd's nest, and can they count on state aid and compensation for damages? I'm aware that many behave in the maxi of which his herd is also a meadow, but I believe that it is not the case with us in Bačka and that the tradition of chobanic disrespect for other people's property must be interrupted. For example, in this winter in the Catastar municipality of Pacir, where I live, a herd of about two thousand sheep has caused enormous damage. To the most extent, the damage has been done to thousands of hectares processed by "Matijević agrar", but no minor damage has been done on private parcels either. The herds that came to the pasture in the Pachirska Athar are not from our municipality, they are neither from our district nor being harassed without the permission of competent services and inspections. Of course, this is not the first case that hundreds of sheep are being harassed during winter and spring, primarily in the territory of the Dukean municipalities. It happens that after the departure of nomadic shepherds in the fields, farmers find and die animals, which opens up additional problems, because it is not known whether these animals died because of the disease, so they can be the source of the disease for both our sheep and our cows. How do competent services act in practice? In the municipality of Backo Topola, there is an agricultural service, but this service must not react independently, but only in coordination with the police and inspection and, when the police and the agricultural services respond, the shepherds choose meadows near the municipal borders and exaggerate the flock of one on the territory of the other municipality and thus last for days and weeks. The rules say that the shepherds do not have the right to stay in one's country with their stages without a signed permit from the owner of the plot and that they must have a certificate of health of the herd, and the verification of those certificates is within the jurisdiction of the veterinary inspection. In cases of pestilence of other people's herds on the territory of the municipality of Backo Topol, the shepherds, in my information, did not in any case have and did not possess the prescribed documentation and authorisation. There have been such cases in our municipality and in the territory of the local communities of Mali Belgrade and Gornja Rogatica. I understand that the choban's deficit interest, so according to the National Employment Service only in Serbia is missing about 300 cattle guards, and half of that number, about 150, is considered to be a burning shortage. I also believe that, like any profession, a shepherd must respect the rules in preserving public health and human safety, preserving the environment and, above all, respecting the inviolability of private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6215	Thank you. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6216	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, my question will be very brief and concrete, under the circumstances that I spoke and reminded the public yesterday, and all of us, of our Milos Cirkovic. I am asking the question today, in fact, more like an appeal to the Minister of State Administration and local self-government to support the initiative that the city of Belgrade, as the capital of the Republic of Serbia, should one street of Milos Cirkovic and thus show that we have respect for someone who is, above all, synonym for the Serbian host and then also for the victim. Not that I wouldn't have much more to say on the subject today, but I don't want to get bored with that story about an innocent man, but I believe you're all sharing with me an attitude that deserves a street in the city of Belgrade. Maybe he deserves a street in every city and not just him, but all the people who have thus marked a time age and entered history as victims, and that tomorrow we can explain to the children why we thus respected the people who were victims of the entire Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6217	Thank you. The word is Milenko Jovanov.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6218	My question is, the esteemed president and respected colleagues, sent to the state authorities responsible for conducting an investigation into these accounts that were found abroad on behalf of Dragan Gilas or his companies, and I want to ask – is there anything going on in this matter and when can we expect concrete results from these investigations? Why would I ask that? Because yesterday, Dragan Gilas had a need to address the public and what he said actually shows that he intends to continue where he left off. So he doesn't think that anywhere he went wrong, he doesn't think that he did anything wrong, he doesn't think that what he did while he was in power to his firms, thanks to the position in the government he had, has secured a 619m-euro income. So he doesn't think it's wrong. He doesn't think he should do it anymore, but he thinks he should go back to power tomorrow and pick up where he left off. So, at 620, 630, 650, 700, 800, a billion euros of our money until it picks up, and then it dissipates who bites seeds all over the world about five, about ten, and I guess in the hope that no one will catch it. Why does this matter and why do I ask the state authorities? Because sanctions make a man think about what he was doing. So the sanctions for the work done, on the other hand, have a preemptive character, so some other people are thinking about whether they should do it or not, because they're going to be punished. Since there is no sanctions, we see that he, a man, is seeking, and these are his requirements in this conversation, which you, the president, are leading, therefore, one national frequency for your television. Why would he need a national frequency? So he can resell seconds. From the whole story of what the political system looks like in Serbia, how in Serbia the political system is like this or what is missing, we have come to the point that Gilas needs a national frequency to resell seconds. It's his idea to re-occur with this business to put aside, but to put aside the entire budget, call, opposition parties, because they're no longer political parties by their own definition, not by organisation, not by the support of citizens, these so-called. The leader, so that they all work together to get the national frequency, to resell seconds. So now they're all working for "Multicom" or as his companies are already called, that is, their political wing led by Dragan Gilas and through politics trying to make it possible for themselves and its companies to make revenues. That's what the problem is. That's what's the problem with this society that people like that for everything they've done don't get sanctioned, if that's what happens, and I hope it doesn't happen, but it's an important message for the citizens. They visit Serbia these days, have a campaign of their own and talk about how they imagine the day after. Here you are, my fellow citizens, imagining the day after. Just like he looked the day before. So, "Multicom" or his companies, as they are called, reselling seconds, Gilas is full of pockets, and then the money's going to Mauritius, and that's the whole idea, that's the whole campaign, that's the whole project, and you see that there's no P of politics, that there's no political program, that there's no political ideas, but just let's get into a position to recharge our pockets. Now, that's why the state authorities have to react and the state authorities are obliged to send a response to the public as soon as possible, did Gilas honestly earn 68 million dollars he sown around the world, a little bit in Hong Kong, a little in Mauritius, a little in Switzerland, a little in Bosnia, a little in Moldova? So, is it all fair or not? If he is, I congratulate him on being 100% minus 20% plus 20% minus 20%, and that's all his genius brain is able to calculate, because nobody else in Serbia has been able to calculate it, because nobody else has managed to make 619 million euros, so that we all give ourselves to learn percentages and figure out percentages by heart, that we are millionaires too. And if that's not the case, and Gilas didn't make money by taking 100% plus 20% minus 20% plus 20%, etc., then answering no one else in Serbia to rob Serbian citizens of taking that money out of the country and making fun of their faces on television with national frequencies, telling them how, that only one more television needs to be, that he has television on the national frequency, that he hangs on it all day long, but not to send political messages but to resell seconds. So, as far as this investigation is concerned, are we finally going to see the epilogue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6219	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending Hadzhi Milorad Stosic, Jelisaveta Veljkovic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic and Borisav Kovacevic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions from the point. The 8th and 9th agenda. I will remind you once again that today we will discuss the choice of judges and in the afternoon debates in particular on the proposal for a law on culture and anti-doping in sport, and that there will be a vote afterwards. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that he has been invited to attend the session of Aleksandar Pantic, an election member of the High Council of Judges. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on the motion for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office and a motion for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. I'm guessing the motionary's gonna say something. Here you go, Mr. Pantico.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6220	Dear President, honourable MPs, you have two motions for a decision on the election of judges who are elected to the judge's office, which was submitted by the High Council of the judiciary on 9 April 2021. The first proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected to the judge's office is a proposal announced in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, No 83/20 of 10 June 2020 on the basis of Article 47. The law on judges. The ad announced the choice of judges for the Vranj Criminal Court, the Vrsac Criminal Court, Loznica, Novi Pazar, Novi Sad, Paracino, Piroth, Pozarevac, Prokuplje, Raška, Rumi, Senti, Sjenica, Smedereva, Subotica, Trstenik, Čačka and the Main Court in the Great Plana. The High Council of the Court of Justice has carried out an overall procedure assessing the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates, on the basis of the provisions of the Law on Judges, Regulations, criteria and criteria for the assessment of professionalism, competence and dignity for the selection of judges and the Rules on the programme and the method of laying down examinations assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. The High Council of the judiciary has, as always, formed its commission on 2 June 2020, which conducted the procedure for assessing the qualifications and expertise of candidates who are first proposed for the judicial post. Thus, on 15 October 2020, the Commission conducted an examination for candidates for judges who were first elected and who applied for the selection of judges for misdemeanor courts. The examination was conducted on the basis of the Programme Regulation and the method of passing the exams, which assesses the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. On the next day, on 16 October 2020, an exam was conducted for candidates who were first elected and who applied for the Main Court in the Great Plan and who did not have an earlier evaluation from the basic courts exams. So, a special exam has been conducted for misdemeanor courts, because these are different questions, and a special exam is for candidates who have applied for the Supreme Court in the Great Plan. For the first time, candidates who have been elected to a judicial office who have completed initial training at the Judicial Academy have been given a final assessment in initial training at the Judicial Academy, which is in accordance with Article 45a. Article 3 The law on judges. After the examination was conducted, the Commission held a conversation with all candidates, established a list of candidates for each court in particular, and the list of candidates was immediately published on the website of the High Council of Justice. Complete material from the examinations was delivered by the Commission to the High Judicial Council. So, the Commission's task was to assess the expertise and training of candidates to perform the judicial function. The High Council of the Judiciary shall then, in accordance with the provision of Article 49. The Law on Judges, obtained data and opinion on the expertise, skills and dignity of candidates, from the authorities and organisations in which candidates worked in legal affairs. For the candidates who came from the court, the opinion of all the judges of the court in which the candidate works and conducts the sessions of all judges directly to the High Court was delivered. In addition, for candidates coming from the order of judicial assistants, an evaluation of their work has been provided, so that the High Council of the judiciary has carried out a complete procedure for assessing the training, expertise and dignity of candidates for the election to a judicial post. Following the conduct of the whole procedure, the High Judicial Council is based on Article 13(3). Law on the High Council of the judiciary, as regards Article 51(1). The law on judges, held at a session on 30 March 2021, established a proposal for a decision to elect judges and proposed a selection of 27 candidates to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of those 27 candidates, 26 were proposed for misdemeanor courts and one candidate for the Supreme Court in the Great Plan. The list of proposed candidates is in your materials. There are also their biographies, so I will not repeat what you are already familiar with from the material delivered to the National Assembly. The second draft VSS decision refers to the proposal for a decision on the advert declared in the "Official Messenger" No 83/20 of 10 June 2020 and the ad was announced by the selection of judges for basic courts in Brus, Bujanovac, Velika Plana, Veliko Gradište, Vranja, Dimitrovgrad, Zrenjanin, Književec, Kruševec, Kursumlija, Lazarjevac, Nis, Pančevo, Paracina, Požega, Prepolje, Raški, Sijenica, Smedereva, Subotici and Šapac. The High Council of the judiciary carried out the same procedure as under the previous ad. So, the same is the established commission of the VSS, which first carried out a review of the applications submitted, to determine their well-timedness, well-being and completeness, and then passed the examination for judges who were first elected to the judicial office and who did not have an assessment of the exams for the grounds of the courts. The examination was conducted on 16 October 2020. The same interview was then held with all candidates, including candidates who completed initial training at the Judicial Academy, and after exams and talks, a special list of candidates for each court was made, published on the VSS website and then delivered to the VSS. For these candidates, the High Council of the Court has obtained information and opinions on the expertise and competence of the candidates, who have applied for judicial office, and this opinion has been obtained by the authorities and organisations in which the candidate has worked on legal matters, and for the candidates in the order of the Judges' Assistants, an assessment of the work has been obtained, as well as the opinion of the General Session of all the Judges in which the candidate and the General Sessions of the Judges shall be held directly by the Court of Justice. So that, following the complete procedure of verifying and assessing the fulfilment of the conditions for the selection of judges, i.e. after verifying the competence and dignity of the candidates, the High Judicial Council established at its session held on 18 and 23 March 2021 a proposal for a decision to elect judges and proposed a total of 89 candidates for those courts for which the choice of judges was announced. Here in the materials you have all the proposals of the High Council of the Judiciary, meaning the names and names of all the proposed candidates, their short biography, what matters and what affects your decision on the choice of judges. So I'm not going to repeat here what you have in your materials again, because you've also come to know the names of the proposed candidates and their biographies. I believe that the High Council of the Judiciary has conducted the procedure fully in accordance with the law and that such a procedure provides sufficient guarantees that all proposed candidates are professional, qualified and worthy of the exercise of judicial office, so I would suggest that the MPs of the National Assembly support the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary and vote in favour of the proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6221	I thank Mr Pantic. Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? If not, do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the vice president of the National Assembly, academician Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6222	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representative and member of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, elect a judge, or choose a judge, means to show him the highest degree of respect and trust, give him the opportunity to deal with human destiny during his career. The trial is one of the most honorable roles a person can play in his life, because a judge judges, judges, makes decisions of importance for human lives, for their personal, property and other rights. The judgments very often affect people in life. Many judgments depend on life, or many things in life. Therefore, the election of judges, no matter how ordinary, procedural activity may seem at all levels, and especially here in the National Assembly, must never lose the spirit of emotion, the importance of the choice of the judge, or the responsibility of each of us MPs who will give our vote for or against. It's just as important, equally responsible when we decide to give someone a chance to be a judge, as well as when we decide to deny someone that chance, and he was, or he became a candidate. So I would also ask the MPs today to approach this business extremely responsibly, to take advantage of each and every last chance for each candidate to have true and real information, so that our decisions made by voting are primarily correct, but just as we would have a peaceful conscience to the end in making such decisions. True, it is not easy for us Members of the public to have an insight into every candidate no matter what we get the materials, no matter what opportunity we have to see that procedural dimension of that material, we get the form, we get that the candidate has gone through whatever it takes, met the formal conditions, passed the necessary tests at the academy, got the consent of certain competent authorities and finally came before us to the National Assembly for final decision-making. However, as we have the opportunity to give consent in the procedure of making the proposal both positive and negative views, that is to say, decisions to hear both positive and negative views and to make positive and negative decisions, this means that as long as we have not made the final decision, there is the possibility of correcting a possible wrong attitude or a wrong decision, whether it is a proposal for someone to be elected or a position to be challenged. I am particularly offered what I have received from information that has been made public at certain forums, or committees in the National Assembly, especially when it comes to the selection of two judges, one from Sjenica and one from Novi Pazar. So, I understand and by doing this job, as well as other important jobs, it is clear to me that, in addition to what is formal procedure in proposing and taking views on one candidate and giving the necessary consent to that candidate, it is understandable that for such important, as well as other functions and positions in the country itself, there is also another less formal party that can influence or influence the choice of candidates, which is called security checks and all that can be done through this aspect of analysis and the availability of information to be of influence. It is understandable and logical that the state will always deal with it. After all, it is the responsibility of the country's security and intelligence organisations. That's not a problem in principle. It is an integral part of the process of selecting important people, i.e. the choice of judges, as well as other people for important functions and responsibilities in the country itself. What's the focus of my request and requests to you is that we always insist on evidence first and foremost. If we want to support someone, we need proof of why. If we want to challenge someone, we also need proof of why. Surely, where there is serious evidence, whether safe or otherwise, it is logical that one cannot insist on being accepted, or chosen as a judge, but what has drawn attention to me, among other things, are certain voices and suggestions, which we have heard, to challenge individual judges, in particular I am talking about candidates from Sjenica and Novi Pazar, is an argument that someone is unsuitable because someone in his family is unsuitable and not on the line of verticals, or geneses, but on the line of a side-line parallel. Even if that were the case, even if we had a basis for someone in the family being on the sidelines of relatives, even though it is very controversial about the accuracy of this information, I would like to open this discussion not just because of this issue, because of all the other questions. So, by what legal principle of our current right, the general human rights, universal law, God's law, traditional law? I never came across that someone can bear responsibility and have consequences because someone from his family or a wider family is qualified for something accused, suspected or something. It's just that there's no such thing as a principle. The basic principle in all of these categories is the right that you can only be responsible for your actions. So that's what I want to potential here. Why? Because it's the 21st century, we know how full our history is, how full our past is. So, disqualifications based on unverified words, based on an unverified accusation, based on a certain label, I think this is the time when we need to go through healing from such experiences. So we know certain dark moments in this country where people's lives went because someone pointed their finger at this e, he's the one, because his uncle is either uncle, or the Amija, or the Daija, well, he was with these, he did it, he didn't check it out, and in the end, he was me. So, we should, first of all, clear this up, and on the other hand, with regard to orientation, to the future orientation of this country, what we hear at the very level of the state's summit on our declarations of where and how this country should go is a different direction and a different relationship, and if we strive for certain historical cures, I think we should be careful here to the end. I think there's room for candidates who are also challenged to re-analyze and not break those young people based on unverified claims, statements, suspicions, in particular, that someone is someone else's, that. What about the other young lawyers who are supposed to be running? How is all this going to reflect? And finally, what I don't always want to point out first. So, these candidates are members of the Bosniak National Community with which it is not secret, with this community there is a need for increased improvement in building and raising relations, that is what actually the SPP is permanent here and does carefully, trying to find all those moments and elements to bring this healing to the desired level and to actually make this state with all its majority people, with all its minority communities, open a new website of healthy relationships. It's not easy to get rid of the burdens of all past, we all know that. Many are also fresh, but only with full capacity of well-meaning, full capacity of responsibility and care that we do not make mistakes where we do not have to, that we do not make decisions quickly and based only on certain initial information. It's very important, it's of paramount importance. In addition, and I mentioned this in the previous speech on this subject, so we also have a question of the ethnic structure in the judiciary that is both in Novi Pazar and in Sjenica, if I can say at the expense of Bosniaks and then we have an attempt to get a similar number of candidates from the Serbian and Bosniak court running and if the structure is national in Novi Pazar about 80%, in Sjenica about 70%, and then in the procedure of further appointment, or selecting judges, if we disqualify some candidates from the Bosniak community and Bosniak people, we still have there not only to correct this situation that is at the expense of the Bosniak community, or Bosniaks, but we are still jeopardising it. So all of these moments when we take, this is a precautionary basis, a basis for responsibility, so it's okay to check, but to deal with facts. It's okay to check, but I think it's time to get rid of certain habits from the past, certain practices. We have some practice from the 19th century, we have some practice from the 20th century. The truth in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia cost a country that went to the king himself to talk about Sandzak, to try to build the state's trust in Sandzak, there was an attempt to make relations with prominent families, important people of respected families. But in the second half of the 20th century, in the communist period, the practice completely changed. It was going to be that respected families and respected people were being humiliated, eliminated from social and public life, made of those unreputable and low-class dignitaries, made of elites and that they were being built into a relationship with the state. Then it formed so-called. A category of associates, in other words spies, informants, ours, he's ours and then from generation to generation from father to son, from son to grandson rules that category he's ours, he's our associate and we make him a functioner, we make him something we need. That this concept was held by force, but this concept can function formally, but that concept is not what we want – trust. In addition, these are all verifiable categories, because if you say that the candidate's uncle from Sjenica is an army employee of the Republic of Croatia, that is true, but other claims, I don't know about participation in the Storm, for war crimes, there is no indication that this is true. That's not true. Moreover, a man normally comes to Serbia and now if a man comes to Serbia regularly, what is the basis for being charged with this? So working in the Croatian army alone cannot be the basis for you to charge yourself. First, this information is disputed especially from this negative aspect of certain charges, and in addition, it is an amijah, or uncle, and in addition to being the senior father of that candidate, Sade Rojajica, was elected a few years ago as prosecutor, or assistant prosecutor. So we have these paradoxes. So, the father on the line of the genealogy wasn't controversial, and then we challenge the candidates or someone tries to challenge the candidate who's related to uncle over, and the kinship is through a father who's not controversial. So you see we have a problem. I understand caution, I understand the desire to be careful, but no matter how much or any of us have the right to be careful. We have both the right and the obligation to verify that caution and to verify the claims. And, he's not here right now, I don't want any controversy or need to, I don't know, burn with the MPs who put up those attitudes. No, it's really my goal to get to what's true. I am sure that there will be an understanding in the ruling majority, that we will look at the facts about these claims and therefore make the right decisions. Why? Well, imagine what these effects are when you have someone coming from the judge's family. So it comes from the judge's family. The man's flying, he expected it, it's the ideal, he's given himself up to it, he's got great grades, he's got it all in his biography, and all of a sudden you're cutting him up based on gossip. It's not just the fact that or doesn't mean that we just turned down one candidate. No, that's the soulless side of our business. It's a lot more than that. So, you break one young man, you break his family, you send a message that has multiple negative consequences. What about the other young lawyers who are supposed to be running? How is all this going to reflect? And finally, what I don't always want to point out first. So, these candidates are members of the Bosniak National Community with which it is not secret, with this community there is a need for increased improvement in the building and healing of relationships, that is what actually the SPP is permanent here and does carefully, trying to find all those moments and elements to bring this healing to the desired level and to actually make this state with all its majority people, with all its minority communities, open a new website of healthy relationships. It's not easy to get rid of the burdens of all past, we all know that. Many are also fresh, but only with full capacity of well-meaning, full capacity of responsibility and care that we do not make mistakes where we do not have to, that we do not make decisions quickly and based only on certain initial information. It's very important, it's of paramount importance. In addition, and I mentioned this in the previous speech on this subject, so we also have a question of the ethnic structure in the judiciary that is also in Novi Pazar and Sjenica, if I can say at the expense of Bosniaks and then we have in the run for an attempt to get a similar number of candidates from the Serbian and Bosniak court running and if the structure is national in Novi Pazar about 80%, in Sjenica about 70%, and then in the procedure of further appointment, or selecting judges, if we disqualify some candidates from the Bosniak community and Bosniak people, we still have there not only to correct this situation that is at the expense of the Bosniak community, or Bosniaks, but we are still jeopardizing it. So all of these moments when we take, this is a precautionary basis, a basis for responsibility, so it's okay to check, but to deal with facts. It's okay to check, but I think it's time to get rid of certain habits from the past, certain practices. We have some practice from the 19th century, we have some practice from the 20th century. The truth in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia cost a country that went to the king himself to talk about Sandzak, to try to build the state's trust in Sandzak, there was an attempt to make relations with prominent families, important people of respected families. But in the second half of the 20th century, in the communist period, the practice completely changed. It was going to be that respected families and respected people were being humiliated, eliminated from social and public life, made of those unreputable and low-class dignitaries, made of elites and that they were being built into a relationship with the state. Then it formed so-called. A category of associates, in other words spies, informants, ours, he's ours and then from generation to generation from father to son, from son to grandson rules that category he's ours, he's our associate and we make him a functioner, we make him something we need. That this concept was held by force, but this concept can function formally, but that concept is not what we want – trust. We need to build and restore trust, and that only seems to be with those people who are of honor, of respect, in one nation. I suggest to the entire state system that we finally open a new page with regard to establishing, building and restoring trust, I am now primarily talking about reconciliation between the Serb and Bosniak people, i.e. between the state of Serbia and the Bosniak people in general in the country, especially in Sandzak. This can happen with honest people, hosts, dignitaries, who today exist, who have endured this hundred years that have been very difficult for them. There is a willingness to have a clean partnership with the state, to have a balanced relationship between rights and obligations, and that these people will be given a hand, and that's not why you're sons, grandchildren and fugitives, we have prejudice, and yet you're conservative. Yes, we are conservative, because we conservatively preserve our traditional, spiritual and religious values, but these values are not the basis for being destructive to the state. We want to get us to trust and that trust will be answered by these people, I responsibly claim to you, I'm one of their representatives, I know how they think, I know how they think, but it has to stop with those practices that are ethically bad, which are culturally bad and that ultimately gave all our experiments negative results. So instead of making relationships with the lower layer of so-called. Let us, gentlemen, have relations with gentlemen, with people of reputation, with people who are the bearers of important families, whose word is heard in Sandzak, or in the society in which they live. With one such orientation, believe that we will bring improvement for both this country and for all the citizens and peoples living in that country. I expect responsibility and support for these young people, and I wish you every good.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6223	I thank the Vice President of the National Assembly. The word has been authorised by the parliamentary group Social Democratic Party of Serbia, MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6224	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Pantic, today we are considering the motions for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to a judicial office in the basic and infringement courts, and as courts have been facing a long period of time in almost all courts with nearly 400 judges on an annual basis, the frequent proposals for the selection of judges are, I am an indication that we are indeed intending to strengthen the human resources of all courts at the level of the state and thus contribute to dissipating the courts and thus contribute to removing the shortcomings in the work of the courts themselves across the country. Today we are considering the selection of 89 judges of the basic courts and 27 judges of the criminal courts. An increase in the number of judges in question will not eliminate all shortcomings and we do not expect it, but it will certainly contribute to a much higher percentage of the solving of old cases, then trials within a reasonable period of time, but also more effective work of courts at all. Among the judges whose choice we are considering today are some of my college colleagues, and I am sure that they will consider the above-mentioned discussion during the day as one of the kind of recommendation that will take place at the beginning of performing such an important function as the Judge's function. The proposal for this decision includes, among other things, the election of 14 judges of the Court of Justice in Nis. I come from Nis and as someone who is professionally connected to the work of all the judges in the city I can say that one of the biggest problems facing them is just old objects. We've talked a lot about the subject, but I still think that precisely because of the pandemic that hit our entire country, which has greatly affected the solving of these cases, maybe it's the subject of talking exactly the program and solving old cases at the level of all courts, I'm going to look back at the basic court in Nis. The basic court currently has 56 judges at this time in Nis, and the year started with 21,000 cases of which 2,800 belong to so-called. The category of old cases, which means that each of them would have to solve more than 350 cases on an annual basis, you will agree that this is a large number and one aid in this regard by increasing the number of judges of the Basic Court in Nis will really relieve the judges themselves but allow them to work more efficiently. The analysis of the achievement of the objectives of the old-school resolution programme for 2020 in the case of the basic court found that the overall percentage of the achievement of the objectives of the previous programme was over 92% and that is not a small business at all, if we consider that the pandemic has largely slowed down the resolution of the old cases, but also the implementation of the programme that was then envisaged. In this respect, it should be mentioned that the percentage of the achievement of the objectives in litigation and largely depended on new claims filed by clients against banks due to the cost of the processing of loans and they greatly increased the number of cases discussed by judges. About 3,800 of them have only been during the past year. Based on the results achieved above, an old case resolution programme for 2021 has been adopted and as such provides for appropriate measures and activities to be taken at the level of the basic court. I mean methodological measures, internal, external measures and preventive measures to be taken. Perhaps one such approach to this topic is a little dry and not particularly interesting, but I am consciously speaking of it in such a comprehensive and detailed way that 14 future, I hope, judge of the Basic Court in Nis could get involved in this problem immediately upon entering office. Being a judge is one of the most important successes of every law student, and in that sense I have to mention an institute that may not be spoken of often, within the Faculty of Law in Nis, it is the Institute of Mobile Legal Clinic, as well as the Institute of Legal Clinic for Protection against Discrimination. The mobile legal clinic for each student's rights is practically a kind of practice based on which he acquires the knowledge that will later apply, perhaps in this very way that we are talking about today. Thanks to it through solving practical examples and cases, with the mentoring of professors of course, citizens who are unable to enable themselves to participate in a lawyer in order to exercise their right, free legal assistance is provided. On the one hand, it is a benefit for those who need the help, on the other hand, to give students the right to acquire practical knowledge during the period when they need it most to make it necessary for them to eventually become judges. Just from the point of view of a former Faculty of Law student in Nis, I can say that this Legal Clinic in the paper has helped me very much for everything I've been working on and simply created the possibility of a clear distinction between law and justice that is very often referred to as synonyms, and that they are not, and has confirmed the meaning of the Latin saying that the real art of balance is between good and equal and it really is. To go back to the program of solving old cases at the Main Court in Nis. I mentioned the methodology that was listed as the first step towards the realization of the programme itself for 2021, and it implies using universal forms in which data of results achieved in the past year will be entered and it represents some kind of summation of what was done to make a clear overview of what was missing, or what should be done in the next period. In addition, it should be added that these reports are now being entered by electronic means and that is indeed a good way to keep track of what has been done at the level of the courts. Internal measures for the implementation of the objectives envisaged by the programme include the formation of teams, the Niški basic court has already done so. Then, a more significant role of the office and the establishment of the delivery service so that we do not have trouble delivering letters, and thus by slowing down the resolution of certain items. I would retain myself on external measures relating to co-operation with external institutions, and that is one of the very important factors in achieving the objectives envisaged by the programme itself. In accordance with its capabilities and capabilities, the Court must maintain constant communication with external institutions, largely dependent on their work. He may not be so visible, but the ultimate outcome depends largely on the functioning of external institutions that affect the work of the court itself and on the deadlines within which they must act. In that sense, the Niš Court planned to sign a number of protocols on co-operation with external institutions. When I say that, I mean the Nish Police Administration, the State's Attorney's Office, the Criminal and Correction Office, the Bar Association, the Post Office, the St. Sava Social Labour Center. All these are institutions that have to act in a way, their actions must be consistent with the programme that monitors the resolution, in order to ultimately give its effect. I'll give you an example. For example, when reviewing criminal cases, it was found that a significant number of main searches could not be held at all for reasons because they were not followed by orders to bring the defendant from the place of residence or employment or the correctional office. Also, it often happens that there is no report in these cases of persons who were obliged to follow the order of the court, or that the report arrived late, when the proceedings had already moved away and when there was no room for action, and thus it lost its significance. It is therefore important for the external institutions to understand and take over part and obligation, but also responsibility, so that we can talk about the effective work of the courts. When it comes to misdemeanor courts, since we are also talking today about judges who are first elected judges of criminal courts, it is no doubt that they represent an unforgivable link in our judiciary regarding the protection of the rights of citizens, but at the same time they are one of the most significant factors when it comes to the inflow of income into the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, judges in their own way, each with their public authority and by strictly defined rules, are essentially doing the same job. When it comes to judges in criminal matter, we must not leave out the fact that they follow over 270 different regulations and laws, and this requires some additional effort and some additional engagement both in application and in interpretation, but also in monitoring the regulations themselves. I am sure that the judges first elected for the judicial functions of the criminal courts have in mind what their responsibility is in terms of monitoring and applying, and above all the correct application of the rules in all these areas that are within their jurisdiction. Our common goal, both states and individuals and courts and judges, is to create an independent, impartial and effective judiciary based on the foundations of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. In order to achieve this, judges themselves, with their own expertise, training, and commitment to the work they do. I must also point out that efficiency in their work must not in any way depend on the quality of judicial decisions, so the concept of justice depends not only on the quality of judicial decisions and the quality of the work of the judges themselves, but also on the quality of our rules and whether they are applicable, depending on the independence and impartiality of the court, quality, quantity, equipment for work and many other factors that stand in the way of an effective judicial system in every country, and also on ours. In the end, for all the judges whose choices we're considering today, I have one message to make. Justinian said: “It is truly a constant and uninterrupted will to give everyone what is rightfully his own. “ Well, let the message be for them; do not lose that will, but be guided by it, and I think that your success will be good in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6225	I thank the authorised representative of the SDPS. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly, the authorised representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, National MP Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6226	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr Pantic, for every country that claims to be democratic, it is important that it has a good and efficient judicial system from which good indicators come and for other pillars of the rule of law. That's what our country's trying to do. Unique Serbia sincerely supports judicial independence, strengthening the prosecution's independence, as a fundamental principle of rule of law, and in line with modern and democratic Serbia, for which we all fight. Such a Serbia, unfortunately, not everyone wants. We've got some so-called. politicians, whose political activation is based on the fact that each day as much as possible, Serbia's reputation is clouded. We have Marinika Tepic, who submitted to this high home initiative that Serbia recognises the genocide in Srebrenica. I don't want to reduce any victims, but I can't understand the pathological wish of Marinika Tepic to declare Serbs a genocide nation. She talks to her mentor and boss, Dragan Gilas, about an independent judiciary, and then gathers in front of the Jagodina prosecutor's office, all politicians who have long been wiped off the political map by the Serbian people and are about at the level of one statistical error. For them, Serbian citizens are ignorant, illiterate, credentials, bots. I am really ashamed to say more what they all say about the citizens of Serbia. Why are they saying that? Just because they don't want to vote for them and they don't agree with their policy. What's their policy? When you say Dragan Gilas and politics, you understand the association – huge personal wealth, harassing women. I would agree, I would not add anything, nor take a question to the presentation of a distinguished colleague, Milenko Jovanov, who, in a few sentences, presented in a few minutes all the political programme of Drain Gilas and the team. Let us now return to this gathering in Jagodina, where there were about 20 Belgradeers and what their goal was. The goal was to put pressure on the judiciary, the prosecution, to hold some political rally or I don't know what. It clearly shows, as I said, their policy, which is in one word really destructive. I have to repeat again that we insist that the prosecution does its job, show who's manipulating and inventing affairs. This can't stay in the air for the sake of the citizens and for the sake of justice. We know it's true on our side and time will show it. Serbia is a democratic and free country in which every citizen has the right to freedom of speech, but that means free expression of opinion, attitudes, dissatisfaction, but does not mean providing false information. The way towards the EU means respect for human rights and the rule of law and Serbia has regulated this area through Chapter 23 and the conclusion of the European Commission is that Serbia's judicial system is achieving a certain level of preparedness as far as it is concerned. We know that almost all EU member states had to change their constitution to successfully bring an end to the EU accession process, and so did Serbia, which is in the status of membership candidates, a constitutional reform relating to the judiciary, with the aim of strengthening judicial independence and prosecutorial independence. This once again confirms Serbia's commitment to implementing reform processes, meeting the activities of the revised action plan for Chapter 23. We just need to be aware that Serbia has gone through comprehensive judicial reforms over the past ten years, and in order for the new organisation of the courts to carry out all the burden of reform. As the ultimate goal is the visible development of the justice system itself in our country. At present, the amendments to the disciplinary rules and ethical codes of the High Council of the judiciary are necessary and these amendments are necessary to define the illegal act, strengthen the capacity of disciplinary bodies, explain which provisions should entail precisely disciplinary responsibility and the very responsibility for their non-compliance. Unique Serbia believes that the principles of judicial independence and impartiality are the central basis for a democratic and modern society, which is just based on the rule of law and that judicial independence is an institutional means of protecting human rights and freedom. That's what we stand for. There must be no abuse on any basis, because the only interest of this country should and must be equality and equality between all citizens. We believe that as a society, we are mature enough to build land on these very principles. One of the more important roles for the construction of such a society is the judges, and a good judge is the one who swears to judge by justice and law and who is not subject to will, but does his job honestly and honestly. We also elected President of the Cassation Court a few weeks ago, representing the highest authority of the judicial authority. That election gave us the president of the High Council of Justice. This is important because of the election of judges, because on 5 April we received a new meeting of the Supreme Council of the Judges, and the election of the President of the Cassation Court completes this assembly and the VSS can work uninterruptedly and propose judges to the National Assembly. Today we have a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. The role of the VSS is crucial in seeking to make Serbia an effective and functional rule of law. Why is that? It is precisely because the VSS chooses and relieves judges, it selects candidates and proposes to the National Assembly a choice of judges during the first election of the court office. It is you, Mr Pantic, in your opening statement, who listed all of this and a whole series of specific responsibilities, including decision-making regarding the immunity of judges. Their role is constructive and immeasurable. The construction of the rule of law as Serbia is today also goes hand in hand. We can say that Serbia is the leader in the region when it comes to judicial independence, because today in our country, the judge enjoys full freedom in making decisions. I also have to touch organised crime, as it is one of the most important objectives of this government, and as seen through the judiciary, we are in the Assembly, I think, two years ago, adopting co-operation with the Eurochast, and we have further strengthened our capacity in this fight. And when we look through the judiciary, special courts dealing with this topic in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kralje, Nis and their results are good. In the last two years, I think about 1,600 people have been charged. Unique Serbia sincerely supports strengthening judicial independence and strengthening the independence of the prosecution, as a fundamental principle of rule of law, and I have to repeat it several times, and we will not give up working for Serbia, Serbia's citizens, along with our coalition partner SNS and the SPS, and it has not been easy to return to the path we are on today, economic, health and political stability, Serbia's international reputation has been restored. Our people have a lot of proverbs that really paint some life situations and life itself, and I especially like one, and I will finish my presentation with it today, which is – dogs bark, and caravans pass. Of course, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all the points on the agenda of this session in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6227	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Assembly. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Tom Fila. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6228	You seem to have been tried, Madam Vice President, that you must always hear me. Madam Vice President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, today is an important day for the candidates this Assembly will elect as judges on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary, any violations, or the first election for regular judges. Their biographies and grades are recommending them for judges and the SPS parliamentary group will support their election in the voting day. We SPS MPs trust the High Council of the judiciary and its assessment, because we have no argument that this proposal would raise doubt. We socialists trust people until proven otherwise. It is very important that the candidates elected by this Assembly be truly elected, not nominated, which is now the case. In order to achieve this goal, it is inevitable that the quality of the candidates proposed by the High Judicial Council should pass through the review of the Justice Committee and this Assembly. How would you do that? The modules are different and we can talk about them. For example, it is possible to attend and talk with candidates in the Justice Committee, for a long time to check the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary and what is very important for me and for all of us who have been in law enforcement, how much a man realizes that being a judge is a very, very high-ranking man, who must have a reputation and therefore must love his profession, and a man who cares whether he is in the Customs Administration, whether he is here or there or he is a judge, that man is a missed judge. However, this brings us to the key and most important issue of judicial reform through amendments to the Constitution, on the government's proposal. First, do we have enough time to comply with the procedure that ends with the referendum? Mrs. Maja Popovic, the minister of justice, assures us that this is feasible. I'd love to, I'd really like him to be right, but my life experience and professional experience is very different. Why am I pointing this out? If the amendments to the Constitution deny the right of the Assembly to make the first choice of judges, then this exhibit of mine loses all meaning and I apologize to everyone for what I'm saying, but I hope it never happens warmly. My Serbian counterparts and I are personally against ten members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary deciding on the first choice of judges, even infringing ones. This right must belong to the MPs of the 250-strong Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, compared to ten, and which are variable in each election. Speaking of this subject, it's inevitable to mention two more things. The first issue is the membership of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. As part of these two high-level bodies in the judiciary, lawyers must be elected by lawyers, not by this assembly. The second issue concerns the judicial academy, established by the 2009 Law. I believe that this institution should remain within the framework of the law, as it is now, not provided for by the Constitution. If there's a debate, if there's ever a debate, about changing the Constitution, I'll give arguments as to why it should. A completed Judicial Academy is a condition for the first choice of judges. You used the "start course", although I don't know what the starting course is, middle or final, it doesn't matter. The candidates for judges can also be from the ranks of lawyers. The proposals you made for the misdemeanors and the first election of judges include two lawyers. They don't have a completed judicial academy, because that's not a condition for enrollment in the law firm. The director of the Justice Academy said they would have been modified from three years to six months or otherwise. I don't mind if we find a way, one way or another. We can do the same for judges who want to be lawyers, which is more often the case, to introduce some kind of law school, which would last as long as this first one. So he has to get rid of it and he has to allow lawyers to be elected judges. It's something that needs to be done. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the reform of the judiciary through changes in the Constitution should be aimed at restoring the faith in the judiciary. Faith in the judiciary returns only through honorable and professional law enforcement people who love their profession. We have people like that, and it's up to us to recognize them and choose them. I can use another time, but I don't think I'd tell you anything. Seven minutes is a smart man, as our people say, a smart man and a mosquito is music. What I wanted to tell you is what I said, and I can give you an example. You know, we watched this "Family", and again, Slobodan Milosevic was updated. When the Yugoslav Constitutional Court made a decision suspending the Serbian government's order to hand over Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague, no judge wanted to sign it. What a reputation a judge needs, such a reputation we need, that the executive authority cannot order him to sign. You know, a colleague from Palma's party left, and no, she's here. Today, everyone blabbering about not being in custody, which is not two months in custody, that psychiatrist who was your colleague, and no one alive knows it's necessary to initiate a criminal procedure. I'm tying this because Slobodan Milosevic didn't walk into prison in my presence, but a solution was made. That's how he could get out of Central Prison, only with a solution to rescind custody. Here's the kind of judges we need, who'll have what I can't say, but who'll have the courage. Thank you very much. I spent two more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6229	I thank the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. For our children, Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6230	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr Pantic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's agenda is the choice of judges who are first elected to office. Often in recent weeks, we have talked about justice, in line with these points of the agenda, and I really hope that today's candidates who have not the only concern in the proposal are to be chosen, but also to take a broader view of today's debate in parliament, i.e. before they become part of the proposal that lies ahead of us aware of how serious they are predicating, aware of their quality and results in the work that will qualify them, but also aware of their shortcomings. Judges share justice, judge and establish a balance when a right is violated, resolve disputes and some disturbances both in social relations and play an important role in the functioning of a democratic society that exists today in Serbia. We are with the representatives of the judiciary on a joint mission to ensure that the judiciary is independent, impartial and effective, above all to ensure that citizens are satisfied, in order to be equal to the law in the exercise of their rights. Judges, on the other hand, must be competent, dignified, professional, with highly developed moral traits and certain integrity, and they must worry about it themselves, but it is also our duty to choose in the parliament judges who are first elected to judge office or the presidents of the courts. The reputation of every judge makes the reputation of our judiciary with us, but also in the international community and all of us care about it. The reforms we are conducting in the area of justice years ago and the efforts we are making to create an effective, independent and independent judiciary show above all our willingness to fix the situation in the judiciary and raise it to a higher level, but also the willingness to carry out the obligations that we have made as a state in the EU accession process. From the proposal for a law that comes to us from the government as an authorised promoter and we are discussing in the tide, we see that we are constantly working to bring our legislation into line with EU rules. In that sense, we also engaged in the process of changing the Constitution, which I had not talked about before in the tide, but now we started the process. We have many meetings and one public hearing behind us and I want to inform citizens of Serbia about our activities in the National Assembly. In fact, Serbia has defined itself to go through Eurointegration and several international agreements have been concluded on this road to EU accession, perhaps of the utmost importance to us, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the EU's Negotiation Framework for the Republic of Serbia. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed in 2008, and entered into force in 2013, when Serbia gained EU-member country status. It was then confirmed that it is of great importance to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation and that, above all, we will set as priority areas the rule of law, strengthening institutions, strengthening judicial independence and improving its efficiency. The EU's negotiating framework for the Republic of Serbia is a document that defines the principles and procedures of the negotiating process, with a focus on the conditions that we have agreed to, of course, and under which we will adopt and implement EU legal assets. A strong judicial system in terms of efficiency and independence of the judiciary is the main prerequisite for effective application of EU legal flows. Serbia has developed a National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018, precisely with the aim of strengthening our judicial system and as five basic principles in the strategy are: independence, impartiality, expertise, accountability and efficiency of the judiciary. Certainly, the strategy worked to link judicial reform to the Eurointegration process, particularly in terms of training the judicial system for changes in the normative framework and applying recommendations in the area of judicial reform. The strategy also contains guidelines on how the Constitution should be amended, regardless of whether it is not binding as a document. First of all, the need to amend the Constitution in the work relating to the influence of the legislative and executive authorities on the process of election and resolution of judges, the president of courts, public prosecutors, election members of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as to specify exactly what it means and what exactly the Judicial Academy means. The new strategy for the period from 2020 to 2025 also confirms the need for a change of the Constitution in the justice work. The 2016 Action Plan for Chapter 23, which was revised in 2020, provides for concrete moves in line with the European Commission's Recommendations on Scanning for Negotiating Chapter 23. Therefore, the existing provisions of the Constitution should first be analysed and amendments should be proposed in accordance with the European standards and proposals of the Venice Commission. We are aware of the fact that this process requires fundamental and fundamental changes in the judicial system, as well as in the areas of the fight against corruption and the protection of fundamental rights, both in normative terms and in terms of implementation. In this regard, when creating reform steps under Chapter 23, we were primarily managed by the EU's legal assets. In areas where legal fluids do not have or are not covered by an entire area, we have managed already established standards, but also by parallel practice. When assessing the existing situation, we must be objective, but also in setting targets ambitious, if we take into account the European standards that we should achieve and the extent of the changes that await us. Of course, it also involves facing the administrative capacities that we have and, of course, facing the financial moment. It should be said that there is a shift in the area of judicial reform, which first facilitated the development of the Action Plan, and in particular strategic documents in the area of justice, the fight against corruption, the prevention of discrimination, the repair of the situation in realisation, for example, Roma rights, etc. The content of Chapter 23, therefore, of the judiciary and of the fundamental rights, shall be based on the principles set out in Article 2. The EU Treaty. This chapter - EU legal assets are divided into three key areas. These are: the judiciary, the fight against corruption and fundamental rights. One of the key conditions for respecting the rule of law is the functional judiciary, which follows basic principles and values, such as legal certainty, equality with other branches of government, which will also help economic progress, further, protection against the influence of other branches of government or private interests, as well as the expertise of judges and prosecutors who will make decisions in accordance with the law. Corruption is reported in various forms and areas, such as bribery, trade in influence, abuse of government, mismanagement of public funds or resources, conflict of interest and nepotism. The fight against corruption has been marked a serious challenge and is taking an important place in EU accession. In addition, the consequences of corruption are seen in all the areas in which it occurs, in a series of consequences for the state system and society in general. Corruption damages the implementation of the principle of rule of law, poor economic and economic growth, as it prevents investment that involves, in addition to a stable financial system, and a stable judicial system, i.e. the application of the law, costs for the state and leads to the divided confidence of citizens in the institutions. It is therefore important to have an appropriate legislative framework and the activities of state authorities aimed at combating corruption. Protection and promotion of fundamental rights is a general principle of EU and international law and is seen through a series of personal, civil, political, economic and social rights enjoyed by all those living in the EU. The previous years marked a number of measures and reform activities, including the adoption of a series of new laws. In the period from 2012 to 2019, around 12 billion dinars were invested in judicial infrastructure, resulting in over 6,200 square meters of newly built buildings, 76,500 meters of square reconstructed and over 100,000 square meters of refurbished and renovated space. Over a billion dinars have been invested in modern IT equipment and adequate furniture. Since October 2017, the judicial information system has processed over four million electronic queries, replacing more than eight and a half million printed documents. In this way, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made savings of over a billion dinars. Since July 2018, more than 400,000 electronic documents have been exchanged between catasters and public notebooks. The public register office replaced citizens with the trip to the counters of five different state bodies and, if we recalculate it, it saved citizens more than 1.6 million days. Public registers for citizens are now electronically submitted by means of real estate contracts and tax returns to competent authorities and such a system prevents, for example, real estate from being sold twice and providing certain security to citizens. The principle of opportunity, i.e. delaying prosecution, was introduced through the Criminal Procedure Act. The principle of opportunity rationalises criminal justice and reduces the burden of courts. By the end of 2019, over 1.6 billion dinars were allocated for 450 projects of public importance: for the GAK National Front in Belgrade, for the maternity site in Cačka, for the University Children's Clinic in Belgrade, the University Library "Svetozar Markovic", the Museum of Contemporary Art of Vojvodina, the Sopoćani monasterys, Studenica, Gradac etc. The funds collected on the basis of the opportunity are allocated to public competitions held by the Ministry of Justice each year. The Ministry of Justice announced the first public competition for the allocation of these funds in March 2016, when more than 350 million dinars received 67 users and were primarily schools, kindergartens and centres for social work, health homes, hospitals, homes for old faces, gerontological centres. I said in the beginning, we've passed a series of new laws. The new Law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time began to apply from 1 January 2016. The new Law on the Prevention of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities began to apply in February 2016. The law on preventing domestic violence began to apply on 1 June 2017. The law, I must say, moved the boundaries of our legislation and for the first time put the victim in the first place, imposed emergency measures, such as the temporary distance of the perpetrator from the apartment, and a temporary ban on him to contact the victim and approach it. Mandatory coordination has been established, which was not previously established between competent authorities, so the police, the public prosecutor's office, the social work centre. Individual plans have been established for each victim, which is provided by the competent state authorities for concrete measures to protect and support victims. Serbia has also agreed its criminal legislation with the Istanbul Council of Europe Convention. Four new crimes have been introduced. Furthermore, the new Law on the Organisation of Authority Jurisdiction in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and corruption began to apply on 1 March 2018. Four regional anti-corruption centres have been established in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and the King and special departments to combat corruption in public prosecutors, courts and police. Specialized public prosecutors, judges and police officers have been established. They're formed so-called. the task force for the most complex cases managed by a public prosecutor. Internal co-operation has been improved through the establishment of a network of liaison officers from 13 relevant national authorities. During the period from 1 March 2018 to 31 December 2019, special departments of senior public prosecutors filed indictments against 1,398 persons, while the courts issued 916 convictions for corruption crimes. The lobbying law has been applied since August 2019 and is the first regulation to regulate lobbying in Serbia and a mechanism to combat corruption that should reduce the grey area of various influences on public policy formation. The law on free legal aid began to apply on 1 October 2019. He created the possibility that if a citizen does not have enough resources, the state will bear the costs of legal assistance. The new Personal Data Protection Act began in August 2019, and a new Corruption Prevention Act has started since September 2020. Everything I have stated shows the willingness and consistency in carrying out the commitments we have made in the process that will mean full membership for Serbia in the EU, but also a much better judicial system that will mean greater efficiency in work for the state and citizens. Strengthening independence and independence, work impartiality and professionalism are as important as improving efficiency, but lack of efficiency seems to be the biggest problem for citizens to lose confidence in the judiciary. First of all, it is thought of the trial within a reasonable period, i.e. the tendency to reduce the duration, i.e. to shorten the duration of the court proceedings and to satisfy justice within reasonable deadlines and legal certainty raised to a higher level. As for the amendments to the Constitution in the work relating to the judiciary, and the amendments to the Constitution only apply to the judiciary, and regarding everything I have said so far, I would like to inform the citizens of the activities we have taken so far, because the amendments to the Constitution are not only about the Governments of the Republic of Serbia or of the MPs, but about all citizens of Serbia. In December of last year, the Serbian government, as an authorised promoter, submitted a proposal to the National Assembly to amend the Constitution, or an initiative with those members that would be changed with an explanation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives shall have certain competences in this procedure. The Committee session, held on 16 April in the National Assembly, was attended, of course, with the exception of members and deputy members of the Committee, and the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Ministers Popovic, Joksimovic and Comic, the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, all the heads of parliament groups, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, the ambassadors of EU member states, the ambassadors of America and Canada, as well as representatives of the Council of Europe Office in Belgrade and the head of the political sector in the EU delegation in Serbia. The Committee then decided that because of the importance and complexity of the whole process, and also because we want to carry out an inclusive and transparent procedure that will result in absolute social consensus starting with a series of public discussions on the subject of constitutional changes involving all interested factors. The first public hearing took place on April 29th in which representatives of the judiciary, independent state authorities and associations who have previously co-operated with the justice ministry took part. At the next public hearing, representatives of the profession will be invited in terms of professors of law schools, representatives of legal chambers, the civil sector and all those who report to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives that they are interested in delivering their opinions, proposals or objections. The procedure for changing the Constitution is significant, complex and implies great responsibility. As a result, the widest debates will be held, so that all interested audiences will be involved. As chairman of the Committee, I simply felt the need to inform citizens of Serbia. In the end, I want to devote some time to the proposals that are ahead of us today, and they concern the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. From the proposal sent to the National Assembly on 9 April by the High Council of the Judiciary and filed under number 01 119-639/21, I challenge the candidate for the Vranja Criminal Court, Natas Jovanovic, a judicial assistant at the Court of Justice in Surdulica, so I suggest that it be voted in particular on the day of the vote. From the proposal addressed to the National Assembly on 9 April by the High Council of the Judiciary and filed under number 01 119-640/21, I challenge the following candidates: Srdjan Perić, Market Inspector of the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Telecommunications, candidate for the General Court in Veliko Gradište, Branko Mladenov, Judge at the Basic Court in Vranja, Miljana Stošić, Judge assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis, Ivan Spasić, lawyer, Barica Nis – all candidates for the Basic Court in Vranja; Tatjana Petrov, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, candidate for the Basic Court of Justice in Zrenjanin, Mr. Marko Đurić, judicial assistant in the Court of Justice in the General Court of Nis and Milica Pešić, judicial assistant at the Court in the Court of Justice in the Court of the Court of the Court of First Instance – both candidates for the Basic Court of Justice in the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6231	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, Section 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since there are no more authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups reported, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has a national emissary, Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6232	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we have before us a debate on the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to judge office. We have had this opportunity as MPs several times to discuss and consider in this conference, which means that the common choice of judges is actually something that is the need of the entire judicial system and that we should certainly support as MPs. On the other hand, I hope that we are sufficiently aware of the responsibilities that the National Assembly has in the process of electing judges for the first time, where, with the High Council of the Judiciary, we participate together in the election process itself and the proposal and the choice of candidates. True, it seems to me that a little greater responsibility lies with the High Council of the Judiciary, since they have the authority to assess the professional competences of the candidates and what we have had to hear in the presentation of the rapporteur himself, the representative of the High Council of the judiciary and what I would like to look at, these are three parameters you mentioned in the candidate's assessment, which are – expertise, competence and dignity. So three very important parameters that actually define or should at least define future judges, which certainly have an obligation to work in accordance with these three qualities that we point out. So, expertise and training is something that certainly you assess as a profession and where the reviews that the candidates get are very important, but dignity is something that includes the very moral qualities of the judge. In fact, when we say judge, the function itself is very, very responsible and important and it has direct implications for the lives of the citizens themselves. This is very important, and I would like the candidates who choose these responsible functions to bear in mind. Because, in fact, the most important thing in all of this is that all the laws, all the decisions that we make here, are the most important relationship or implications towards an ordinary citizen, and the judiciary is one of the important segments of every person who, in any way, comes into the opportunity to be or someone who is seeking justice or someone who is actually being sued on a certain basis. Therefore, citizens will have the right effect of fair, professional, qualified and, I hope, moral judges will see exactly if they are fair in their trials and in their decision-making, if they respect legal legislation. On the other hand, the rule of law itself, the fight against corruption, crime and everything else depends largely on an effective and independent judiciary. Corruption, bribery, are actually crimes of law and crime that should not be associated with judges and the judiciary, and I'm not sure that's exactly how we stand by all the grounds and in all the courts, because very often you can see and hear sometimes expressed dissatisfaction by citizens about the work of the judiciary itself. The independent judiciary is something that is an ideal to seek, but no more developed societies and perhaps much more advanced societies than ours have failed to fully bring to an end, but that ideal should not be given up. It is precisely the independence of the judiciary that will depend on the very quality of the judgments and the final results that I have already said the implications for the life of ordinary citizens. On the other hand, the issue of the efficiency of the judiciary is something that is very important for the citizens themselves, because it is precisely the obsolescence of a particular case that citizens very often encounter, so sometimes we know to say "justice, although slow, is available". But the fact is that when a great period of time goes by in relation to a particular crime, whether a verdict is pending, it can sometimes be a very difficult circumstance and sometimes even violate someone else's right. In any case, we have already mentioned that the question of choice of judges we will certainly support although, I say, we are not in a position to know all the candidates personally and to know information about them, but we are left with that based on the biographies that you delivered to us we are actually forming an opinion. On the other hand, that we have the hope that indeed your call and this above all responsible function will take one, let me say, the most serious way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6233	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6234	The President-in-Office, Mr Pantic, respected colleagues and colleagues, in recent times the issue of the rule of law, has been particularly updated as one of the basic political criteria in the process of European integration or EU accession. This automatic integration of judicial reform with European integration, I think it is quite wrong because it is the fundamental interest of all our citizens to be protected from the court. Of course, I also respect the views on the side and suggestions that our European partners have, but I think it is very important for me and for the crucial importance that our judiciary and our way, the way and the direction in which our judiciary should be reformed think about our citizens. I think our judiciary should practically be turned to them. What is the position of our citizens, in the judiciary at all, what they think of our judiciary, what are the weaknesses and what are the virtues of our judiciary is shown in the initial report on the monitoring of the situation in the 2020 judiciary. Last week was the presentation of this Report, which is the result of the work of 12 civil society organisations and professional associations in Serbia in the last year and is looking at key issues and problems facing our citizens in access to justice. The great contribution of this report is that it seems to me that for the first time the situation in our judiciary has been seen from the corner of the citizens, not from the bird's perspective, but from the corner of the users and what are the individual problems our citizens face today. This is, once again, the first report coming from the perception of citizens in terms of the results of reforms and justice, how much legal aid is actually available, how effective the courts are and how fair the criminal policy is and what the citizens of our country were responsible for. In fact, it is seven basic items they have responded to, which are legal aid, i.e. its availability, as I said, access to data and transparency of courts and prosecutors, access to courts, judicial efficiency, ethics in the judiciary, access to justice and guilt and access to judicial authorities. In order to build a relationship of trust between citizens and justice in general, it is necessary to remove the sense of legal uncertainty, to strengthen the belief that the court exercises the protection of rights and freedom of citizens, that it is not exposed to influences and to strengthen the principle of rule of law in each individual situation by its actions and decisions. This approach will give visible and tangible results. I must say that the results of this report are very interesting and the overall work of our judiciary is seen and evaluated by the citizens of our country on a scale of 1 - 5, with a score of 3. It means that there is one trust and that there is a positive view of the work of the courts. When I say three, that means good. Of course, it can be much better. But some things have been assessed differently. Citizens are at least satisfied with the criminal processes and the worst-rated criminal policy in the area of access to justice and guilt, while the work of notaries is much better assessed, e.g. with an estimate of 4. This suggests to me that the discharge of our courts and the release of the judiciary from some issues, of some activities that additionally burden the work of judges and create additional pressure on courts, should be done by some other kind of procedure if there is a legal possibility. I believe that this initial report on the monitoring of the state of justice for 2020 should serve as an honest guideline to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice, which can sense the pulse of our citizens, i.e. how they see the results of the judicial reform so far. I am very important and undermining the importance of this opinion, because you know, lawyers, even though I am not a lawyer, that the legal system should also have features and collect the features and traditions and real problems that we have on our ground. So, it should be the measure of the terrain on which the verdicts are made and it should be distinguished according to the terrain and tradition, and a threshold for the population to which it judges. Once again, I must say that the rule of law is the central theme of several cycles of judicial reform in Serbia, a process that has been going on almost continuously for the past two decades, in several stages that have marked significant legislative, personal and institutional changes. Today, we are considering a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are elected for the first time to serve as judges, and I am pleased to know that the courts of the longer period of time face a lack of personnel and that there are about 400 vacancys per year, so that the proposals we have here in the Assembly are common and very good way to fill these places. Today we are considering the selection of 89 judges of the basic courts and 27 judges of the misdemeanor courts. An increase in the number of judges in question will not eliminate all shortcomings, but it will certainly achieve a speedy resolution of the old trial cases within a reasonable, or more effective work of the courts in general. Personally, I'm sure there is no democracy in that most developed form where there is no developed judiciary. You know, when democracy was formed, it wasn't just Pericles formed, we know his views. Among the founders of democracy was Eshill, who insisted that democracy is a constant and constant fight against something he calls exaggeration. I think the main trait in the morale of these people we choose today should be to be people who are balanced, people who have their own personal integrity and, of course, a top professionality that they have proven through their practical work, but also their studies. So I want to say that we are happy to be able to choose as Social Democrats another number of judges and to practically employ these people in establishing justice in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6235	I thank the People's Messenger, Dr. Muamer Bacec. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6236	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Citizens, Mr Pantic, today is on the agenda of the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office and that judge in the 17 municipalities and cities of the Republic of Serbia and today we choose 26 of them, as well as in the basic courts of 21 municipalities, i.e. We're still choosing 90 cities today. I would remind you that last month we also chose. decide on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office of the basic courts and 30 of them. There are logical questions – do you really need this number of judges? If we know it was a years-long ban on employment and there was a natural outflow of judges, that is. Retirement and so on, all of which increased the number of unsolved cases. Cases, as well as the fact that there have been a major inflow of new cases, I am talking about the basic courts, the conclusion of the inevitability of the adoption of new judges in order for the trial to take place within a reasonable period of time, i.e. Anything fairer, as well as the quality of judgment was greater and better. Namely, by bringing in new judges, we have an effect of proof, as well as great urgency and efficiency that is expected of all newly elected judges especially if we know that after three years of their work they will again be on certain checks to see if they have met the criteria and quality of work. As far as criminal courts are concerned, the situation is similar. The number of cases was even two thousand cases per judge in certain cities, and by introducing infringement orders, the number was drastically reduced, so today about 500 cases per judge, which is also a large number that, by introducing new judges and redistributing the case, can be reduced to an optimal number of cases which will also be better solved. Of course, as more than 100 candidates are on the agenda today, we from the JS Parliamentary Group believe that the VSS has obtained data and opinions on expertise, skills, dignity of all candidates to be able to perform a judicial function, and that it has carried out all the procedures defined by the laws and regulations and that the proposed candidates are the right ones and we will support these proposals in the day to vote. Of course, we expect all the newly elected judges to have their own personal independence in their work which is looked at in the freedom to make impartial decisions, without any restrictions, any or any influence or incentives of direct or indirect interventions, instructions or pressure from anyone or for any reason. Just because this congregation chooses you doesn't mean you have any addiction. Our expectations of you today are that you strictly adhere to the law, that you contribute by your active work to restore citizens' trust in the judiciary. The judge must be a man of integrity who will constantly build on his expertise by gaining new knowledge and skills needed to carry out his duties as judge, but also the expertise that will best benefit him in defending his personal independence and general independence of the judiciary. In addition to the personal integrity and unquestionable expertise of the judge in order to be a good judge must be fair, determined and courageous, stress resistant, and above all characteristic. The judge must be educated, especially to possess and cherish, i.e. only such a judge will regain citizens' confidence in the judicial system. I personally want you to be good judges. We will choose you in the day of voting on behalf of the people, and you will also do your duty and obligation with honor, dignity and honesty in the name of that same people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6237	I thank Parliamentarian Nenad Filipovic. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6238	I thank the President-in-Office, the Honorable Judge Pantic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I think that at present the most intense political issue in our country is the dialogue between the government and the opposition it organises and chaired by the president of the SPS and the president of the National Assembly, Mr Ivica Dacic. It is a very important issue for political life in our country and somewhere we all believe that if Ivica Dacic managed 19 states to persuade them to withdraw recognition of independence, so-called. Kosovo will be able to convince the leadership of political parties to participate in the elections, convince them of the need for dialogue, and the possibility of consensus on the most important state issues. Why am I saying this now when the judge's choice is on the agenda? Well, to make a parallel between areas where dialogue, negotiations and compromise are important on the one hand and on the other hand, there is no room for dialogue. When the court judges, when judges perform their duties, there is no room for talks, for negotiations, or for compromise, there is room only for strict and consistent application of the law. For the judges of honor, the only authority and only talker is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the laws of our country, and I hope that the candidates who will be elected today are just like that, that they will strictly respect the regulations that are in force in the Republic of Serbia, that they will safeguard their independence and impartiality, that they will safeguard the reputation of their profession, that they will not agree to any compromises, and that they will remain resistant to the pressures that will inevitably be and that they will not have dialogue with authority, nor with the opposition, nor with the accused, nor with the damaged, nor with the debtor, nor with the debtor, but that they will talk, or only listen to the Constitution and the law. I will take the opportunity to remind Serbian citizens that police, prosecutors and courts are competent to investigate, accuse and ultimately judge whether someone has committed a certain crime or not. It's their jurisdiction and it's their responsibility and in their own way they have a monopoly, and the rest of us need to refrain from charges and convictions. And, I want to remind all the citizens that every time in society and coffee like that we accuse and condemn, when we assume someone has done something, that every time we violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because we violate the assumption of innocence that every citizen of our country is guaranteed by the Constitution. We should let the competent authorities do their job, and they must do their job effectively, quality and pay full attention to the discovery of all criminal acts and their perpetrators, and especially those most difficult, because this is how the conduct of the competent authorities is necessary for the citizens of Serbia to believe them, and judges are also guaranteed independence by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the parliamentary group of the SPS believes that the judges who will approach the oath after today's session will respect, above all, the right of citizens to a fair trial, including the right to trial within a reasonable period, will try not to build up files with cases, that they will respect the procedural deadlines, that they will not ignore the attempts of participants in the process to delay or to unjustly delay the hearings, i.e. even now at the time of the pandemic, it may be a difficult task rather. It is important that justice and judicial protection arrive at the right time without delay within a reasonable period of time, therefore, so at this session I will apostrophe a reasonable deadline for the length of the court proceedings, as one of the priorities, because in fact we all know that when many citizens hear how long the court proceedings are averaged and how much slangonically they have to beat in courts, many of them are giving up on court. That's why I think it's a problem whose solution has to be dealt with in haste. Another very important issue that depends on the exercise of the right to access the court is the matter of the costs of the court's proceedings, above all the greatest burden is the costs of professional legal assistance. Yesterday, we also discussed how very few citizens know that the law on free legal aid is in force and in application of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. I am glad that the law today also mentioned colleague Zaric Kovacevic for the reasons that the opportunities provided by the socially endangered categories of citizens are extremely important. That's why I want citizens watching this session to have the right to free legal aid. This primarily refers to socially endangered categories, so citizens whose existence is threatened or threatened if we were to bear the costs of the attorney, or defender. I will teach them if they need free legal assistance, so they can apply to the municipal, or city administration. This request can also be filled in on the spot, where it is necessary to provide evidence of the serious material situation in which it is located and for which it is sought for free legal assistance. For example, it can be a copy of a bank showing the amount of salary or pension, it can be a solution to the social work centre, but in any case, I expect from employees working in the municipal, or city administration to be kind to citizens and to give them all the instructions and to help every claimant, because it is extremely important that our country be socially responsible and that every citizen be granted equal access to the court, and hence access to justice. I'd like a few sentences to be dedicated specifically to candidates for criminal courts, because I believe their task is not easy at all, nor that their responsibility is small for several reasons. First of all, because violations are the most common offenses, the majority of citizens face a mistrial and the largest number of citizens of the judge of the criminal court are not very popular. What is more important is that judges of the Criminal Court are expected to know more than 300 rules, since violations are not only prescribed by laws, but also by regulations, but also by country and local decisions, therefore, depending on local self-government. So it's about extremely dynamic regulations that often change and belong to different areas. I will also point out that there is, of course, the possibility of sentence being imposed for up to 90 days, as well as the possibility of fines being imposed in the event of non-payment being replaced by a prison sentence, and most importantly, any person to whom a criminal sentence has been imposed becomes a criminally punished person, which entails certain legal consequences. For example, according to the Police Act, it is a condition that a person who wants to be employed in an internal affairs body is not even being punished, i.e. that it wasn't punished in the past. This is not the only regulation that sets such a condition and therefore it is important that the judges of the Criminal Court know that expectations of them are no less than the expectations of the judges who will perform their duties in the basic courts but, on the contrary, a very high level of expertise, independence and, of course, the urgency in the work is expected. Dear Mr. Phila mentioned constitutional changes. The procedure has already been initiated. The aim is to comply with EU standards in this area with the provisions of our Constitution on justice. I would add that not only regulations and constitutional provisions on justice should be harmonised with EU law, but also with the European level and European standards should be harmonised with the salaries of judges and prosecutors. In recent years, there has certainly been a lot of investment in the judiciary, a lot has been done in the development of judicial infrastructure. The Court of Justice was renovated in Belgrade. I saw that work is now under way to reconstruct the business court's façade in Belgrade. It seems to me that the Court of Commerce has been renovated as well. Also, new buildings were also awarded courts in Leskovac, Zajecar, Pirota, Pancheva. The palaces of justice are also being built in Nis, Kragujevac, and it is also planned to build facilities for the purposes of courts and prosecutors in other cities. Indeed, it is important to work to improve the spatial conditions in which judges will perform their duties and it is certainly a segment that should be further promoted. However, I would especially like to point out that only a few candidates proposed today, if elected, will have the privilege of working in a grain court that now, in the context of this story of judicial infrastructure, I would point out that it has the most beautiful building. Namely, it is a building that was declared a monument of great importance, which was built from 1906 to 1908. Indeed, this is what I say as a curiosity, because rare cities that have such monumental structure for a court building. My privilege was to watch this magnificent building as a child in Zrenjanin and dream that one day I would enter it with some kind of judicial title. But sometimes it's not all we dreamed of, and there's time for that, though. I'm deliberately saying this to the candidates who are elected today, and some will certainly be chosen to underline that after taking the oath here in the National Assembly, they will receive the title. The judge is a title, and I believe that he will not only be worthy of it, but he will wear it with dignity, safeguarding the legal order of our country, but also the reputation of his profession and the entire judiciary. In the end, I'd just like to thank the citizens of today's Gjurdzhevdan, and I'd like to congratulate my family on my fame and wish my health and happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6239	I thank the People's Messenger, Deep King. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6240	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us a proposal from the Supreme Council of the judiciary to elect judges who are first elected to judge office. It is the choice of judges in basic courts and infraction courts throughout Serbia. What I would like first of all to point out is that the Supreme Council of the judiciary, in accordance with the law, with the criteria, in accordance with the procedure, has respected all the procedure envisaged and has today proposed candidates to the National Assembly who believe they meet the conditions of choice for the judicial office for the first time. What I want to point out is that in the day of voting for candidates who will be elected judges, I want them to be happy, successful, decently perform their function which is otherwise very important and very responsible, to try, to make the efficiency of the trial as much as possible, to be one of their basic principles, because the trial within a reasonable time and efficiency of the court is something that is for the citizens, for the economy, for all those who are in court proceedings and processes and how important, and for the legislator group, Alexander Vukic – for our children, the question of citizens, the question of the satisfaction of citizens in front of the courts is certainly one of the priorities. Talking about judges, not remembering the period until 2012 would not have been good. No, because it's a nice period so it needs to be repeated, but because that period has just shown so much negativity that it has to be told to the citizens that it will never happen again. I must point out that by 2012, a yellow tycoon company led by Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Tadic and other yellow tycoons had executed the right cut in the judiciary. In just one day, thousands of judges and prosecutors were left out of work only because they were not sufficiently attached to the political party of the yellow tycoon company, i.e. the policy led by Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic. A thousand judges and prosecutors with a solution that practically had the same explanation, all thousands of solutions had the same explanation and what was particularly insulting to both judges and prosecutors, that was what was in the explanation, that they were not worthy of their functions. Unfortunately, some of the judges who have thus ceased to serve as judges did not welcome the Constitutional Court’s decision that, in this way, the re-election of the courts declared unconstitutional, they did not welcome, some of them died because of the disease. What I would also like to point out is that, apart from being executed in the judiciary, they have done, a yellow tycoon company led by Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Tadic, have done damage, and that damage was estimated to be 45m euros. But neither was it interested, nor was it interested in the yellow tycoon company, because these 45m euros were not paid by those in their pockets, but paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or paid from the budget. Since citizens were not interested, and since they were only interested in their own wealth, they did not pay attention to it, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia recognized the robberies, thieving and injustice of the yellow tycoon enterprise, and in 2012, they already sent them into political history. Except that the judges and prosecutors have been executed, the yellow tycoon enterprise has humiliated the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the judges and prosecutors, that from 138 basic courts, it has reduced them to only 34. In this way, there is also a far-reaching justice for citizens from some parts of our country who have had to travel 100 miles and more to get to the court and to find the justice they seek and to fight for in some ways. Also, I must point out the action "Sabbe", in which DOS authorities have detained, detained and arrested close to 12,000 people. In the worst possible way, in the "Sabbe" action, basic human rights were violated, tortured over the detainee, detained persons for up to 30 days, detained without any court decision, were not entitled to defend. Of course, the Constitutional Court also called here, reported that the proceedings were unconstitutional and, on that basis, also, a large number of people who were then detained in that action, and otherwise I have to point out that only a small number of persons were filed with criminal charges, they sued the state again, they received millions of reparations. It seems to me that somewhere around here is the largest one-faced person who's been brought in and held back by six million dinars. Of course, that was again paid by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All their haughtiness, all their lies, all their publicity, of course they only paid citizens of the Republic of Serbia through the budget. Of course, from 2012 to today, the government of which is the backbone and led by the SNS headed by President Aleksandr Vukic has done a lot when it comes first to strengthening judicial infrastructure. Why does it matter from the point of view of the public? Because strengthening, restoring, reconstructing and building new judicial institutions will mean that citizens come much earlier to the satisfaction of justice, or courts work much faster, because judges have the opportunity to schedule much more frequent trials, which were also one of the reasons why the trial was not within a reasonable period of time and why even some of our citizens sought protection at the time of the yellow robbery enterprise and before the European Court of Human Rights. Of course we've been strengthening the capacity of judicial institutions. I must point out that one of the largest judicial institutions, synonym for justice, the Court of Justice is fully reconstructed, fully equipped with modern furniture, modern technology. It was built in the 1970s, but no one to Alexander Vukic in restoration, in reconstruction, in adapting to working conditions and judges, but also to clients and lawyers who come to these courtrooms, no one has done anything before. Also, I must point out that the palace of justice in Kragujevac, which will unite 11 judicial institutions, will all be under one roof. It is also in the interest of judges, in the interest of employees in judicial institutions, but also in the interest of citizens. I must point out that the Belgrade misdemeanor court has been at 14 different locations before, that a new Court of Criminal Court was built in Belgrade with 105 courts, also modernly equipped and tailored to the absolute needs of an effective judiciary. Also, what I want to point out is, in fact, I want to call on the competent authorities, all the competent authorities to take all the measures in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and to determine the origin of the assets of all those suspected of being illegally enriched, regardless of who they belong to, and in particular to consider how it is possible that someone at the time of political exercise, performing only a political function, earns a profit of 619m euros and 68m dollars, scattered by various destinations, by various world destinations? The competent institutions must declare whether there may be no recipe for success or whether there is a clean robbery of people's money, because citizens need to know. Serbia is a democratically decorated country, Serbia is a country that advocates the rule of law, Serbia is a country that wants to boost judicial capacity and through the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, because Serbia is taking big steps forward. Serbia steps in the steps of the winners. Serbia will never again be defeated and humiliated, as was the case at the time of the tycoon company, because today, at the head of the Republic of Serbia, is primarily a statesman, but also a patriot, Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6241	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Your MP group has 19 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6242	I thank you, Chairman. I know you're always real and tolerated, which is your virtue. Dear colleagues, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to the town of Nis, the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I've been selected from the list of Alexander Vukic - for our children and I represent the United Peasant Party. I will support the motion to elect these judges, because I have confidence in the judiciary and I have confidence in the proposals that have come to us, with the fact that I'm always potential and I'm going to ask for a further period of time to find the possibility of being in small areas, where there are no courts, where there are no judicial units, even if it's due days. By the way, there was our man from Nis, Judge Aleksandar Pantic, who I truly trust extremely, and I know that these proposals are very real and in place, with some suggestions likely to be challenged, but I will also support it, because there are probably some reasons. Once again, distinguished colleagues, citizens, I congratulate today on the glory of Djurdjevdan and once again I wish everyone health, happiness, success and that this year be born and noble, both in the field and in the house. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6243	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6244	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about a proposal for two decisions addressed by the High Council of the judiciary to this House, which concerns the choice of future judges. On the one hand, we have a decision before us that the VSS proposes to elect 21 judges for criminal courts, and on the other hand, a decision which the VSS also proposes to elect 98 judges for basic courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed decisions conclude that we are today discussing the election of 116 judges, which clearly shows the intention of the VSS to work on a constant strengthening of human resources in order to achieve the maximum efficiency of the Serbian judiciary. If we read these decisions, we will see that they are candidates who have graduated from law school, passed a judicial exam and gained the necessary knowledge and experience in the judicial bodies of various instances. And these very facts tell us that today we are discussing future judges whom we can give confidence to be sharers of justice, which will justify the reputation of a judicial call by their work and fortification. I would like to commend the intention of the High Council of the judiciary to constantly work on the proposed decisions to strengthen human resources, given that individual basic and infringement courts in the work have a large number of cases and I believe that these decisions will contribute to a more efficient resolution of both existing and new cases. Indeed, a number of courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are burdened by a large number of inflows of new cases, and I believe that this is the result of both everyday life and business processes that our judiciary is extremely successful in responding to, making decisions within the legally prescribed deadline. Here I would like to commend the Ministry of Justice and all the competent courts who have managed to successfully solve over a million and a half cases of executive matter by 2016, which have additionally burdened existing judicial capacity. Also, the Supreme Cassation Court adopted a strategy for solving older cases in which mechanisms for solving those cases were clearly defined, which contributed to halving the number of cases in 2017 and 2018. Indeed, today we are faced with a small number of cases that have been pending sentences for more than 10 and more years, and this clearly shows the efforts and efforts of the Ministry and all the competent judicial institutions to resolve these cases more effectively in order to get citizens to justice faster. I would really like to commend all the competent courts here, because I believe that in this domain we have achieved enormous successes, showing reports of unsolved old cases over five and ten years old. I also believe that new amendments to the Law on the Prosecution will also contribute to a more efficient settlement of cases in litigation. But the efforts of the competent ministry and the efforts of all competent judicial institutions are the result of a devastating reform of the 2010 judiciary when over three million cases remain unsolved, over three million cases that were currently in the halls and offices of newly formed courts. All these old cases awaited the positive effects of 2010 judicial reform, which did not occur in any area. They did not even happen in the area of more efficient solving of old cases, did not occur in the area of forming new networks of courts, but these positive effects occurred when selecting certain judges who were assisted by certain parties that were then in power, and here I am primarily referring to the ruling DS. At that point, we were a justice system that was unique in Europe, a judiciary that was able to defend against the political influence of DS, individual DS people and their political satellites. In 2010, the judiciary became so-called the political apparatus of the ruling party at the time, and it was never hidden, and it was then silenced, because silence at that time meant approval and all the competent judicial institutions kept silent in 2010 and were not able to observe the direct violation of the Constitution and the law. Those who carried out the reform of the judiciary, on the wings of political power and political fissure, were greatly praised by judicial reform, believing that the judicial reform provided for themselves with an apprehension for all those things that were punishable until then under the applicable criminal law. In 2010, faced with the harsh reality that they have lost full political support in the people, they have begun the administration of justice on their own. And those measures were purely personal and political interests. In that list of priorities, citizens were in the last place, and no one at that time cared about why individual court proceedings were conducted for 15 years and more and why citizens were exposed to unnecessary court costs at that time. But what was important to all of them at the Justice Department in the DS is to create conditions for criminal charges to be dropped as soon as possible and to stop certain investigations. This was necessary until the next elections in 2012 and 2013, when the SNS won the trust of most Serbian citizens and when those DS couldn't control the judiciary anymore, they couldn't control all other segments of life and when finally the political ballast fell from the judiciary. I also have to say that many bad things were done for those few months, from November 2009 to 2010. Unwritten rules have been defined by those who were sitting in the High Council of the Judiciary, which had not set foot in the courts twice in their lives, a new network of courts was set up to contribute to a more effective judiciary, and contributed to a more inefficient judiciary, where citizens had to travel to the nearest judicial unit for 50km. All this was done on the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all of us here and all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the reform cost 44m euros. It was done by a small and narrow circle of people who then had support in Germany and Andric's wedding. In the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the presidency, headed by Boris Tadic and led by then Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, decisions were made solely in the interest of people sitting at the top of the DS, without asking any citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And when the judicial reform was over, of course they realized they were doing everything against the Constitution and the law and they started doing things to clear their conscience. The amended Council of the High Council of the judiciary is starting to hold talks with unselected judges, but these talks are more similar when you want to wash your conscience, but you have to carry out a certain obligation to justify a certain personal and political interest. The talks did not present reports on the impact of judges, who could say freely, were falsified by certain people from the Ministry of Justice, nor were any judges told at that time why they did not meet the conditions for the general choice of judges. For a year, they have been trying to delay any decision that will completely deny judicial reform since 2010. It takes two years for individual leaders of the justice ministry and the High Council of the judiciary to hide. They hide from their colleagues, hide from Serbian citizens, hide from the public. They go public, pressed against the convictions of the foreign and domestic public, only to be remembered not as gravediggers, but as reformers of the judiciary. Also, what's very striking is that no member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary came out 11 years later to say that certain things were done illegally. For two years, they have appeared in different courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, arguing that the reform has been implemented in accordance with the law, but are hiding. They are hiding from citizens, as I said, hiding from their colleagues, but proudly going to all those events where they should justify the political rating of their ideological leaders and doing so by 2012 and 2013, when the Constitutional Court took the political ballast off DS and when it was able to say – people, so the judicial reform in 2010 was unconstitutional and illegal and decided to get almost 800 judges back to work. Eleven years later these same people try to honor us for the things we do in the Serbian judiciary, which we pass certain laws, which we pass certain sublaws. They're telling us today that justice in one part is dependent. Gentlemen, the judiciary is independent and objective today. It is now exclusively dependent on the Constitution and the law, not on your political programme and political ideology Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Snezana Malovic and others who sat in the DS. You honor us with the organisation of the judiciary, and you haven't had the strength of 12 years to build one court building, a judicial unit or to pass a law that will contribute to a more effective judiciary. You're just the creators of political justice. To this day, you have not answered my question from the previous session – who was it on Krunska Street two nights before the general selection of the list of judges? I know those names, but I want you to answer me. You had in your hands papers that marked judges who weren't close to the DS. Go more public and tell me who ripped those lists. You've been tearing up the lists and laughing at that opportunity for certain judges. What's your problem? What bothered you then, that those 900 judges didn't go on the campaign to make you cry your ideological leaders? Did it bother you maybe when those judges failed to join their families in the DS? Did it bother you at the time that the verdicts were passed in the courtroom, not on the phone and the emissaries from Crown Street, or did it bother you that because of the judicial blockade, the lawyers at the time failed to learn the basics of the judicial and criminal proceedings they are being called on today? I think that much more than all of these things bother you in the judiciary, but you have to understand that you are no longer in a position to reform the Serbian judiciary, no other segment of society because behind each of your reforms we were left with debts and we were left with people on the street. Today when you enter Serbian courts, I ask you to look and see what the objective, impartial and independent judiciary means. I ask you today to see judges who are not reading on the front pages of how they should pass judgments, but who are solely based on the law. And for you, gentlemen of the opposition, the laws are unknown because for you by 2012, the laws were exclusively a dead letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6245	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't judge that you won't be judged. Those are the words of Jesus Christ. I'm afraid our judges, that our prosecutors, whether they believe or not, have honorable ones, and that's a lot of independent justice from this authority, but not from the former, I'm afraid they're just respecting this password. He says, "Do not judge, lest you should be judged." Many criminal acts remain undecided. There are a lot of things in public in crimes, in evil deeds, where the prosecution and the judiciary don't think to punish it. They probably take that exchange – when Gilas says if you know who I am, or Jeremic says it a little more strongly – do you know who I am. That's probably why they say -- let's not judge, because when they come back, if we judge by law, by law, they'll judge us by the law of power. It's probably what they're afraid of, and this part of the honest and honest judges I said, believe it or not, they're there, and they're numerous. He who does not punish evil does this new evil. That's what those who are afraid of judging should know so they won't be judged. If you have a lady from Panchev who tells the drug dealer that he needs to move out a journalist and asks him if he can move that reporter and that reporter out of Panchev, if the courts and the prosecution don't go to jail for that, then they're complicit in it. Today that lady is making up crimes. The prosecution is not doing anything again, that one who falsely reports a crime, who in such a way disturbs the public, does nothing to determine whether this person is telling the truth or not, or that person says that he will not say who the witnesses are, who the victims are, because, behold, he will not say it until the prosecution and the courts protect the witnesses and the victims for whom he will not name. Well, how does the prosecution, the courts, and the police protect the NN person if she's hiding those facts? The prosecution and the judiciary are afraid of one company. I was saying here that we have no problem with the opposition, that we have a problem with the abuse of the opposition that has been abused, the acts of the opposition, which most of these other Serbs call the entire opposition, those who do not think so by them are not opposition. We have a problem with Gilas's company and the School's business. That's what I've been telling you for almost three years. The lady, after just five, six parties, entered the company, which has two official names, is probably "Multicom", and the other is the Freedom and Justice Party. Anyway, everyone from Multicom is employed by Gilas's firm, so I don't know, the prosecution might look at it, because political work in companies is banned. Obviously you don't respect that, either. Anyway, the courts seem to be in some fear that they wouldn't be judged by them, even the part that didn't belong to the DS. There are some judges here who I thought were worth challenging. Crimes should be punished. On today, a Macedonian was killed, right, General, in Split, 1991. A gun was raised to a country that provided for one nation to be accepted among the winners, although she was a loser, to be in the country together with the winners, although she was defeated and who only 30, 40 years later raised the rifle to the state, to a community where she was highly recognised. A Macedonian, Geshovski, was killed outside military command. They tried to drown another, Nakov, I think. And for me, it was the beginning of an armed uprising from the Independent State of Croatia against a state that did not punish enough. And that crime that took place in Split has never been punished. Never did our war crimes courts make an effort to get people involved in Dobrovoljacka a few days ago was an anniversary, from 1992 in Sarajevo, to try to punish criminals and try to try to get them on the ground, and most of it was criminals, to get on the ground of Serbia, to try to bring them to justice, because they killed almost 40 soldiers. Among these other Serbs there are those who justify that eight died in Dobrovoljak, and reportedly others died in an attack on the presidency, which was empty at the time, because Ali Izetbegovic was with Kukanjc in, I think, UNPROFOR's vehicle. So there are those who justify crimes, but the war crimes prosecutor's office can't only hunt the guilty among the Serb people. He must appreciate Serbian victims, regardless of what I think in this war crimes and court prosecutor's office, mostly, mostly DS members, let's say, Zoran Zivkovic's wife is the court's secretary, who filed a report to the US Embassy on the activities of the prosecution and the role of Ms. Kandic in all these cases. I have a record of that. Our courts did not bother to respect the victims of the Serb people in the way they respected the sacrifices that Serbs made to others, and even often they punished those who did not commit any crime, especially in The Hague, and God for me and among the domestic judiciary, because it was Natasha Kandic who held the tas of the goddess of justice, so where she says it is necessary to overcome whether you are guilty or innocent, as in The Hague, or you are a Serb or innocent. Many in these courts, like this now for Thaci, many in these courts as in The Hague go, as it is called, this Haradinaj, so you have in Croatia Gotovina, mainly Gotovina for Gotovina, it is your password, whether you are a Serb or innocent, are mainly invited to those courts to be released. They are called upon, not to condemn them, but to free them, so that no one else can punish them, as well as the Gjilan group. Since she was tried in Serbia, as Judge Majic freed the Gnjilan group, which by lying, by taking the soul to dozens of Serbs deprived life, the non-Albanians, and over 200 tortured and the method of taking the soul lightly, by torturing to death. So, these characters, these criminals who were convicted, and by the judgment of Majic they are freed, they can no longer be punished anywhere, because they were tried once and no one else can bring them to justice. It is a recipe that our courts have prescribed from The Hague, etc., which called for the trial of those who committed crimes against Serbs only to free them from judgments and that no court can prosecute them for these acts anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, today is Djurjevdan. Congratulations, everybody. In many homes there will be a song of sorrow and despair called Djurdjevdan. On today, 1942, right at dawn, from Sarajevo prisons and small camps in which the Serbs were present, the Ustashas announced to the Serbs a Djurdjevdan uranium. Three thousand Sarajevo Serbs, from Sarajevo and the surrounding area, who were picked up in these camps and imprisoned in cattle wagons that could fit 40 people or seven horses, according to the wagons. 200 people were placed in each wagon, a total of 3,000 people were placed and sent over Slavonski Brod to Jasenovac. In Slavonski Brod, those who have survived the journey to Slavonski Brod have been overloaded. They were loaded by the Ustashas in those wagons at the early dawn of Jurdjevdan. Out of sadness, despair, spite and pride, one of the young men of the Cultural Art Society "Sloga" from Sarajevo sang a song by Gjurđevdan. That's what the Ustashas reacted to, closed the windows, and a large number of Serbs did not reach Jasenovac, to the death factory, but choked on account of the lack of air. Despite everything, the song Djurdjevdan was sung and today it is sung and all those who sing it and listen to it should remember that it was created at the moment of the human despair of Serbs who traveled towards the death factory in Jasenovac. Goran Bregovic, in the 1980s, seemed to me, only to agree on that song and she is a song of sadness and on this day we peasants usually remember, which we are from Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, that terrible crime when in one train, in one morning, 3,000 victims were suffered. Professor Dr. Vidovic, who survived all of this, who was a living witness to the singing of this song, was a living witness who was in that composition of death that traveled towards the factory of death. My dear judges, you who are not challenged, you who will pass, should know that you should not be afraid of Gilas and that the law should not be spiders, as it is said, through which large flies and beetles, the type of Gilas, are being punished small. You shouldn't be afraid to judge because Gilas and Jeremic are threatening to judge all political opponents, including the media they're about to release. As proof that I was saying that we have a problem with Gilas's company and Solak's business, let it serve you that after REM, which I was talking about, and Telecom, there is suddenly a request for a national frequency, right, Mr. Jovanovic, who wants to be assigned to them. They learned that after 2000. Of the five national frequencies that have been divided, all five have been divided, so they think it's their turn, because they've divided it as a power, to assign this one as an opposition, and they probably think they're allocating it to themselves and thus controlling another national television. Let me remind you, when they shared frequencies with long pipes, they banned BK television by means of an armed route, right, Mr. Markovic, long tubes fell into BK television, and I think one of the better TVs at the time and took it. Let me remind you that these freedom fighters of the media, who are calling for laws, an independent judiciary, etc., that nothing has been valid in them, banned in 2003 the most investigative paper, I think it was "National". The most excruciating newspaper was banned in 2003. Let me remind you that Rajo Rodic owned "The Voice of the Public" and "Kurira", it seems to me, in 2009, almost flew into the sky because his car blew up at Marakana, I think. To remind you that they had then prepared the Media Act, in 2009, that they had entered the "Plaise of the Public" and "Kurr", that they had arrested the owner, I do not know if he was the editor-in-chief, Raju Rodic. These are those freedom fighters of the media who assigned all frequencies while they were in power, and now there would be one left to assign to themselves, as an opposition. My dear judges, the law is for every law. Valtazar Bogisic – the law is the law no matter how much support it is and, in the end, it says, the greatest injustice when one of his evil works is still benefiting. My dear judges, present and future, you should see this and know that the people are asking – when will you punish Gilas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6247	I thank my colleague Risticevic. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6248	Thank you. Dear President, Mr Pantic, distinguished fellow Members of the People and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are facing today a very important choice of first-time judges. As we know, Serbia has become, thanks to the politics of Alexander Vukic, a country where justice is respected, where the right is respected, but you from the VSS and the current judge, means, I'm talking about those honest judges who are doing their job in accordance with the Constitution and the law, as well as the new judges who will be elected on target, you are on target and you are not an easy task at all, because you are on the target of the mafia, you are on the target of all those who would still love to steal, to kidnap from Serbian citizens and to rule crime and corruption. The first pillar of defence against crime and corruption and against the mafia are certainly all those congratulatory judges, congratulatory prosecutors, all those honest people employed in the police and the security-intelligence sector of the Republic of Serbia. You're intruding because Serbia already has serious results in the fight against the mafia. As we know, we do not have three and a half months of mob killings in Serbia, a number of organised criminal clans have been broken, and I hope that your fellow judges will judge as well and that all those involved in the liquidations, in the preparation of the liquidations, as well as those who participated in shameful privatisations and who, through crime and corruption, have kidnapped from Serbian citizens millions of euros, will be eligible under the law. So this way I also ask the new judges who will be elected for the first time, to look up to all those honest judges, to their teachers in the judiciary, to their teachers, to their mentors who led them to, to pass, not to list now everything my colleagues have said, and as far as the Judicial Academy and all other training is concerned, where the basic matter is respect for the Constitution and the law. I hope that in its practice and in its future work of this young judge and those judges who have been elected recently and in previous years, it will be the basis of a decent judiciary of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. Because there is no strong state without strong institutions. In order to be strong institutions, we must have a regulated judiciary. And Serbia's judiciary has set out to regulate itself in the right sense since 2012, as far as people are concerned, as is the choice of high-quality judges to their functions, as well as infrastructure. I would only remind myself that the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia has renovated and built new facilities during the previous period. We have a renovated Justice Palace building in Belgrade, a building in Katanic, where it was once a military-technical institute, then a building in New Belgrade and across Serbia. It is these judges we have chosen for the first time that come from various places of our dear Serbia. So, all of Serbia, every municipality in Serbia, every city in Serbia is eager for justice. And in order for justice to be served, all those who have sinned against the law should answer. When I say, all those who have sinned against the law, that is what I mean by those mob clans behind bars and who will soon be behind bars, those tentacles who are on the run, and all those who have participated in economic crime. I hope that soon in Serbia, we will not have a situation where those who have taken from Serbian citizens hundreds of millions of euros, such as Dragan Gilas, will not laugh on television at all of us, laugh at truths and justice, laugh at judges, laugh at Serbian citizens. So we had this shameful guestship of Dragan Gilas, who wanted to introduce himself to some kind of genius -- I was very smart, so I knew how to trade for seconds, and, well, I managed to make millions, so he brought around some people who were a little bit more capable than others, and here we are trust brains, I'm a machine engineer, and, well, I used my machine-engineered mind, and I'm the manager, the others didn't know, I knew and earned hundreds of millions. The story could not go through kindergartens at the time of cartoons, children of preschool age could not believe that story, Dragan Gilas. That's how he wanted to insult machine engineers. My father and uncle are machine engineers, and that's why I know what these people are thinking, real machine engineers, not machine engineers like Dragan Gilas. In his performance, President Vukic made clear in a loud and clear way what kind of student Dragan Gilas was, since he called for it, but also what Gilas was like as manager. said Dragan Gilas -- he cannot lead Serbia to someone who has no success in business. What business is he talking about? About the business where he managed to put hundreds of millions in his pocket and the state to be in charge, both the city of Belgrade and the state of Serbia? This is what the citizens of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vucic and all the election results of the mafia road we had in Serbia by 2012. That is why these people, such as Dragan Djilas, Solak, Jeremic, Marinika Tepic and their associates, do not respond either to fair judges, or to honest prosecutors, or to honest police officers. Nor does respect for justice, truth, rights, because those in such an atmosphere, where Serbia is a regulated rule of law, can no longer take away from Serbian citizens money and put money in their pockets. They do not respond to what Serbia is today, and Serbia is today a free, democratic state, in which justice and justice rule. And as President Aleksandar Vukic said, Serbia can no longer be led by those who robbed it. Serbia should be led strongly, fiercely, energetically and combatably into a better future, to the future for our children, to the future that we believe in, and that is the future that all normal citizens of Serbia want, and such minors are the absolute majority, because Serbian citizens support all the good reforms that are going on. On this occasion, I only want to ask the citizens of Serbia once more to be vaccinated. Come on, my fellow citizens, who didn't vaccinate to vaccinate. We must primarily protect our health, our friends, our families, our neighbors, so that one day there may be an atmosphere again so that we can normally mark the glory, because we must primarily protect our health. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate all the citizens of Serbia who mark Djurdevdan's happy glory, and I would also like to thank my colleague Marijan Ristic for reminding great about the terrible moments that our people went through in 1941 and 1942 and the crimes that were committed to our people and how the song "Djurdjevdan" was created, so Đurđevdan is also the great date of the Serbian people, as a glory, but also a great reminder of what happened to us. We have suffered a great loss, and I hope, God of health, that no more will ever happen to the Serbian people, not to any people in Serbia, not in the region, not in the world, what happened to us in the terrible 40s. Finally, I call on my fellow MPs from the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children" to support all these decisions that are ahead of us, because Serbia and all its citizens are eager for justice and respect for the law, and Serbia can be strong and only the country of justice that was led by our President Aleksandr Vukic. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6249	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6250	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the judicial authority is certainly one of the most important branches of government that one state has, and it is perfectly and naturally, that in the first place the National Assembly will be the one to protect the right given to them by the Constitution, which is independence and independence in its work, adherence to the Constitution and the laws that this same National Assembly brings. It is the obligation and work of the National Assembly. The work of the National Assembly is also to build up the dignity of the courts and holders of judicial functions. However, I guess in order to bring down the National Assembly, some are also trying to disrupt judicial officials, their independence, and their independence. First of all, let me get this straight. The independence and independence guaranteed by the Constitution and by the MP, but also by the holder of a judicial function, is not only a constitutional category, but the integrity of each holder of such a function. How much will it be that he upholds the law and the Constitution and those powers entrusted to him under that same law and the Constitution and it is he who needs his integrity to safeguard independence and independence and his own personal and body that represents, and often also the governing body. This is where we come to those who have proved to be very weak when the former regime has appointed them as holders of judicial functions, so I guess now because of their subsequent mind, everything they have experienced during the former regime is trying to play here. Some of my fellow Members of the People's Parliament and in this assembly, and in the previous one, explained how this was done before and how formerly elected holders of judicial functions were. Here in the National Assembly, letters, memos and decisions are read, call them whatever you want, where a political authority, and the political party is a political body, at sessions, which it has, makes a decision on who will be elected or re-elected as judge and prosecutor. In doing so, he qualified whether he is like political or not. On the side of whether he's honest, whether he's worthy, whether he's capable. The former regime measured whether it belonged to them and whether it would be based on their decisions to make judgments. That's how it was until 2012. I'll explain it a little bit later and prove it. We now have one situation that all that this Assembly is doing is trying to twist the mockery and the destruction of our judicial authorities, the bearers of judicial functions, and that is attributed to the National Assembly or politicians. For nine years, we have been trying to provide legal holders with absolute independence and independence, and we expect these same judges and prosecutors to behave in their work by respecting the laws that we have here and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which for each judge must be a holy letter. It's easy to change the law, but the Constitution and the procedure of changing the Constitution are very complicated and difficult, aside from some parts of the Constitution even if you wanted to and if you had political support you couldn't change. One of these principles, the immutability of this part of the Constitution, is the position of judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia. It can only form, legal technical order can change, but the essence can't. I guess everything collapses alive in Serbia in order for the former regime to return to power is being attacked and the holders of judicial functions will also attack those we now choose, be assured of that. And you know that from who? Of the highest representatives of the judicial authority appointed and appointed in a radical manner in 2009 and 2010. Now, once again, a Supreme Cassation Court judge called, I'm not going to mention his name, where he says this - politicians are humiliating the judiciary. At one of the previous sessions, I read a code that the High Council of the Judiciary brought. By that, one Supreme Court judge must not violate that code. No judge should be allowed, but especially not the Supreme Court Judge. It is the first thing where it is already beginning to try to undermine citizens' trust in Serbia's judiciary. Why? I don't know, I guess out of gratitude for being put up in an unconstitutional and illegal manner for judges. The next dilemma is the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, who was elected less than a month ago, and now you will find a bunch of attacks on what the National Assembly is doing, and it is one of the Constitution's trusted responsibilities of the National Assembly and the electoral function, while this part of the Constitution is in force, we will apply it, in full capacity, as we know best and know it. So we are already coming to the conclusion that the National Assembly is putting itself in one situation that it is a completely illusory private state body. I purposely said a private state body because those who privatised Serbia by 2012 have this perception in every area. In particular, they privatised it in the economic area where the budget was their private cash register. To go back to the judiciary and the biggest problem is why he was just one candidate. Is that the VSS problem? It's not. That's not the problem with the candidate who applied, it's the other candidates who might have wanted to give up, and so on. The National Assembly cannot choose the President of the Supreme Cassation Court just because a candidate has applied. Look, it's attacking one of the Supreme Court judges. Is the procedure which has now been applied for the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in accordance with the Constitution and the law? Absolutely is. We've all read here the whole procedure of how it went from conversations, interviews, general session of the Supreme Court of Justice to the Committee of Justice, the tide that is required in the National Assembly, the vote of the MPs. And they say we have private justice. The same Supreme Cassation Court judge has not said a single word for 11 years as we have chosen Nata Mesarovic to be President of the Supreme Cassation Court. It's not a violation of the Constitution. We've already said that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court would be elected, except for those formal assumptions, technical preparations, work, etc. There's one part that's provided for in the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, member of the 144th President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the VSS, is elected by the National Assembly. That's how he's been elected before, so is the current one, but so is not Nata Mesarovic's chosen. I would like to ask this judge of the Supreme Cassation Court – was there a secret session of the Supreme Cassation Court session at which they supported Nati Mesarovic to be the President of the Supreme Cassation Court? That's what I'm interested in. Whether or not he wanted to recognise the Supreme Cassation Court judge, he participated in a violation of the law and if he really cared about the Supreme Cassation Court and the Serbian judiciary in judicial functions, the judge's dignity would be the first to condemn the violation of the constitution. He would not wait for the Constitutional Court to decide that Nata Mesarovic was elected in an unconstitutional manner because this was not violated discretionary law in the law or in the Constitution, but materially. They'll deal with it if it was just one candidate. Finally, only one candidate would come to the National Assembly after he was proposed by the VSS. Why does he suggest it? Because the National Assembly can only accept or reject, not choose which of all candidates will choose, and thus give independence and independence to the holders of judicial functions. It is very ugly of a judge, even if he was in the process of killing Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, to behave like this. Or maybe, what I said at the beginning of my discussion, independence and independence is a matter of the integrity of an individual who performs the prosecutorial function. Well, because she was elected and judge of the Supreme Cassation Court in one illegal way, unconstitutional. He owes his political mentors from 2010 to step down his profession, his dignity to the judge and say something like that. The judges must be the people of the law and the Constitution. They have to be that way. That's their job. They chose it themselves. Then the first ones who have to, not only stick to it, but to fight to keep what they are guaranteed by the Constitution, to grow old, not to deal with politics who it is, I can't even call that tycoon Dragan Gilas a politician. He's a man of politics. He was never a politician, he was a businessman in politics, his only goal was to make as much money as possible, and he could earn it just by having obedient judges, obedient prosecutors who would never prosecute him for everything he did. Now, because he can't work anymore, and he wants to go back to power again, because my God in Serbia has more money than it was in 2009, 2010, 2011 to be even richer than he was when he left power in 2012. And, about everything, they will try in any way, whatever the National Assembly does, however much it adheres to the Constitution, which is a sacred letter to the National Assembly, unlike those who forged Nate Mesarevic's election as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Here, I guarantee you, as a representative of the VSS, there is no source in the National Assembly on the basis of which Nata Mesarevic was elected. There's no such thing as your memo. He was removed because the messengers were not allowed to see him. To go to the archives, he's gone. There are other ways we got to that paper. As it seems, as it was received, it was hidden from the MPs, but so they chose judges and Supreme Cassation Court and general jurisdiction and more judges and president of the Supreme Cassation Court, and now those who, whenever they elected, violated not only the law, but also the generally accepted moral rules for selecting the holders of judicial functions tell us that the National Assembly does not adhere to the Law on the Constitution and that we, as politicians, are humiliating the judiciary. Excuse me, do I demean the judiciary if I support the decision, the verdict, call whatever you want, the Supreme Court of Cassation, which annuls the verdict of a court of appeals? I respect the court's decision, he annulled a court that has the right to do so under the Constitution, and the law has the power to do so, and I support that verdict, that verdict that Majic began to lead us into fascist ideology, not to repeat the whole story, and now we are humiliating the judiciary. He is humiliated by those who have written such judgments. It is reduced by those who come out of the framework of the law and the limits that we, as bearers of the sovereignty of citizens, have prescribed in determining someone's guilt and measuring the penalty. They annul, humiliate both the Constitution and their judicial function because they do not adhere to the same constitution that the citizens have confirmed in the referendum and then appear on various tabloids, and then they tell us what kind of justice should be, and we know very well how they are elected to the functions they now have, how much they did not adhere to the Constitution, who set them up, on whose order and for whom they were to work. And now that the new judges are coming, they should have no gratitude for the SNS, nor for us as MPs, nor for the government, nor for the President of the Republic of Serbia, but neither for the former regime. Now, that's the problem. Because they will be tried under the law and the Constitution, so we need all of this in advance which the National Assembly is doing to disenfranchise, humiliate and will always find such, I have no right to say, without being offensive, but weak, law enforcement bearers, so let them be from the Supreme Cassation Court who will do all that is good and what is done for the Serbian judiciary to say it is bad, to humiliate and to need better. It may be better, but those who have humiliated the Serbian judiciary certainly do not know better and do not know what is most important and will not, and it is fortunate that the citizens have recognized it, so in the elections, whatever conditions they have, most citizens will not vote for them and it seems to me the biggest problem, and then they must find these listeners from the judicial order, who will muddle their profession in the first place, the court in the judicial office they have and represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6251	Thank you. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6252	Thank you. At the very beginning, I would like to point out once again that this positive practice and to say the legal category in the procedure of newly elected or first elected judges is very important and good, and I hope that this practice will continue after the constitutional amendments have been announced. I will explain my proposal for a simple reason because I believe that just today when we are considering all these names and proposals, we are in the finale of this procedure, because all these candidates have already participated in a particular procedure and this is some final verification, where the MPs who come from certain local self-government are in constant communication with citizens and know about the perception of both public and certain candidates, and tomorrow about certain judges who act very importantly. Personally, I would also like to see such a procedure when we have this item of the agenda here at the meeting, that all candidates for these elections are sitting in this room and that we can see these people in some way, because I believe that the supreme responsibility is not only for newly elected judges, or judges who are first elected, that it is a great responsibility and all MPs in terms of the perception of each candidate who has already passed a certain procedure in this case. I would also say in this discussion something that has now become a general discussion in a certain way in all the media. A lot of these days are being debated about how the courts work effectively, so I would point out what was already said at the very beginning, which is that the annual report on the work of the Courts for 2020 defined that over two million, i.e. two million 13,829 cases in conditions that were completely extraordinary, that the European Commission for Efficiency in the Justice of the Council of Europe also found increased efficiency of the courts and these are certainly cases, good things to be pointed out, because we cannot just be guilty of the work of the judiciary, whether it is when we talk about prosecutors, whether it is in courts, whether it is individual and court. What in any case has not been a practice here so far in this House's work is that we comment on any verdicts. No one here has dared to talk about it, however, full of the right of counterpart Arsic to speak today about a judge of the Cassation Court who went public and made his views known in a certain way that they are personal, professional, however, it is a public debate and can be debated. It's not just any pressure. It also reminds us of certain rules that exist in terms not only of how judges are legally elected, but also of what their relationship is in terms of what they will say in the media, how they will behave, because their dignity is practically something that represents one part, one of the most important branches in the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. In that sense, I would also like to appeal these days to messages coming from certain opposition political representatives who declare it this way, I really don't understand it, he says – if prosecutors and judges do not respond, we will have to act alone. I don't know what that means. That they will take into their own hands the ability to judge, to make prosecutorial decisions and to practically destroy another pillar of government, or to collapse another symbol of Serbia's statehood. In this context, I think that their agenda is precisely that, not to call SNS or the MPs coming from that SNS, but to continue to discredit the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in this way in a weak and international position of the Republic of Serbia and, in practice, we have watched certain reports that came from European statements and that they are looking forward to certain things, not to show some concern, etc., which speaks enough about the way that, God forbid, tomorrow they would come to power again in how they would treat institutions, as they did to the resources they abused, in terms of natural resources and all others. I'd also like to say something about the election in this case for the Supreme Cassation Court. We elected Mrs. Vasovic here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia but at the end of the procedure, and I think it is also important to point out that she received unanimous support from the general session and all 40 judges. Therefore, we have practically determined a certain will among all the judges who are in the Cassation Court. I don't see what's going on here at all. Therefore, we have just confirmed what the internal decision was and I see it as in some way supporting everything that this institution, which is the most important judicial institution itself, has failed. What were we supposed to be against to prove now that I don't know democracy or show my power? Well, we've just confirmed what you've defined yourself in a certain way and that's what's crucial to point out here. There's a lot of manipulation about this and how in the media that are controlled by opposition structures, who are trying to honor us here that we have an impact on the choice of judges. Absolutely not, but we also have the right before the beginning of each session to say that we are asking to separate the vote, that it is not a general vote, because we have certain knowledge, we know that certain, let me say, candidates simply don't meet, let's say, not general, but, let's say, special conditions, in terms of what they were doing before that, in which way they acted on certain other functions or did some work. We have to act. So we're going to give someone support as a percentage of someone, it seems to me that we're over 95% and those candidates who should first be elected here at the National Assembly, which is also one percent that's amazing. Therefore, what is important in terms of this kind and the story, that we expect from all the first-chosen ones, to say, the judge and those who judge today to work effectively, to work bravely, as Mrs Vasovic said, I read her interview in "Politicals" I think he is very credible, that he covered all of what practically today most colleagues have said and responded to all of these dilemmas in terms of certain abuses as to how certain judges behave. Also, in that sense of the word, I must say that somehow all these negativity comes from this other pain of the opposition political, where it is criticised through these media this kind of story that I was just telling. I must say, I too have expectations from both prosecutors and judges that they are more effective at fighting crime and corruption, especially in the face of a story that implies crime that exists today, but crime that existed yesterday. Therefore, we have not processed all those tycoons that during the past period have abused all institutions during the former regime. On this occasion, I would point out, surely, that two Gilas and the Scholaks, who were dwindling in two ways. One of them was scurrying for seconds, and the other one was on the canals, and together they were doing their best to dig up as much as possible, let's say, the sewers where they were going to put the cables for their cable TVs. It would be very interesting to look at today, and I think that the investigative bodies can do that, today there are different tools and software that can measure everything, what are these, what are they, the sewers, or whatever is underground, which are cables set up, who was putting up these cables, who was abusing all that kind of story? It's not just criminal responsibilities tomorrow for these judges who will be in charge of criminal sanctions, it's also criminal responsibilities and everything else. Who in the Republic of Serbia has ever questioned it, and someone has created such an enormous wealth. Here, yesterday, the European Parliament is proposing that these TVs, cable operators that two brothers per wallet, in this case, invest in a joint business, now raise to national frequency, so that the value of this job rises ten times to a higher level and that they live better than that. All politics and ideology have come down to how public resources continue to be robbed. I say once again, it would be great from the municipality to the municipality of Serbia, to see what is underground and who was putting under the ground certain cables and how someone made such a network, and didn't pay a dinar to a certain local self-government, not to say that the "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia is extremely damaged by that kind of story. You know how, in terms of digitisation, the "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia today, it rents its logistics, its own base, to other operators and the state-owned company has income through dividends, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can expect something for themselves. What can they expect from certain channels tomorrow, to say, cable companies that will leave voluntarily? Nothing, to set up, like this, illegally not to answer for it, that no judge of the criminal court is responding to the basic court because there is no responsibility at the state level. That's where any local self-government can do whatever it wants and no one's ever questioned and investigated it. One software that can record everything down there, the cameras that can do it, can in every city determine what resources every municipality has in the sense of that story, but also determine who it is and when it's set up. That's what makes extra profit. That's what millions are making, these millions are getting out of the state of Serbia in exotic places. Although they had so much responsibility and self-awareness, so much extra profit, that abuse they had, that they invested here in Serbia. No, they took that money out, and they didn't even create it with that robbed money, maybe new jobs, so maybe it would be less responsibility because it would be considered an extenuating circumstance in some court procedure that would be valid. But no one's ever scratched that yet. Why? Because they're afraid it's going to be in these media tomorrow, whether it's written media, whether it's electronic media, so that some judge will be called under the influence of the advances. Now, this tool is used in media for blackmail and practical racketeering so as not to open things that have long been buried underground. We'll dig up every crime you've ever committed. We will not settle down from these speakers until what you have abused and those resources that you have destroyed in the Republic of Serbia, we are forced to clean up, and you are brought to justice. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6253	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Marian looks at the clock, thinks it's a little, eight minutes to two.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6254	Can I see the president later, after my break, because I need more?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6255	How much do you need?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6256	It'll take 15, 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6257	You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6258	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Pantic, the honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing candidates for the first time to elect judges to take office. All candidates, as we have seen from the biography, have met the criteria and criteria for selecting judges in the first order of expertise, training and dignity, except for one piece that has been challenged today. Let me say it wasn't in the past. The former regime's party, Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic, did not adhere to the criteria prescribed by the laws, but only adhered to one single criterion, which is party membership. That's why the judiciary, then during their rule, was the worst in Europe. That's not what I'm saying, that's what European officials say at the time. The judiciary during Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic were in desperate shape. That's the easiest grade. When I say in a desperate state, then let me say that five judges committed suicide because of their personneling, and at least 20 got sick and died because of re-election. Without functions, respected citizens, 837 judges and 200 deputy prosecutors were left, with the greatest view of their expertise, training and dignity. The judiciary moved, during their rule, from unremembered scandals in the staffing and exorcising of judges to the imbalance of criminal acts. Some, as I said, have died of injustice, but the Gilas judiciary in the election of judges has made one of the biggest scandals in the history of the judiciary, not in the history of the Serbian judiciary, but in the history of the world's judiciary, whether they choose, believe it or not, but it is true that the dead Judge Ljubisa Djuric of Požega is a judge. Look at the wonders, Gilas' chairman of the Nata Mesarovic High Council, who was told by counterpart Arsic, said that all candidates were checked and that she spent it talking to candidates for 200 hours. It's a month's work. I'm gonna keep asking her in this high house, as long as she doesn't answer, and she's been answering these days, how could she have talked to a dead judge? Furthermore, how can Mr. Djilas, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic explain that they also chose Sonja Brkic as judge? It was Sonja Brkic who violated the Law on Judges, because at the same time, believe it or not, but it was true, she served as Judge of the Supreme Court and President of the RIK's office. As you know, Judges and Honorable People's MPs, the Law on Judges has explicitly forbidden it. Sonja Brkic in RIK thus illegally took 2,673,000 dinars and refused to return that money. It was a picture and an opportunity of Gilas's judiciary, which he says these days should be independent, and now you will see in a further statement that it was independent during his rule. Just to quote, the European Commission's 2010 report said, quote: "The reform implemented by the government in Serbia, so Gilasova, Tadic and Jeremic is a special concern. The judges' re-election process was non-transparent, risking the principle of independence. “ It adds: “The reforms that the authorities carried out were like the worst possible thing, ” finished the quote. It is in a book called "The Reform of Justice in Serbia from 2008 to 2012" on page 96, and translated by Belgrade's "Politika" in 7.7.2012. Dear People's MPs, Mr Selakovic's arrival as justice minister changes the situation drastically for the better. It was continued during Ms. Kuburovic and during the current minister. It will take a lot more effort and a lot of water to pass through the Danube to keep our judiciary at an envious level, because in the system of justice, Gilas and his buddies left judges who had no basic conditions of choice, one large part of their expertise, no training, and least dignity. Let me say a few more sentences. According to the president of the Justice Unions, at the beginning of the 2008 reform, the judiciary of Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, Jeremic and others had 780,000 pending cases. So at the start of the reform, and at the end of 2012, when they completed the reform, instead of reducing from 780,000, they increased to three million pending cases. With SNS coming to power, already in 2019, the number was reduced to double, to 1.500,000. So they carried out judicial reforms, and so the judiciary seemed during Dragan Gilas, because he said when he arrived, he said he would carry out reforms in the judiciary the day before yesterday. He'd probably do it like he did it. Dear President, don't be angry, I need to take another few minutes to ask 27 questions to Dragan Gilas and I will never calm down in this high house until he answers these questions publicly on his own, he can answer "N1 whose TV". First question, is it true that you, Mr. Gilas, falsely accused the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic and the current government and the state of Serbia of being fascist, when you said, quote: "The day I change this power we will celebrate as another day of victory over fascism"? It's a finished quote. Mr. Gilas, in front of the public, please answer if this is your relationship to most citizens who have chosen Mr. Alexander Vukic, and is this your relationship with the state of Serbia? The second question, is it true, Mr. Gilas, that after you returned from the United States, and these days you went with the same goal, you held a meeting with the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia in the Chapanese bar Moravski alasa, on 4 July 2018, where all the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, where you agreed to launch protests to bring down Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic on the subject of Kosovo, not the elections, but the street? Instead, respected citizens, to bring down President Vukic, you should have, Mr Gilas, agreed on how to get Kosovo back where you drove him away from. Is it true that you then said: “If we throw out the dialogue from the congregation, then as a society, we have a problem? The assembly is where they talk. If we stop all the media, they'll explode somewhere. And who needs a parliament, give them some sense. “ A quote has been completed. Dear citizens, you see who destroyed the parliamentary system in the state of Serbia and the state of Serbia. He is not in favour of the parliamentary system at all, and his co-worker, Professor Micunovic, confirmed it as well. The third question, is it true, Mr. Gilas, that you are constantly trying to fight us with steel friends of the Chinese, and that on August 17, 2020, you said, and of course you lied, as you lie daily, quote: "Are we going to receive a Chinese vaccine that no one will receive in Europe?" It's a finished quote. Many Europeans are receiving the Chinese vaccine today. Do you feel at least a little ashamed, Mr. Gilas, of these lies, when you work against the health of our citizens at a time when our President Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens, the crisis headquarters, our heroes doctors, nurses and others are fighting an immeasurable battle for the health of our citizens and our country? The fourth question, is it true that you, Mr. Gilas, when Serbia was the third largest country in Europe began to inject its citizens with a letter, a complaint, normally, in Brussels where you complained that there was no reliable data in Serbia about when and by what vaccines the citizens of the Republic of Serbia would be vaccinated, which was a notorous lie, because our citizens were informed about the vaccination, as you saw, respected citizens, the best in Europe? The fifth question, is it true that you, Mr Gilas, again sent a letter to the European Commission on 16 September 2020, falsely accusing President Aleksandr Vukic and the state of Serbia that we did not become part of the Kovaks mechanism at the moment when President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia agreed to pay an advance for the purchase of vaccines and thus misrepresented both President Vukic and the state of Serbia? Mr. Gilas, why are you doing this? Why are you doing this and doing damage to your own country and citizens of the Republic of Serbia? The sixth question, is it true that you, Mr Gilas, have sued the European Commission, Alexander Vukic, for his gratitude to the Chinese for the help given to us by our steel friends to the Chinese, and so, for who knows which time, you have shown that you have no morals, you have no shame when it comes to the disgrace of President Vukic and our country? The seventh question, is it true that you, Mr. Gilas, said on 13 August 2009 in a conversation with the US Embassy's emissary of business in Belgrade, Jennifer Bras, "I am in favour of arresting Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo"? As you can see, respected Serbian citizens, Gilas gave up Kosovo in 2009. It's his relationship to the country. The eighth question, is it true, Mr. Gilas, that you said bahato on 13 August 2020, I quote: "I paid for the hotel 4000 euros, and I can pay 17,000 euros for a villa at sea and shoes 5,000 euros," finished the quote? I ask you a question, Mr. Gilas, where did you get all this money, and you were in political office at the time? Teach the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Gilas, how much money is coming so fast. The ninth question, is it true that you, Mr Gilas, on May 5, 2020 brutally insulted President Vukic by calling him a lunatic, as you said to the N1-CIA, shouting, "You're crazy", at the question of journalist Jacqueline Tatalovic: "Will you change that? "You, Mr. Gilas, I quote, "I'm going to turn that up" and then repeat it a few times, "I'm going to drag you crazy." That, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is not for Gilas or for any reason. Who insults whom, the respected citizens of Serbia? Is Gilas and his associates or us MPs or President Alexander Vukic? The tenth question, is it true that you, Mr Gilas, on January 20, 2018 brutally insulted President Vukic with a sentence from the bottom of the river, when you said, quote: "Vučić, you are crazy", just because Alexander Vukic as president of the state went to Kosovo and Metohija and spoke to our martyrs, i.e. With a fallen Serb people in our southern Serbian province? Why are you insulting, Mr. Gilas, whether because of your haughtiness and your 619m euros in income pumped out of citizens' pockets or because, as we have seen, in 2009, you gave up our southern Serbian provinces and hatred for President Vukic? It will be, dear citizens, that it is both both and third. The 11th question, is it true, Mr Gilas, that on August 27, 2018, you brutally, unworthy of a man, insulted President Vukic when you said, quote: "Vucic has mental problems, some disorders" and said, "A shame on you, Vukic. Wolfie, you're a crazy man." There, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia insult Dragan Gilas. Do you know why the Jiqi Mafia told the president? Just because President Vukic is building "Belgrade on Water" with the Serbian government and citizens, he told him that, as one of the ugliest parts of Belgrade built the most beautiful promenade in this part of Europe and became one of the largest sites in this part of Europe. The 12th question, is it true that you, Mr. Gilas, without any reason, once again, on April 11, 2020, who knows which time, brutally offended President Vukic when you said, quote, "Wolf, you're not normal"? Did you say that, Mr. Gilas, because President Vukic has no income of 619m euros, and no account in Mauritius, Zurich, the Netherlands, Bulgaria and 17 other countries, as you, Mr. Gilas, have? The 13th question, is it true that you, Mr Gilas, with your colleague from the same party, one of the members of the international gang of thieves and frauds, Vuk Jeremic in 2008, without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, requested the transfer of the Kosovo issue from the United Nations to the European Union and thus brought the Eulex mission to Kosovo and Metohija, and thus put the knife in the back of its own people and the state of Serbia? Is that how you defend your country's honor, Mr. Gilas? The fourteenth question, is it true, and it is true, because the witnesses of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that you, Mr. Gilas, together with your friends in the image of Bozidar Djelic, Bojan Pajtic, Vuk Jeremic and others, carried out a savage robbery privatisation and brought our country to the brink of bankruptcy and left it to Aleksandra Vukic, SNS and coalition partners to draw it from the deepest crisis in Serbia's recent history? The 15th question, is it true, and it is true that you, Mr. Gilas, on 16 April 2020, verbally and mediaically attacked Alexander Vukic, Dr. Kona, the Crisis Staff, just because they protected the lives of our citizens when you said, quote: "I am shocked by what Dr. Kon said. Doctor, what's going on with you? You said that without the support of the government and President Vukic, we would personally be in a disaster. What kind of support are you talking about for the government and Alexander Vukic? What has this government done? What do you support? "Mr. Gilas, after a year, do you have all these lies and do you have at least a little shame or time to apologize to Dr. Con, President Vukic, the Crisis Staff and the others? Of course you don't, because you have a lot of work to do, to take care of the fabulous money in Mauritius and the 17 other countries you stole from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The 16th question, is it true, and it is true that you, Mr. Gilas, in 2011 while you were mayor of Belgrade illegally sold four cable channels of your "Arena Sport" "Telecom Serbia" for 7.7m euros, even though Telecom Serbia was not then allowed to own the media? Are those 7.7m euros, Mr. Gilas, perhaps in the accounts of Mauritius, Zurich or Bulgaria? The 17th question, is it true that you, Mr Gilas, on December 12, 2020, had 620,000 euros in the accounts of your company's branches in Zurich? The 18th question, is it true that you, Mr. Gilas, on December 12, 2012 had 5,730,000 euros on your company's accounts in Mauritius and that you and your brother Gojko were account users at these destinations? I'm undermining -- they're account users. Question number 19. - is it true, and it is true that actor Sergey Trifunovic gave you the best rating of your political moral personality when he said on July 16, 2020, quote: "Gilasu is the main tool in the policy money that solves everything and buys political favor," the quote concluded. Question 20. - Is it true, Mr. Gilas, that we are informed by "Evening News" that you have 53 accounts and on them 67.9 million dollars and that this amount was deposited in October 2020 and that the financial scheme is difficult from Mauritius, America, Macedonia, Croatia, Switzerland, Bulgaria, Montenegro, Serbia, Cyprus, Moldova and, behold, Hong Kong? This is what I underline to Hong Kong, because the 21st question is, did you, in Kong, Mr. Gilas, meet with party colleague Vuk Jeremic, where he also operated with members of the international group of thieves and frauds, Emilio Lozo, chief finance officer Vuk Jeremic, and Patrick Ho, former Minister of Interior of Hong Kong, and Tidija Gadija, convicted of his time in the United States for money laundering? Question 22. - Is it true that we are informed by Evening News that you as former mayor of Belgrade have hidden huge money in 17 countries around the world? Question number 23. - Is it true that you, Mr Gilas, met in Macedonia on 8 February 2019 with criminals and thieves from Miami, where you agreed on the functioning of the opposition in Serbia to bring down President Vukic and bring to power not by election, but by street, by opposition, where you received certain and financial funds to finance "One of the Five Million" with the aim of ousting President Vukic? That's how that fake "One Out of Five Million" movement came about. Question number 24. - is it true that you, Mr. Gilas and your political electric rabbit, Marinika Tepic, spit on the victims of Jasenovac when you were in the duet licking the announcement of a tweeter saying that Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic is a sick person and that he should only be treated for watching the film Predrag Gage Antonijevic "Dara from Jasenovac", because, as the president said, the film is difficult and important for our people who have suffered. This tweeter was particularly angry that President Vukic said that the realization of the film took place on his initiative. Question 25. - Is it true that Verica Barac has exposed the ways in which you, Mr Gilas, as mayor of Belgrade, have made a fortune in public tendering for your private firms and your party comrades? Question 26. Is it true, and it is true that Verica Baraic said that you, Mr. Gilas, had your own private firms as mayor of Belgrade and that you were constantly doing business with the budget and that you laundered huge money? Lastly, 27, is it true, Mr. Gilas, that you were in control of the media, and you're accusing us of some kind of media control in Serbia, by buying minutes, paying off and so affecting the media, and that you were in control of daily newspapers, buying space in the media and censorship of newspapers? Dear citizens, these days on a daily basis, in the end, Gilas attacks President Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Skuština of the Republic of Serbia through their controlled media, bring brutal lies. I end up, Mr. President, with one quote from Mr. Switton, former chief of staff at the New York Times, who said on a toast, quote: "The job of a journalist is to destroy the truth, to lie openly, to twist, to abuse, to bow down, to bow down before a golden calf and sell their own land and people to earn bread. Everybody knows that. We are the tools and servants of the rich behind the scenes. We're puppets. They're pulling strings, and we're dancing. Our talent, our opportunities and our lives are owned by other people. We're intellectual prostitutes. “ A quote has been completed. Dear press and media journalists under the control of Gilas, read this quote and imagine yourself. Imagine yourself. Imagine yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6259	Thank you. Since there are no more statements for the word, no more MPs, no more representatives of the parliamentary groups, no more no more promoters, I am concluding a joint single search. I'm setting a break to 1520 hours. We continue to discuss the details of the Law on Culture and the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports. The vote is expected to be around 1800 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. Like I said, I'm opening a search in detail. First item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on culture pursuant to Article 90(1) I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Maja Gojković, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, I welcome her; Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports; Milan Savic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Youth and Sports; Darko Udovic, Assistant Minister of Youth and Sport; Vukica Kilibarda, acting as Secretary of the Ministry of Culture and Information; Radovan Jokić and Daniela Vanušić, Deputy Minister of Culture and Information; and Milija Lazarevic, acting as Secretary of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. I also welcome Minister Udovici. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture. You have received amendments submitted by the Government to the bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Culture and Information. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has the vice president and Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6261	Good afternoon, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear MPs, I am truly pleased to see you again in a short time. I want to thank you for participating in the debate in principle and for participating in the public debate held here on the Committee on Culture and Information and on which we agreed on a common need for amendments to the bill that was set before you. So there have been these amendments that we have today and that we are going to discuss here together, and they are all about the return of jurisdiction to the National Assembly, regarding the election of members of the National Council for Culture. Such remarks over the exclusion of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from this process were also in the public debate, apart from MPs, therefore, from the people who participated in public debates, and are representatives of the cultural public. Later, in talks with the Prime Minister and with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we agreed that the amendment responds to that basic proposal for amendments and additions, where the minister was to propose to the government, the government to elect members of the National Council for Culture. I think this is a better solution, however, and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, finally following the proposal of authorised promoters, and then making a list by the culture minister, will have the opportunity to plead with the proposed candidates. Article 16, in addition to that amendment, amended the proposal for national councils of national minorities and adopted a final proposal to be two members on the list, i.e. from the first four proposed. This will be co-ordinated by national councils of national minorities, but these two proposals by national minorities enter unchanged on the list on which you will finally plead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6262	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6263	President-in-Office of the Assembly, respected ministers, respected fellow Members, respected citizens, of course I support, I was at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, and I am specifically addressed to these amendments to the Law on Culture and these five amendments and, of course, to support them. Just once again to point out that the esteemed Minister Gojkovic has revived the ministry's work in both formal and essential terms. But unfortunately, the Ministry and the whole government, I have to tell you, and the whole state is facing new threats. They were said yesterday and a few days ago, we just need to connect two and two. So, we are faced with threats, states, governments and your ministry, surely, the Assembly and the president are faced with demands to meet one ultimatum on election terms by October 1st, so I'm informing you all about it. So these demands concern the most this Assembly and the ultimatum that the Gilasovites have made we need to meet by October 1st, and you know what will happen if we don't meet that ultimatum? They'll make a new 5th of October. So, as the Gilasovites want them to set up the entire National Council for Culture, when they want to forcefully take over, as they want all members of the boards of directors of the institutions of culture, so they announce in their ultimatum and demand that all editors of RTS be replaced, set up their own, replace the entire REM and place their members of REM. I'll remind you that RTS, at the same time, is a public service of culture. So, the Jilassian media and Gilasovci, all their media, were after meeting with European Commission mediators yesterday, i.e. The European Parliament announced that they would not compromise and only want an ultimatum. The headlines are the new RTS editors by October 1st or boycott. Gilas personally announced yesterday that he wanted to pass the law to get a national frequency for his N1 television. He asks the public service to introduce some kind of legal anti-innovation system couple-nepar where he and his Gilasovites would every other day edit the RTS programme, which is simply unseen. Gilas asks that he appoint all-powerful party commissioners, I quote him – a public firm trustee who will sit in municipalities and control, prevent and report. Who? Anyone they don't like, anyone they don't like. Gilas is looking for it, and he said it was nice yesterday to have it all done by October 1st. As you can see, there is no culture here at all, no desire for compromise, no desire for dialogue, but the ultimatum of a party that has 3.8% and five icabans of dwarf parties that are only garriung around the SAA. They say if it is not adopted it will boycott the election, but it is not the only threat. Of course, it's funny that two of those six parties took part in the election. Zelenovic's party and the PSG are threatening to boycott again. They didn't boycott the election at all. Gilasovci is also threatening and Gilas put it in a letter to the representatives of the European Commission. He announced at the end of his letter the street, protests and human sacrifices unless his demands were adopted. This new requirement for his private television, where he is co-owner, to get a national frequency, as we can see, has nothing to do with the election, and Gilas gave himself up there. Look, if he's looking for, and he's looking for, half of RTS, to be exact, so why would he need a frequency for his private US-Luxemburg subsidiary, Si-En-En, where is he co-owner of the School? It only has to do with his business, because he's co-owner along with Solak. Gilas wants to make millions more euros in the election. If his television gets a N1 frequency, it'll be worth five times more on the market, and if he gets that frequency, he'll make money on commercials that Gilas continues to trade through his many companies ten times as much. And they didn't accidentally, I said, choose October 1st as the date of the ultimatum, because they want to attack this assembly again, rekindle the Assembly, attack RTS, set it on fire and all that they did on October 5th 2000. Watch out, they had a rehearsal last July, when they attacked the Assembly and the rehearsal for all of this took place in March, when they attacked RTS. All of their demands, these six Jilassian parties, are against the law and volunteering. First, they point out his grampity and neglect his senses and laws. They see themselves as some god-given revolutionaries, montanarians, whose ultimatums must be adopted unspeakably. It's funny that these six parties have 5%. So they're looking for all editors and 50% program on RTS, and they have 5%. And if Gilas didn't care about the EU's views, be careful, which is pretty amazing because he keeps representing himself as a pro-European party, which he didn't, his attacks on the EU say. I'm just going to quote two of his last attacks. Day 2. In 02nd, the EU accused the United States of directly supporting Vukic in a project to introduce an alleged neo-fascist system. Watch out for that incredible accusation. Then a few days ago, it was 19. In 04, he insulted European Parliament mediators that they had brought down dialogue before it began, and a series of other insults. Gilas has repeated a series of lies on his N1 television, and I'm going to tell you this, which he likes to repeat, about how smart, creative and capable a businessman who can calculate 100 minus 20% and minus 20% and that he is dominant in that area. He was dominant in the area, to calculate how much of the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and Belgrade and RTS and Study B will steal. He was really dominant there. Black Gjiqi, did your parents educate you for that? The Faculty of Engineering paid you all that schooling, high school, to make him a dominant and expert on a percentage account, and that's the only thing he's dominant at, and to learn the only percentage bill, because it's the only way he can calculate how much percent he's going to steal. Of course, ten years ago Verica Barać revealed him when she said it was a scandal and that he was not in the market at all, but that he was exclusively over the DS on the budget and that his firm was a party firm. And his boastiness, that he was, like, a creative, businessman and capable, like if someone boasted that he was a big fisherman and hunted a fish with dynamite. I'll remind you that the Attorney General's Office of Organized Crime is in charge of investigating two responsible RTS officers and two Gilas directors on suspicion that they've organized a 688 million-dollar RTS robbery, and of course behind that robbery is the very smart, creative and capable Gilas. I'm going to mention another case that needs to be found in court, because it's really drastic. The case requires a review of at least 114 court proceedings that took place last year. What's this about? Gilas, three days ago on his favorite television, which he's looking for a frequency for, said that when we walk with him on the streets of the city, we only see how much he's loved, how much citizens love him, and how much support they give him. However, in the court of 2020, he testified 114 times, I was at one of those trials, that he could not pass through the street with even children, how much citizens hate and insult him. Since he chose this to be true, to be popular, that means that 114 times he lied in court. Just to let you know that there's a crime called perjury, false testimony in court, so Gilas would have to answer for this crime at least 114 times. From this show, we found out what Gilas really wanted, and that's what the manager asked him to do. We found out that he actually wants the prime minister's place. The mayor's seat has already been a small one, and for the president of Serbia, he must not run because he is a coward. And the manager asked him if you were the prime minister, like, what would he do? And he said -- I don't do politics to look at the function I'm going to be in tomorrow. So he wants to and already sees himself as prime minister. And how does he think he gets the post of prime minister? That's how Sasa Jankovic had dreams about the post of prime minister, but he had 16%, while Gilas had four times less votes than Sasa Jankovic. Here we come to the key sentence of Gilasova, which slipped away, probably accidentally speaking about his and Tadic's authority by 2012 – the people voted for this power in 2012 because it was not good enough during the previous government. But as if he had amnesia, he forgot that he was the mayor for five years, the minister and that he was the deputy president of the most powerful then Democratic Party and that he was exactly the one responsible for not being good enough for the citizens. So we've seen what we've experienced, which is positive. Nine years after he came down with power, Gilas had the strength to admit that he was misruly in power. And probably nine years from now, about 2030, Gilas will admit he robbed 619m euros. What's interesting is, Gilas is at the end of the show, when the host asked him about some thesis, some Wolf Velebit, that he's a favorite Vucician candidate because he doesn't stand a chance at the election, Gilas practically admitted it because he said that Marinika had a chance at the election. So he doesn't, but Marinika has a chance at the election. Therefore, the question arises, as he said he loves Marinika very much, that he values her, that she respects her, that she is the most popular opposition politician, if that is so, why does Gilas not stand up as the head of the SP party, Marinika Tepic? Why not let her, since she is the most popular politician in the opposition, in his words, why not let her lead the opposition? It seems that Dragan Gilas does not have so much confidence in this shameless flyover who, otherwise, has overridden and much more experienced politicians than Gilas and Chanka and Jankovic and Zivkovic, etc. For the end, it is simply that Gilas is so frustrated and complicated by his failures and compromises, Vucic's ventures and successes in all fields. Gilas is scared of the choices that come, and that's why he threatens the streets and the violence. It's just, it's a reflection of impotence, it's powerless. He is jealous, eventually, because President Vukic treats Serbia, builds Serbia, vaccinates Serbia, raises Serbia. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6264	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6265	Dear MP, I understand you saying that with the ultimatums of government in the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the National Assembly yesterday, the ultimatums and deadlines have to be fulfilled by 1 or 5 October of this year, but we all know that Serbia is responding to ultimatums through our history, so I don't believe that anyone here can be more blackmailed with certain non-democratic proposals. I now understand that they intend to, or Dragan Gilas, intend to choose the Council for Culture of the Republic of Serbia. Okay, he had it and he was doing it during a previous period while his party, DS, had the support of Serbian citizens, and now the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will work. I am convinced that much better promoters than Dragan Gilas, this institution of culture, are the serious cultural institutions listed here in Article 16 as future promoters after the adoption of your amendments and the addition of the laws, which is certainly the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, for example. or the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the National Archives of Serbia, the National Museum of Serbia, the National Library of Serbia, the National Theatre in Belgrade, the Yugoslav Cinematheque, of course, the Mother of Serbs and national councils of national minorities. So I am convinced that his intention is to be the master of everything again and everything in Serbia won't go away because, in the end of the day, even in the first instance, Serbian citizens are asking a question in democratic elections, and they have already said several times that they want to vote and that Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, SNS and our coalition partners are ruling and I don't know what's not clear about it. The public service arrangement is just some regret about the past, since we all know what it looked like. Thank you for reminding the public that there are still certain criminal proceedings against associates Dragan Gilas who used to work at the Public Service. Maybe they're working now. I don't really deal with their fate, and I don't want to comment on the proceedings, because that's what's forbidden before the legal outcome, but I just want to remind myself that Dragan Gilas, on the day of freedom of the media, gave a statement that should scare just the messengers of the public rumors, because in that statement, he only knows that he knows that from some certain Gilasovic heights to journalists of the first and second order, to those who respond more to him or those who respond less to him, how he treats the media, so what kind of democracy he wants to introduce in this country, shows that he doesn't want to answer the questions concerning him, his property, to a policy he would conduct in the country when someone, someone slows down and votes for Dragan Gilas. First of all, he insults them, presses charges against them, or announces them, threatens them. We are all witnessing that the journalist of "Evening News" who raised the issue of his assets outside the borders of our country and whether or not he was paying taxes on that property and huge profits, and how it succeeded as a politician who performed his duty, the same way that politicians should do, gained the enormous material benefit he has. Of course, we saw that she was chiced, insulted by being a woman. Secondly, it was commented on its appearance and the third, of course, disqualified because it believes that "evening news", if they are dealing with investigative journalism and ask him something, and it is about him, as a public figure, as a politician, regardless of what is currently or this moment a little longer in opposition, that they have the right to ask him on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the readers. We've seen how Dragan Gilas and those who support him imagine even dialogue. The dialogue means that it is a desire to talk to the two sides, and Dragan Gilas apparently imagines that dialogue is something that he is conducting a dialogue with himself, that he sets the conditions and then responds to what he will accept and what he will not accept. My request, although I know that October 5th will never happen again in our country, and everything ugly that symbolized that October 5th, only the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to leave alone and to stay on the walls of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not to disappear as they disappeared in those events on October 5th and at the most on October 6th and 7th when there was no more police security in this assembly and when Serbian citizens lost their works of art, not only of material but of enormous value. It's a cultural treasure that belongs to each of us. While I was president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I held on to make an exhibition that reminded the citizens of Serbia that on October 5th and the events that followed the missing and valuable pictures of our great artists from Lubarda, by Zora Petrovic, Milic Mačva, Konjevic, etc. and to this day we haven't found them, and perhaps if Dragan Gilas or someone who participated in October 5th knows where they are, they should leave them calmly in front of the Assembly, and may not dream that they will ever again be able to repeat what they did in this building that represents all the citizens of Serbia, and not just those who vote for Dragan Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6266	Thank you. The word is Biljana Jakovljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6267	President-in-Office of the Assembly, respected members of the government with associates, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Culture Act has been in force since September 2009, and with application it began in March 2010. After the adoption of the Cultural Act, the adoption of sublegal acts that have improved the complete Cultural Act, i.e. the complete cultural system, followed. We talked here last week about the goals that need to be achieved in order to make this act better and even better, and today we are talking about amendments that are also meant to improve this law and a complete cultural system at all. When we talk about culture, I can't help but point out that since 2012, the cultural system has really been booming. In all places, Serbia's territory was being built and built from the cultural area, starting with a magnificent monument to Stefan Nemania, which today is one of the most attractive tourist destinations for our tourist visitors, then the National Museum, which has been renovated for many years, has also been working and building on the whole territory of Serbia. Also, when we talk about culture as a representative of the people and, of course, the ruling party, I cannot talk about a cultural offer that is really much better than the previous years and, of course, better for all generations, especially for young people. I had a chance to talk to the young people in my town of Chačka, with young people from the Youth Office, and to hear their impressions that the truly cultural content in our city is much richer and much more entrenched. Also, the co-operation between the Youth Office and youth associations and local self-government in our city is much better than the previous few years before 2012. All their ideas are being generated through the support of our local self-government. We are aware that we still have a lot to do for our young people in order to preserve them not only in our city, but also in our country, and I think that the best way to preserve our young people's conversation with young people and interact with young people is to hear their ideas and their needs and help them realize them. When we talk about the cultural offer, I cannot mention that our town of Cačak will visit this summer the famous violinist Stefan Milenković, who in the two-week stay will hold a master class for all the students of the school violin both world and our home and we will have the opportunity, if God so, that on the new amphitheater, the square in Ovčar banja to hear Stefan Milenković's concert and now when I mention Ovčar Banj, too, I cannot highlight the cultural offer, or rich culture and history of our Ovčar Banja and Ovčar-cabral clisure, which is rich not only with its natural beauty, thoughtras, healing water known as the Serbian world of mountains with 11 monasteries, and also Ovcar Banja is rich in its historical and cultural heritage and thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, we will finally get the lost glory of our Ovcar. Since culture is our mark and our identity we are all obliged to cultivate our cultural goods, so in the day of voting with great pleasure to support both the Law on Culture and the above-mentioned amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6268	Thank you. Let's move on. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6269	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am reporting following an amendment to the amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture. The Committee on Culture and Information, whose president is our colleague Sandra Christmas, proposes to the National Assembly to accept amendments to the article as well. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 11. We have considered the bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Culture before the Easter holidays, and this way I would like to congratulate today's great glory to all citizens who celebrate today's glory. The Culture Act has been in force since September 2009, and I remind you that the first amendments to the Culture Act were made in 2016, and other amendments to this law were made in 2020. In the Culture Act, it lays down 30 days from the adoption of budgets to call public competitions for funding or co-financing of cultural programmes and projects, as well as artistic, professional and scientific research in culture. The aim of the amendment of this law is to extend this deadline to 60 days in order to leave a longer deadline for the founders to prepare all necessary documentation for the opening of public competitions, primarily given that it is now a common practice to adopt the republican budget at the end of the fiscal year, meaning at the end of November or early December, and therefore has more time for the founder to prepare a public competition. For the first time in our history, this law provides for the adoption of a strategic document that would determine on fundamental principles the development of our culture in the next period, more specifically a strategy for cultural development, so by adopting an amendment that provides for this law, which concerns the determination of the obligation to adopt a strategy for the development of culture in the government, there will be adequate conditions for the full application of this law in our legal system. It is necessary that all laws and sublegal acts in the field of culture be uniform and that, together, it enables further development of these areas of social life. With regard to his entry into force in the meantime and the Law on Archival Construction and Archival Action, which has now been given the new name of Serbia's state archive, it is necessary to implement this amendment in the Law on Culture. The institutions of culture, according to the Law on Culture, acquire the property of a legal person by enrolment in the court register. In this way, cultural institutions represent a rare legal person who is not enrolled in the Agency for Economic Registers, as an authority that is otherwise competent to run the law of established registers as a single centralised electronic database. The aim of this law is to enroll the cultural institutions in the register of institutions run by the Agency for Economic Registers instead of applying so far to court registers. The court register of cultural institutions will include data and documents, as well as the change and erasure of data and documents in accordance with this law, the rules laid down for the implementation of this law and the law governing the administration procedure in the APR. In this way, it will allow cultural institutions to have equal status with all other bodies that gain legal personality by enrolling in this body. The adoption of this law also achieves the objectives which are specifically related to raising the quality of management staff in our cultural institutions and, above all, to improve the procedures for selecting cultural directors in public competitions, strengthening co-operation and better co-ordination of management boards and founders, when calling and conducting public competitions for the selection of cultural institutions directors. The existing solution of the Law on Culture must have at least three members, while the maximum number of members of this body has not been established, which creates the possibility of different solutions in practice. The aim is to balance the membership of our cultural institutions' boards through the establishment of a single number of board members from five members. The current situation is also with the supervisory boards, with a solution by which they have at least three members under these amendments limited to three members. With this addition of the law, as well as with the further implementation of the existing provisions of this law which the Management Boards have committed to clearly explain the reasons why they did not call public competitions within the specified deadline, but also through the prohibition of the possibility of the same person being more than once the VD director and for the longest period of one year, I believe that the conditions for quality application of the selection of directors in public competitions will be improved. Also, the Law on Culture recognizes an independent artist as a bearer of activity of general interest in culture. More specifically, given the fact that it is of interest for the state that independent artists create as much as possible and thus produce artistic creations that eventually become part of the cultural heritage, it is necessary to establish through this law some incentives and relief for their work. This primarily refers to the possibility of payment of contributions to PIO and contributions to health insurance units of local self-government, territorial autonomy units to independent artists. What was a problem in the practical application of this solution concerns the fact that this legal struggle is an option, but not the obligation of local self-government, and this in practice leads to unequal application. In practice, some units of local self-government respected this possibility and others did not, which is why a large number of independent artists were physically changing the address of their residence and thus achieved this legal possibility for other local self-government units to pay them contributions. In this regard, in particular, it burdens the budget of the city of Belgrade and other major cities, as they regularly paid contributions, so many independent artists from other parts of the country have fictitiously applied to the address in Belgrade, Novi Sad and other major cities, which is certainly not a good solution. Among other things, for the development of the concept of decentralisation of our culture. Since I come from the Municipality of Negotin, Mokranjce's hometown, I must mention the sustainability and importance of the festival "The Wets of the Days" which have been going on for 55 years and this time I call for the opening of this year's "The Mokranjce days" to Minister Maja Gojkovic, if of course the epidemiological situation to allow us. The programme concept preserves the idea of a manifestation whose basic mission is to promote the creation of the most important Serbian composer Stevan Stojanović Wekranjc and contribute to the affirmation of his and at all Serbian music creation, with an emphasis on the cultivation of chorus tradition. The festival is realized by the Municipality of Negotin and Dom of Culture "Stevan Mokranjac", and around it are the capacities and programs of other non-China institutions, primarily the museum of the final and the Mokranjce monument of the house, as well as the tourist entities located in the Municipality of Negotin. As far as cultural tourism potentials are concerned, the spatial cultural and historical continent of the Rajački pivnica, the decision of the Assembly of the Municipality of Negotin in 1983 was declared to be a cultural good of exceptional importance, which was confirmed by the decision to confirm for cultural well-being, of exceptional importance published in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. The complex of Rajačske pivnica with Rogljevska, within Negotinski Pivnica, is located on the preliminary list of protected cultural heritage UNESCO since 15 April 2010. I will support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, with all amendments. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6270	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Jelica Sretenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6271	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members of Parliament, I am talking about an amendment to the second article on amendments to the Law on Culture. The National Council is educated as a professional advisory body that should provide permanent professional support to the National Assembly, the Ministry of Culture and Government in the preservation and expansion of culture. It is very good that the election for members of the National Council for Culture is returned to the Assembly Hall among MPs. Members of the Council should be selected from the ranks of prominent and affirmative artists. In the previous period, the National Council for Culture encountered problems with the appointment of individual members, so it has not established its work for several years. The Minister of Culture in the National Assembly said that the Law on Culture is a system law and that any amendment or addition of any member of this law has a direct impact on the functioning of the system of our culture, which is of great importance to this act. Otherwise, the addition of the Law on Culture has several important changes. Great praise for local self-government paying contributions to PIO and contributions to health insurance to independent artists. Many local self-governments have so far failed to do so, making part of the independent artists apply in Belgrade and Novi Sad, who have reconciled these obligations to free artists. Commendation also for obtaining a legal person in cultural institutions with the Agency for Economic Registers. So far, the enrolment has been with economic courts, which has been more complicated and lengthened. With new changes, the enrolment has been made easier. At the time of the pandemic, Serbia fought well, unfortunately, we lost many significant artists, but managed to reach 1.01 for the rebalancing culture at the most difficult times. This shift is very important and I want to believe that when the proposed budget comes in next year this percentage will increase. I want to believe. That would be an indication that we're moving forward without hesitation. The financial effort to help free artists and money is also praised, but by amending this law, the Ministry of Culture and Informing has denied the right to propose to the National Council representative associations that have thousands of professional and informed artists from all fields of cultural action: literary creation, art, applied, visual design and architecture, music creation, theatre and film art and art games. All these associations are representative and would be fully valid to have the right to propose their members for the National Council of Culture and thus participate in the country's cultural policy through their authorised representatives and provide the necessary support to the preservation, development and expansion of culture in Serbia and beyond its borders. In the proposal of the Ministry of Professional Associations at the National Council, the main republican institutions would propose, which would mean that the Association of Drama Artists would be entrusted with the National Theatre to propose from the ranks of drama artists a member. Let's make it that way, but it can if it's binding. If it is binding to join the National Council a member of a representative association, why would the association not propose a member? With all the praise for the addition of the Law on Culture, this about the National Council and the Professional Association is not very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6272	Thank you. Minister, you have no right to make an amendment, just once. So on the next one. You have no right, but we'll figure it out the next way. Since no one wants a word on this amendment anymore, we move on to Article 3. The amendment was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Now that I've been warned that the proposings are entitled to two minutes after the amendment, that's why I've moved on to the second amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6273	I forgot those rules so quickly, but I'll be back in shape, I promise. I'll just have a quick reply to the MPs. I'm glad you noticed that this important change that simply in public is not sufficiently verifiable as something good, that these amendments and additions to the law introduce the mandatory payment of social and health insurance to free artists, because it is in the law of an existing, valid one anomaly, that someone writes – you can pay. If they offered me to pay or not to pay some utility services and write – you can, in human nature, say – well, that's an option that I don't have to fulfill and thus free artists in most municipalities in Serbia are seriously threatened. They didn't have health insurance, they didn't have social security. The challenge is in front of the state to determine how much money it takes to pay the state social and health insurance for the previous period. We have now regulated that when the law is passed and effective, there will be no problem with the payment of social and health care. We now face a great challenge to see what to do with the period where free artists remained simply punished and unequal compared to free artists from Novi Sad and Belgrade who regularly paid that obligation. I say, your remark stands. I am aware that this is a radical solution to try and get the National Council for Culture again at all, because for many years it has not worked out, nor have we succeeded here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to get relevant proposals and we have stepped on six members of the existing 19 and never has the National Council for Culture been established. There was indeed an extremely large number of promoters who obviously could not agree on one or two proposals and there was a general chaos and there was this huge problem that Serbia was a country that had a provision in law that had to have a National Council for Culture and formed it, and in practice it did not liven up at all. I hope these cultural institutions of the Republic have this awareness developed that they are not proposing to propose themselves or only employees from their cultural institutions, because it is not the tendency of the legislator to amend and supplement laws, but that they should propose the best from areas that they, as parent houses, cover. We'll see what it looks like, and their own suggestions will talk about their artistic maturity, and if they just rightly have the privilege of offering people from theatre art, film art, music. I'm saying, every law and every amendment and addition to the law is not something that's been assigned forever, even though they're checking time, and that's going to be the first choice for the National Council of Culture, this doesn't go away, we're going to work together to find an even better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6274	Thank you. Jell-O, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6275	I want to thank you for your answer. You said it right, we'll see. Well, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6276	The word has Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6277	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say, I've talked to my colleagues about it, how many times unfortunately in our society culture has been some subject discussed with someone, I wouldn't say underestimation, but as if it were something secondary, therapeutic, as if there were time, some more important things will be discussed, something more important will be discussed, which is more important for the life of the average man. In addition to providing people with a salary, something that is essential for paying bills, for getting groceries, for one, I would say, a life of family, you need to provide people with something else that is very important, which is that man feeds his soul. It can't do that without culture. Culture, I would say, is planned in Serbian society, not accidentally, planned, along with history as its part destroyed for a decade, and perhaps stronger. All that had to do with Serbian culture, Serbian tradition, memory, customs, our faith was put in another plan, placed under the rug, as some irrelevant topic, so that what is important and very important to us, this Serbian spirit being would be killed completely. After all, when you kill a nation spiritually, it is not hard to rob it financially. I am pleased that today and in this term of office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have a serious person like Maja Gojkovic as a minister of culture. It gives a special, sort of a stamp to this work of the Ministry of Culture which is incomparable and media presence, and when the media presence is the Ministry of Culture and Culture, then life is enriched for the citizens of Serbia, because they have better and richer cultural content to offer to their children and to learn something together. Within all of this, the recovery of our culture, the return of tradition, history, our values are the rise of numerous monuments lately, the most significant Stefan Nemanja and the despot Stefan Lazarevic in Old Town, some, if I'm not mistaken, two weeks ago. What was the main theme of one part of Serbia, thank the minority god, after the two monuments were erected? The main theme was not whether it was necessary in that place, whether there, whether that size of the monument. No, I don't. The main theme is money. How much did the monument cost? How much money? Why did he have to do that there? Couldn't someone else have worked? It is not about the importance of these monuments, the importance of returning this nation to its culture, its tradition, the restoration of its historical memory, what is important to the spiritual, historical survival of this people in the future, but only money, from where money and how much money. That's all they care about. It's just another difference that I keep talking about in the National Assembly sessions between us and those who today, thank God, are no longer in this nation of 5% or 6%. God forbid, imagine if such people were to return to power in Serbia, especially in our beautiful Belgrade, our beautiful Serbia, all that was restored, all that was raised, all that was built, all that was restored, all that was restored, all that would come from some gangs of hooligans and those who were only used to stealing and kidnapping from the people to destroy again. We would no longer have a monument to Stefan Nemanja, or a despot to Stefan Lazarevic. They would destroy it in a unique way, just as they destroyed this congregation where we are sitting and talking here today. That's what these monuments would look like, that's what the facades would look like, that's what the cultural and historical monuments of this city and this state would look like. From the National Museum, ask God what would be left. How many significant works of art are there? They rushed there first to the National Museum, because it was restored, to steal all the paintings that existed from the culture of the National Museum to put in their villas. They bought so much fairies, they can't fill it all anymore. They need to steal those pictures somewhere, those objects, to enrich the content in their midst. Well, we'll take the people's money, then we'll take his paintings, then we'll burn down the Assembly, then we'll throw ourselves at the National Museum and all the other cultural and historical objects in the country. Let's just remember that they burned the books, too. They have nothing in this country that is related to culture, which is related to Serbian cultural heritage is not sacred and does not matter. All of this can be destroyed, all of it, and they say anyway, in their appearances of moaning, anger and madness, that it will destroy that day and bring back what it was during their rule. They say during their rule, I'll say, my colleague Bakarec noticed this wonderfully, he pulled out a segment of the performance of Dragan Gilas where he said well – the citizens voted against us because we were not good authorities. Then they say we'll get everything back to the way it was. Not that it would be like that if they came to power, dear citizens of Serbia. It would be far worse, because this time it would be revenge. This time they'd take revenge on the citizens. This time, we would go from house to house to dedicate ourselves individually to every man who was allowed to say that the Serbian-led statesman, not a politician, led by Serbia statesman Aleksandar Vucic, a man who, along with ministers in the government, of course, and other people who supported him, across Serbia, managed to raise Serbia from the ashes, a completely destroyed country to recover, to make today's leader in Europe, to be far more than we expected in the second quarter, to go to over 10% growth compared to the second quarter of last year. It's all Serbia's successes. And despite, of course, culture, that's where we come into what we can't do without, that's over 200 new factories, eight new highways. So they say: We do not need highways. No, they go helicopters, their private planes, who knows what kind of yachts, by exotic destinations, they don't need any of that. Among other things, they say we don't need a national stadium. What do we need anything for? We only need their fairies, we need their Mauricios, their not 57 bills, as far as we've found, but 157 bills, we need not in 17 countries, but in 170 states, and that's the program that's crying and pouring fake tears of Dragan Gilas through its false lawsuits, through its false accusations to all of us he's been trying to pin down and try to silence all of us. My message to him, above all, to Dragan Gilas, is that you will never, Gilas, ever silence me or other fellow Members of the people, so I will tell my colleague Atlagic, my colleague Rističević, my colleague Marinkovic, my colleague Martinović, or Sandra Christmas, or my colleague Uglješ, anyone. You will not shut up or prevent us from telling the truth, the truth of the terrible, black Serbia, as you did by 2012, that terrible face, in scars you left Serbia then and Serbia restored, built, stable, responsible, which today respects the world, Serbia which is neither a rag nor an opener of anyone, Serbia who is truly on a European path today, which respects European values, by respecting primarily its culture and tradition, which is part of exactly European culture and tradition. And because we are, we are true in the right way on the European path and we are rightly restoring this country. We are not richer individually than Serbian citizens, but we look forward to hearing that Serbian citizens who received the vaccine will receive additional aid of 3,000 dinars, that pensioners will receive additional assistance, that each Serbian citizen will receive additional assistance from his country at this difficult time. We look forward to it. We're not looking forward to it when someone buys a villa or a yacht. Of course, I can also look forward to it when a decent and wealthy man fairly earns his money and taxes in his country, not taking money to Mauritius. Well, then we look forward to it. Of course, rich people are welcome in this society and no one from this society is making them, as long as they get their wealth and their money legally, according to the laws in this country and tax pay it, and they don't bring money out, and they run for state functions in this country. You can't have face-to-face and offer the citizens of Serbia to be prime minister, because in this Serbia, people won't be like that. In this Serbia, people want honest, responsible politicians, those who want to work in the interest of citizens, not in the interest of their own pocket. That is why Serbian citizens will vote in the next elections and in each other for the policy this coalition is offering, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Thank you. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6278	Thank you. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Ackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6279	Mr. President Dacic, honourable MPs, gentlemen of the Ministers with associates, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on all those who celebrate today's Djurdjevdan with a sentence that reads: "Buchthalo Erdelezi" or "Bahthalo Djurdjevdani". And now you're wondering why I said "erdelezi" and why I said "jurjevni"? Well, because this holiday, distinguished gentlemen, and you'll see how much Roma culture is unknown, once called "Kakava" in India, where we came from and brought it to us, we called it "Kakava", was celebrated these very days. As we moved towards Turkey through Mesopotamia, according to Turkey, through Anatolia, etc., the holiday changed its name and was named "Erdelezi", according to some religious custom. The Erdelez call it today, some kind of Roma, Muslim Roma, while Orthodox people say it's called Djurjevdan. Djurdjevdan is also called in parts of the Balkan Peninsula, and this holiday, and I want to tell you, they call it "green Juraj" in all Catholic countries. So much for Djurjevdan. And now what I mean by culture. We've been discussing it a few times these days and we've talked about it. I accept the definition given by Bronislav Malinovski, who says culture is a way of meeting human needs. Yes, all needs. And as we Roma meet our needs, we know. For years, while the previous government, somewhere there until 2005, 2006, existed Roma radio stations, Roma television, Roma sheets and magazines, and then in 2006 and 2007, everything was shut down. I'll tell you a little something. In 1935, in this same Belgrade, Roma had their own list. In 1972, Roma had many cultural goods, and they had newspapers and magazines and newspapers. As this famous democracy arrived at that time, we didn't preserve anything. It has been extinguished, I don't know for what reasons, a lot of things about the cultural goods of the Roma people, and that is why I believe that this way of meeting the needs should be extended to the Roma people as well. What would be wrong with this country getting those cultural goods back like radio and television stations, like television? Let me tell you, we had three television stations, they were private, they were small, but they weren't poor, they were real-looking radio television. Let me also tell you that we had five radio stations, we don't have any. What's saddest for me at this point, and what I have to tell you in this moment, even though it's solemn and for me, it's a Đurđevdan ceremony, a solemn day, is that after 1935 and 1972, the Roma don't have their own list. If I were to count any of the countries in Europe, be sure I wouldn't miss any, that they all have sheets or magazines. We had two magazines, now we don't have one. We had other cultural institutions and something that seems to me, most regrettable, which is the Review of the cultural achievements of the Roma of Serbia. The survey existed since 1972, 26 years later, and then in 2005, it went out. I suggest that Mrs. Gojkovic consider that this and some other institutions, such as the Museum of Roma Culture, rebuild, strengthen and continue to exist, as necessary, because having it is not very convenient. We don't have Roma, we don't have Roma. We don't have Roma, so we don't have Roma. We want us to have a lot of things, too. I wish you once again a happy holiday to all and I want to leave time for others who will speak. Of course I'll support all the proposed amendments and the legislation we're going to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6280	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6281	Thank you. Dear Minister Vanja, Honorable Minister Maja Gojkovic, until recently you were with us as Parliament Speaker, we co-operated and we expect to co-operate in the coming period as we co-operated as MP and you as Parliament President. Otherwise, regarding these amendments proposed by the Government, which we will surely adopt, or all that is accepted, I will just say that what we are doing now is necessary. And I think this is one of the better ways to solve what's important to us. We have to keep the culture safe. What my colleague used to say before me, I join my friends, the Roma, who celebrate Djurjevdan. Happy birthday. Normally, I'm hanging out with these people, they're my friends, and I support it for culture and for maintaining everything my friends Roma and other nationalities have here in Serbia, which we really respect, appreciate and support. It's a big deal for all of us, because we're like a people of broad chests and we love and respect each other and we've always proven that. Otherwise, as far as these amendments are concerned, it's a very good thing. I'll support that. I hope, dear minister, that you will have the opportunity to do so in some future period, and I would like it to be as soon as possible, to visit our south, southeast of Serbia, to get to Svrlig, to look together at those things that we have there. As for culture, we have a lot of these events that we mark, cultural things specifically. Let's say, we have an art colony, we have a meeting of bagpipers, there's x-rays that are very high-quality and we have to look after and work on it. We've got a wake. It's a game that we hold there, that we cultivate our tradition, our culture. We have a large number of our artists, our poets, people who are very recognizable in literature. We are recognizable with these people throughout Serbia, the former Yugoslavia, and now in Europe. So I'll always support all these suggestions, because I think it's the right thing to do, that when we protect and cultivate culture, when we cultivate what we once did, that's how we give our generations the opportunity to know what it was like before. We always have to keep it safe. As an MP, I will support all these proposals, the proposals of these laws, and, specifically, the Law on Sports, which will later be. I have one amendment here. I probably won't get a chance to answer that, 'cause there's a lot more colleagues to talk about. The amendment proposed by my colleague Goran, who is the chairman of the subcommittee within the Committee on Education, a subcommittee in charge of sports. My colleague, it's a great honor for that amendment you've proposed. You do what we all have to do, fight for sport. I think it would be good in some future period if we had a sports committee within our assembly, not to be a subcommittee within the Committee on Education. Once again, distinguished colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I think this is now the right thing to do, to invest and pass these laws, it will certainly be better for all of our people. I, as an MP of the USS and within our Club of Ambassadors of the Justice and Reconciliation Party – will vote in favour of all these proposals, because I think it is necessary. Once again, Your Honor, I'd like you to be a guest in a nice Srlig municipality. Normally, the invitation applies to our Minister Vanju, as well as to all fellow MPs, and especially to our President of Mr. Ivica Dacic's Assembly, whom many people in Svrlig respect and appreciate there. Normally, there is also our President Vukic, who was with us and who will always be appreciated, because he is still an honorary citizen in the municipality of Svrlig. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6282	Thank you. Let's move on. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6283	Thank you, Chairman. The amendments we are talking about today relate to the National Council for Culture. We believe that this is a really important body for the state and that we are preparing these details for the best possible solution in order for the National Council for Culture to be active and efficient. You, the Honorable Vice President, during last week, when we had a debate on the principle of amending the Law on Culture, reminded us several times that this body was formed in 2015, but that it met in 2018 and that is what is absolutely unacceptable and this problem has to be solved. Looking at some of the provisions of the law and general work of the ministry, it is obvious that both the Ministry of Culture and Information and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have current legal regulations and that there are effective procedures in this area. Culture is the foundation of our future and we here often talk about the "Serbia 2025" plan. That's what President Alexander Vukic presented. This is what defines each area and significant investment, the total amount envisioned by the plan is 14 billion euros, and in this sense by 2025, the plan is to have new museums, new cultural centres, new galleries, offices of archaeological sites and monuments. I would really like to point out that the government of the Republic of Serbia is the first government to be of international financial institutions, in this case the Council of Europe Development Bank, has agreed on a 20m-euro loan to improve infrastructure projects in the area of culture. Just thanks to the fiscal consolidation carried out by President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia has managed to stop economic downturn and lay its foundations firmly on the path of success. Serbia is able and despite the pandemics of the virus, we manage to successfully manage public finances, to allocate huge money to support the economy and citizens and to preserve jobs, to preserve both the lives and the health of our citizens. Unlike individuals from Serbia, large international financial institutions also view Serbia as an effective country, as an economically stable country, and commend all of us for fighting both the pandemic of the virus's coronary and how we carry out the vaccination. Also, I want to point out that the culture budget for this year is the largest ever, and it is indeed an obvious intention that many things, which have not been solved, are finally solved. It is also very important for many cities and municipalities, I see that colleagues share on their profiles here, and that they talk a lot about it, which is a significant resource shared on the basis of various competitions conducted by the Ministry of Culture and Information, and these funds relate to investment in culture, for the homes of culture, for cultural centres and various cultural facilities. The cultural goods status facilities will be particularly invested in the next period and a working group consisting of several ministries, i.e. several ministers headed by you, Mrs Gojkovic, has been established in this regard. You recently held a constitutive session of the Working Group, so that the topic relating to cultural goods will be thoroughly processed. You see, whatever area of social life it is, every segment in it, is approached in one fundamental way, in a detailed way, clear plans and strategies are implemented. We want good results, we want the best life for the citizens and we want good cultural content. Serbia does not want the kind of approach it was in Serbia during Dragan Gilas, when there was also abuse of institutions. They know Serbia's citizens very well that in 2005, when her co-owner was Dragan Gilas, the House of Big Brother was built. That's what everyone remembers, and that was under the mask of a child's accommodation facility. They know Serbian citizens that Gilas robbed his city and his fellow citizens and that without any permission and consent, his firm hijacked city building land and built a facility on the Kosutnjak near the Film and Pioneer City, in the elite part of Belgrade, to record the Big Brother series. There is a wide range of events and chronology, when it comes to the conclusion of a contract on allegedly business-technical co-operation between the state-owned firm SRC "Pionirski grad", under which the cloak was carried out, and Gilas's company, "Emoushn". Also, there is a whole set of circumstances when it comes to issuing a building permit and all this results in the fact that the state-owned company "Pionirski grad" being run as a contractor, not a private "Emoushn" that financed them, has saved Gilas's company 20% for building permits. By then, he was moving in those frames, as he said this morning, a colleague of Jovanov, 20%, plus a minus, up below. What's going on next? In 2007, Emoushn broadcast two Big Brother series and only that year had a net profit of more than four million euros. You see the abuse here, but we don't want this scenario happening in Serbia anymore. This will never happen in our country again. Serbian citizens don't want this. This government is fighting for the interests of citizens, we are fighting for a better standard of living, we are fighting for as much investment in infrastructure as possible, for new jobs, for new content, for modern and decent content both in any area and in the area of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6284	The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6285	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers with associates, and in principle we discussed how important this law is, and the most important changes concerning the choice and competence of the National Council for Culture are also extremely significant. I think it is more than good that we are returning these amendments to the practical selection and submission of the National Council for Culture's report to the power of the Serbian Parliament as the highest legislative body in the country. We believe that the task of the National Council for Culture is extremely important and it is important that this body is chosen by the Assembly. It is an independent, professional and advisory body which, I believe, will contribute to the implementation and implementation of the cultural development strategy together with the Ministry in the future. I believe, therefore, that in the future it will make a full contribution to the creation and realization of cultural policy, which implies greater involvement and participation of all citizens across the country's territory. Of course, cultural policy that will be based on research, science and theory. Speaking of research, I will only take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that one of the most important research we should do – research on cultural needs, which concerns comprehensive and systematic research of all the structures of society and their relationship to culture. These results should serve us as a basis for planning and preparing cultural policy and cultural modeling, at this point in time, at the best possible realization of the culture strategy. We know that culture functions as a living organism and that it feeds on new ideas in every way and in this sense our culture must be open to new research and accept new and modern ways of action. That is why we think it is of the utmost importance that as soon as possible we do research on the cultural needs of citizens. For us in SDPS culture and requires continuous and thorough research, because it can ultimately serve us to look at the remains of the past, to determine the existing and predict the future state and in society, of course, also in culture, as the most important segment of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6286	Thank you. Let's move on. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6287	Thank you, Your Honor. The Presidency, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the scheduled time of the mandated representative of the SVM parliamentary group during the debate in the principle of amendments and additions to the Law on Culture, we have already expressed our gratitude that the proposed objections to the national councils of national minorities have actually accepted. Once again during this debate, I would like to emphasise the importance of this amendment in particular. Namely, national councils of national minorities, as we know, tend to implement cultural autonomy and it is extremely important that the law guaranteeing the rights of national minorities, to ensure their implementation in practice, because we can often read in various reports on Serbia, e.g. The European Commission report, when we talk about national minorities, that the legislative framework is good and that we are coughing with implementation. On the other hand, very significantly align, in this case, the Law on the National Council of National Minorities, which was adopted in 2009 and amendments to the Law on Culture. In spite of the fact that certain provisions of the National Minority Councils Act have been declared against the constitution, it has also changed since 2009 since it was originally adopted, provisions relating to the right of national councils of national minorities, that certain institutions declare institutions of particular importance, as well as their right, mean that they propose, in fact, to the founders, whether it is a republic, an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government, mean that they are of particular importance to them and to be co-founders. So, the founders or co-founders of these institutions, that means that they are partly taking over these rights, which, for example, led to responsibility in practice. and we now see in the case of the City Museum in Subotica or the City Museum in Sombor, but to remain only at Subotica, that this museum has been declared of special importance for four national minorities, - Croatian, Bunjevac, Hungarian and Roma. In accordance with the National Minority Councils Act, all of them can propose one member of the Management Board, it is a clear position, i.e. the Ministry's intention to decide by this law that these boards, supervisory committees, are more effective. Thus, when it was in the proposal that simply the number of board members should be reduced to five, then, let's say, in Subotica, we came to the point that of these five members, the national councils of the national minorities, which is probably the unit of local self-government, or the founder, would not like it. In this respect, the SVM certainly supports that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Vice-President and Minister of Culture itself was fully open and understood about this and that we have, in fact, resolved the issue with this amendment, because it rightly states that in these cases the number of board members is increasing and not just one, but is increasing by as much as the national councils of national minorities have declared that institution of special importance. I know time is limited, and I've really tried to discuss in the principle that on behalf of the SVM I bring out all the interesting things as much as possible in limited time, but you're going to let me really explain in a minute why this is significant and how many institutions we're talking about. These are the most common facilities in the restaurant, as according to the Regional Secretariat for Education, the national minority administration rules of March 2019, the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority is the founder or co-founder. Therefore, the founding rights were transferred either in general or in part to the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, in case of 19 institutions, the National Council of the Croatian National Minority to two institutions, the Slovak National Council to six, the National Council to the Romanian National Minority Three, the Russian National Council to four, the National Council to the rebel national minority to three institutions. What are the results of such an approach, the 2019 survey also shows, the institutional framework for the exercise of the rights of national minorities carried out by the Regional Citizens' Protector, Simeon, and I will illustrate only on the case of the Hungarian national minority. Namely, it launched a total of 618 local cultural centres, and 58 institutions were established to preserve national identity with seats, including in Ada, White Church, Hajdukovo, Mali Ijoš, Kanjiž, Mužlja, Zrenjanin, Kikindi, Vienna, Pancheva, Subotics, Bačka Topoli, Toto Sel, Novi Sad, Senti and Somboro. So, almost everywhere in Vojvodina where members of the Hungarian national minority live in a smaller or larger percentage or in number, we are greatly pleased that these amendments and additions to the Law on Culture are fully now in line with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6288	Thank you. I would like to thank the Vice President and the Minister. The word is Juliana Sakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6289	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Culture that we have already discussed, and today as we have heard we have amendments to this law, I would first like to highlight the extension of deadlines for public competitions in the area of culture from 30 to 60 days from the day of adoption of the budget for the following year, which automatically means more time to collect documentation for applying to the competition. This will also contribute to a greater number of applications, enhanced competitiveness and quality of cultural programmes and projects, as well as artistic and scientific research in culture. These changes regulate the composition, way of choice and mandate of the National Cultural Council. We have already heard the problems encountered in the formation of this council, and now the number of members of the council will change to the efficiency of its work, and national minorities will be involved in the work of the council. Also, the status and data to be entered in the register of cultural institutions are regulated. As I have already mentioned the register of cultural institutions in the APR, it is important to note that financial resources are determined from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and after its operation is established, the register of cultural institutions, the institutions will have legal personality status. What I would particularly retain is the changes in the law regarding independent artists. They have also been recognised in the current law as holders of the general interest in culture, but local self-government has been given the opportunity to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. In order not to implement the law selectively, the amendments stipulate that what has been set as a possibility so far is now becoming binding for all units of local self-government. From the attitude towards independent artists, by adapting the law to encourage and facilitate their work, it is clear that the ministry's stance towards culture in general. If we also look at the cultural development strategy of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2020/2025. For years, we see that the view of culture has changed significantly. It is no longer an additional item in the budget, but slowly but certainly gets the place that belongs to it in society, which seeks to be developed. Speaking of developed society, we need to remember a saying that if we think education is expensive, we need to wait and see how much stupidity costs. The same could apply to culture. The strategy also defines priorities in the field of culture, points to the cultivation of immaterial and material cultural heritage, works to expand the availability of culture through its institutions and media, and, given that we are society with a rich cultural tradition, artists of the world's voice, then we should constantly work to get to know the world about all the products of our culture. Everything that is being taken in infused with hope not only to cultural lovers and cultural workers that in the time ahead Serbia will become a suitable ground for cultural development, and should provide absolute support to the leadership of the state, the rest of the ministry, in everything that has been undertaken so far, but also in their future work. Because only if we can really look at the problem will the answer appear, because it is never separated from the problem itself. The state will just give us answers to some of the questions that, in my humble opinion, are crucial, which have been ignored so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6290	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6291	Dear President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Working Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I am indeed pleased to support the amendments to the Law on Culture, but also amendments that are on the agenda today, which improve and correct the text of the amendments to the law. It is perfectly logical that what is in the amendments, where national minorities have an interest, i.e. in those institutions where there is the interest of national minorities to be represented, to have representatives of these national minorities represented, so that the number of board members increases five plus, so how many national minorities are interested in participating in the work or who are achieving their cultural interests within these cultural institutions. So that amendment is really good and represents one significant improvement in the text that has been offered, where the number of board members is fixed to five, and the number of members of the Supervisory Board is fixed to three. Of course, this proposed solution five and three was much better than what we had before, where the minimum number of members was defined as three, and then there could be more, so it could have been more and more, and in practice there were large variations in the number of board members. I think this solution is that the board of directors has five members and the supervisory three, except in the cases that I have stated, when national minorities are interested, is a very good solution that we will have further in practice. As far as the Council is concerned, we have been prepared to support the Council's proposal for a minister, elected by the Government, but it is really good and correct by the Government that this ingenuity has been left in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, that the Cultural Council is elected by the National Assembly. Of course, I accept, and it makes perfect sense to explain that the number of 19 Council members was too big, that these people were hard to put together, that in practice only six to seven people responded and functioned, so that the Council worked without a quorum. As the minister said, nothing is meant for all time. This solution of 11 members of the Council seems very good, very effective and suitable for practical functioning. Time will quickly show what experience we will have with this solution, so if there is a need to fix something, it will improve, but I think the solution of 11 members of the Council is very good. There are precisely those entities that give members of the Council, which was not the case in the previous legal solution, where you had a large number of representative associations and others who competed, all pointed out some of their candidates and then it was difficult for them to agree to agree and propose a joint candidate for a member of the Council. Here it is well known about five institutions that are responsible for protecting cultural goods, which are the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, the State Archives of Serbia, the National Library of Serbia, the National Museum of Serbia and the Yugoslav Cinematheque, have one representative, then the Institute of Contemporary Art, such as the National Theatre in Belgrade, has its representative, the Matica Serbian, two representatives from the Academy of Sciences, one from the field of art, the other from the field of language and literature and, of course, two representatives of the National Minority Council. As far as the strategy is concerned, it is perfectly understandable that the strategy is proposed by the minister and brought by the government, because it is the case in other areas where strategies are adopted. There is no need for a strategy in the area of culture to be brought by the National Assembly. Simply, this practice should be evened and this solution in amendments to the Law is perfectly logical and correct. In general, by reading changes and additions to the law, all what is proposed is very clear, very precise and aims at more efficient work and functioning of the process in culture and culture institutions themselves. Things are precise, things are better defined, things are clearer than they were in the previous law. Let's just say, the director's choice. The choice of directors is one in practice very stretching thing. You had local self-government where boards are fully aware that they need to inform the founder before they call a contest to elect a director. But you also had local self-governments or those cultural institutions where the boards of directors got a little carried out, so they called competitions for the selection of directors in agreement with the director, not in agreement with local self-government. So the obligation that exists under these amendments and the additions to the law, that cultural institutions or boards cannot call the competition before informing the founder and that is something that is quite logical and that the call for competition requires the consent of the founders. I, as someone who worked at the bar, insisted on it all the time in local self-government. Although we've had cases that were contrary to this as prescribed now, and that's why I think this solution is very good. Of course, all colleagues praised the solution of independent artists. the obligation of local self-government to fund their PIO contributions, health insurance and others to pay to representative associations, and later to transfer those funds to the PIO Fund and the RFZO. We have read in the material, many free artists have been able to apply to those municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, to those local self-governments where they had greater privileges, and in this way pressures have been exerted on Belgrade and other major cities, or have been pressured to pay for those who do not actually live there or do not have a place in their territory in fact, and others have avoided these obligations. This obligation to all local self-governments is required for free artists from their territories to reconcile these tax obligations, i.e. the contributions of PIO and RFZO is absolutely logical and it will improve the status of these people. Of course, I would also like to comment on the deadline on which the Council was elected for the previous and current solution. It's been there for five years. The council is elected for five years. The government is elected for four years, the Assembly is elected for four years and it is not logical that the Council is elected for five years. The logical solution is that the Council is elected for four years because the minister is calling a contest to elect members of the Council 30 days after the election. So, every government, every minister in his term should work with the appropriate advice and I think that synchronization is a time, or mandated thing that is very good and effective in practice. Of course, in this case, since the law comes into force shortly after a few months after the government's election or a period after the government's election, the minister will have 60 days to call a competition for members of the Council. In addition to these comments on the very text of the law, I would like to point out, that in previous years we have had large infrastructure investments in the area of culture and that the reconstruction and reconstruction of the National Museum in Belgrade and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Belgrade are capital things that have been achieved during the period of this government and that with infrastructure projects in the area of culture continue. We recently had the agenda, I think there was a loan related to infrastructure projects in the field of culture, but not only in Belgrade and not only for the central cultural objects but also for cultural objects, i.e. institutions located in the country's interior, I think some funds are being allocated to Piroth, a small scene of the National Theatre in Nis is also something that came into that. I remember it was also Pavilion Zuzoric, a museum in Yugoslavia, the National Theatre in Belgrade and a whole series of cultural objects. Culture stands out more today, because the state can single out. You know, when the budget is stable, when you have fiscal consolidation, you can borrow more, you can allocate more from the budget, you can invest more in social, consumer, and culture. It wasn't possible before, and we found one condition where the maltenes all the objects, those large, capitalized were completely down or shut down. I just want to draw attention to a situation in Nis that bothers us, and I hope that the minister in charge will have an understanding of the situation. We had cultural institutions in objects that were returned to restitution. So, the gallery was evicted because that space was under restitution, the Gallery of Contemporary Art in Nis. For two years now, the National Museum in Nis has been paying rent to the rightful owner, i.e. the one returned to the restitution, and we do not have a solution for the space of the National Museum, but we have an idea solution that has won the competition among 32 ideas solutions. The President of the Commission was a lady, director of the National Museum in Belgrade and indeed I as a layman, looking at all these 32 solutions, I simply see that this is the best solution. It fits perfectly into the square and the ambience that lies there and I think that the construction of the National Museum in Nis, which includes the reconstruction of the house of the bishop Jeronimo who left it to the city in 1894, is something that our city needs. Because even the dumps of the museum, we simply have nowhere to put all the arte-facts we have. There is simply one number of exhibits in the public company Water. It's been deposited there. Only one percent of what is owned by an archaeological collection is exhibited in a small hall of archaeological collections located in the center of the city. So I want to point out this great need of the city of Nis for the space that's been created because for decades someone hasn't taken care of it in decades, but also because the restitution has created an obligation to return some space to the owners. In the previous, as a previous set, we had one idea that we would ask Philip Morris to ask the city, with a certain compensation or perhaps without compensation, to return the space they don't need at all, and to represent a historical part of the tobacco industry in Nis. It is a monopoly building that was built in 1928 with a beautiful green area, a park and it is very convenient for cultural institutions, not one or more of them, but it now belongs to foreigners and now no one will return it to you, even if you offer it monetary, or financial satisfaction. Those who tried to get rid of the tobacco industry in Nis in 2003, they sold the wire along with the calf, gave everything. It was probably just a commission, something that would belong to them, and the state interest and interest of the city was elsewhere, but the fact that they gave along with the factory to the owners was not necessary at all. And this is now a space that neither the tobacco industry nor Philip Morris can use, nor can the city of Nis. A simple rope went by the calf and that's how it is now. So, full of support for amendments and amendments to the law, full of support for amendments that really correct the text of the law and thank you for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6292	Thank you, Mr. Bandur. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6293	Dear Members, I welcome and consider it important to accept the amendments that will make the Culture Act more concrete and orderly. This will also be accompanied by an amendment relating to a member who regulates the number of members of the boards of directors. The Management Board of the Institution thanks to the amendment, except for five members in the future, will also have one member of the National Minority Council for institutions that are of particular importance for a specific national minority. Otherwise, the new law significantly regulates the composition of the boards of directors, and this will contribute to the lack of charm that was present, especially in the smaller environments when the old law allowed the board to have at least three members, so some boards had three, some five, and some more members. It is now understood that it must be five members and I find that very important. However, I would also like to draw attention to a phenomenon that can also be seen in smaller areas, which is about members of the boards of directors who should come from the ranks of prominent experts and cultural professionals. That's not always the case in smaller environments. Sometimes local self-governments go deaf about this provision, so I would like some future legislation on culture to take more care of these small environments, to think about how to determine by law who can be a board member, not just a prominent cultural worker, that it can be at least a college-educated member, because so far we have situations where sometimes those who are not even consumers of cultural content can be found, and at least cultural workers are prominent. I will take this opportunity to commend the Ministry of Culture's decision to support traditional events and programmes with significant financial resources, i.e. projects fostering the culture and tradition of Bosniaks in the municipality of Prepolje. There are also significant funds for the digitisation of the House of Culture cinema, where Prepolje was among the 10 municipalities for which these funds were allocated. The funds are also significant in the "Towns in Focus" contest, and that is what should be commended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6294	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6295	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, distinguished fellow citizens, I would first like to take advantage of the opportunity as an Orthodox Christian and congratulate the baptism of all the believers, all our fellow citizens, fellow citizens who celebrate Djurdjevdan today. There are two reasons why I decided to take part in today's discussion. First, because I think culture is an extremely important topic, a topic that has been unjustly neglected for decades, unjustly pushed into another, and a third plan, and I think that finally over the last few years has slowly begun to take that place that belongs to it in our society. The second reason why I decided to participate in today's discussion is because I come from a region from which the reformer of Serbian language encourages me to come from a region where the oldest cultural manifestation of the Serbian people is held and I simply feel a moral obligation, a moral duty to say a few sentences about this debate in details of the Law on Culture. Of course, like all my colleagues, I will support all the proposed amendments, as well as the General Law on Culture, but at the very beginning I would like to point out one important fact, which is to commend the process of preparing for the adoption of this law, in spite of all the difficult circumstances, so, with respect for all the epidemiological measures, the preparation for the adoption of the law was adopted, or organised in a very transparent manner in accordance with all democratic standards and principles that public debate was held in February through five round tables in Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, Subotica and Cačka. We've heard a lot in the previous part of the discussion, but I'm going to repeat myself with some of the facts that my colleagues have made, because I think three very important newspapers are the ones that this law makes. Thus, three newspapers that would remove the misunderstandings that he had made possible, or allowed, the existing Law on Culture. So, first of all, we said that the adoption of this law would allow, or clearly defined, that every institution of culture, or its board of directors, had five members, which was not an obligation before. Then, precisely, the status of independent artists will be defined and what is very important will be improved by the way the National Council for Culture works. The National Council for Culture when it was formed, it was actually a very good idea, but in the existing law its status was quite undefined. He remained somewhere between the executive and the legislative authority, which was a very serious lack. Also, what was a serious lack of the National Council for Culture was its premature. So 19 members that very, very limited his efficiency in work. The new bill instead of the National Council choosing the Assembly, which is a very important body for creating our cultural policy, will form it as a body with the government where it will be connected functionally to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and what is even more important to the Ministry of Culture. The proposed law will also remove a serious deficit faced by independent artists. In previous years, the state leadership led by the SNS, led by President Vukic, after stabilising the economy, after reducing unemployment and resolving a large number of existential problems faced by Serbian citizens in earlier times. More and more attention, more resources are being devoted to culture and cultural workers. Thus, independent artists will have the possibility in future, i.e. local self-governments will be given the obligation to pay pension and health insurance to independent artists, which is a very important thing for this kind of cultural worker. Today in Serbia, we have thousands of jobs every year, thousands of new highways, thousands of roads. But for the quality of life of every man, each individual is not enough. Jobs are a prerequisite, but there is also a need for a richer cultural offer, a richer cultural life. In recent years, many countries have changed in a positive way. The good data is also the fact that 12.7 billion dinars for culture were provided in the 2021 budget, which is even 10% higher than in 2020, or significantly higher than in earlier years. In this way, we will have the means for a stable functioning of all cultural institutions, for a stable financing of all projects, where I would specifically single out the project – "Towns in Focus" for which around 350 million dinars are scheduled this year. So, as much as 200 million more compared to the previous year. So, years ago, the government has been setting aside significant tools for modernising our most significant institutions of culture. Here I would refer specifically to the National Museum of Contemporary Art, which, due to the inability of some other, previous regimes, was closed for more than a decade to visitors, so that this state leadership, led by the SNS, would end this reconstruction and the museum would open these two museums for visitors. As responsible cultural policy is being conducted, I also have in the city from which I come, in Loznica, only a few examples. So, in previous years, local self-government in Loznica reconstructed the library of Vuk's homeland in Trsic at the assembly, so the site of reflecting the oldest cultural event in Serbs, the Museum of Language and Letters was opened, and a very important institution was opened with the joint resources of the local self-government and government of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, a very important cultural institution of the Scientific and Educational Cultural Centre "Vuk Karadzic", which will now be the site of young scientists from the field of social sciences, primarily of celebrations whose task is to cultivate our national identity, our immaterial cultural heritage, primarily Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. But what is even more important than these growing financial investments in culture is the relationship that the state has been fostering towards culture in recent years, according to cultural institutions, according to important figures from our closer and still the past that have been in charge of this country. So, on that plan, there was a big turn, big progress compared to some earlier times. Today is Djurdjevdan, and we heard from some previous speakers how a famous song was created that we all know for sure – Djurdjevdan. So today Serbia is economically strong enough, reputable enough to call things a real name. Why did I mention this song that is related to the Second World Work and the death of Serbs? Today, Serbia can and can say that in World War II, NDH committed genocide, that "Storm" is a crime, that bombing in 1999 is an aggression. Unlike the former regimes, Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas, who, in addition to having committed genocide in the NDH over Serbs, committed a cultural genocide against their people by handing over all those patriots to The Hague tribunal, all those heroes who defended this nation and this country. So, across our country from Kosar, Morina, Paštrik, etc., unlike them today we honor our heroes, we raise them monuments from Stefan Nemanje to the pilots of Milenko Pavlovic and Zoran Radosavljevic, who gave their lives for their country. For the very end, in just one sentence, although we have heard it on several occasions, and when we have already touched this cultural genocide that has committed the former regime, yesterday we have been able to see the true intentions of the opposition's work, and in fact, members of the former regime, who have shown to Serbian citizens many times that their perception of dealing with politics is personal wealth. What has startled me is that European Parliament representatives, therefore, have been openly told, therefore, that Dragan Gilas is openly seeking a national frequency for his television show with a goal, of course, to increase the value of his television by increasing another ten or a hundred million euros. Of course, if he were wondering, that would be the case. Fortunately, Serbia is a democratic state in which the government is won by elections, in which citizens decide to give trust, and Serbian citizens are many times so far, and I am confident in the future that this will give confidence to the Serbian Progressive Foreigner and Alexander Vukic, because only the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic is a guarantee of both economic and economic, but also the cultural prosperity of our society and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6296	I also thank Mr. Jugovic. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. We're moving on to the next search. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Prevention of Competence in Sports You have received an amendment submitted by MP Goran Spasojevic to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Spasojevic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does Proposer Goran Spasojevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6297	I thank you, Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear ministers with associates, I almost thought we wouldn't have time to talk about sports, even though it's just an amendment that's been filed formal and technical mistake, because instead of a member standing by attitude 11, it's important that we can say a few things about sport. Before I say anything, I would take the opportunity to tell the MPs that a Subcommittee on Sport has been formed that has been intensively engaged, along with the Ministry and the co-workers of the Ministry of Labour and all these laws and in public hearings and in the debate and to call the MPs, I know that a large number of MPs are interested in participating in the work on sports in this House, first of all, we want to return the topic of sport. There's little time left, we don't have much opportunity, probably not everyone will be able to speak who they wanted and who participated in the work of the Subcommittee. So, the subcommittee is limited by the number of members, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, but that does not prevent all MPs who are interested in coming, to report to agree on how to communicate how we will deliver materials, to call for various gatherings, public hearings, public debates, and all that is needed in order to bring the theme of sport back to parliament in a real and quality way. As far as this law is concerned and the amendments and additions to the Doping Act are concerned, it is particularly important that what was the condition to comply with the international anti-doping code and what was the condition to harmonize it with our regulations, the most important thing in this law is that the Ministry and this Parliament, I can freely say, has zero tolerance to doping in sport. It's something that's the monster of every athlete and it's something that needs to be the Holy Scriptures, that athletes are making real results without any additional substances and illicit resources. What we have to say and it's about this Anti-doping Act is particularly important that athletes can use the opportunity not to give up on the Anti-doping Agency's calls we have the opportunity to be punished in major international competitions, and we all know what that would mean for us, for our country, for the situation in which we are, where we can say that in the previous seven years we have achieved a lot more medals in international competitions than in the previous 15 years. This is why this law should be passed, because it is well and well done. I must honestly say that together we have followed all this that has been happening and the Ministry has been fantastically working and a complete team and the Anti-doping Agency has done good things for our athletes and I can say that we are at that level that many countries are using our Anti-doping Agency services. It's a great honor for all of us, it's a big deal for sports in Serbia, because we know that sport is an extremely important branch. It is very important that we all participate in this together because we have a lot of work to do and I hope that in some of the next sessions we will have much more time to hear. The preparation of the amendments and additions to the Sport Act has already started in February of this year. A strategy to develop sports is being prepared for the first time in ten years. It's extremely important for athletes, it's important to use a great time period in which we want to predict all the things we've had in this pandemic. I say, sport has survived a lot, many changes have been seen during the pandemic, and all of this needs to be implemented and predicted. In particular, we should see in this Law on Sports, the biggest changes and additions to the Sport Act are about financing clubs and organizations, more transparently. To return that topic, I say, here to parliament, and Serbian citizens have the opportunity to listen and follow all that is happening, and I am sure that the theme of sport would not only be tabloid or criminogenic as it has been lately with us. There's no room not only for unwanted events in sports, as far as doping is concerned, there's no, zero is tolerance, and as far as all the other things that violate the reputation of sport are concerned. We know what sport means to our country. It's one of the most important industries. Today sport is not a gray zone, we have a lot of income and taxes, and since the departure of players and from the organization of major world competitions and everything that comes to our country. Here, you saw it wasn't just that we won the pandemic. I am sure that in sports we will get out of these problems faster than other countries in the environment, especially in the environment, and many in Europe, to be completely honest. We wish that in the great world competitions that will be evident after all these measures we've taken back again. We have a lot of big world competitions, and we also had a world competition, and I talked about it last time, in wrestling, where we passed with the highest score. Our people who have been involved in the organization of this world competition have been invited to organise both in Europe and worldwide. It's big things for Serbia, I'm sure it'll all contribute to sports being one of the most important things again. What I, Minister, would do about amending and supplementing the law, especially in talking to people, because the field is where we get the most information, is about infrastructure. Remember that last strategy was based on four pillars, it was a school sport, amateur or recreational sport, professional and infrastructure. You've really changed a lot of things in those areas and it's never been done again. But what's been holding back, it's property relations. Many clubs in our country's territory, to say, and from my municipality of Mladenovac, have a problem with property law relations. Many have found an inherited condition that clubs, these properties have been taken to both local communities and private faces and donors that are now gone and most often and to cooperatives, so now they don't exist at all, we can't find. We need to find some method here to sort out the infrastructure specifically because it's the basis for children to play sports and that's the basis for keeping the youth safe. Now, what we were saying earlier, he also mentioned fellow Miletic, that the subcommittee should also be a committee one day, which we agree completely, because of the easier functioning and these things on the ground. But what's important for all of us is that by solving these infrastructures, especially in those rural areas, don't forget that in these many places, especially rural ones, except for gathering around sports clubs, there's no gathering of young people, we don't have anything to organize or preserve them where they are and where they live. I think that's where we should take care of it and work together to solve these problems in a different way, because here, I would say, there are a lot of problems, even sports facilities that are located in the restitution and you can't sort out that space, you don't have any other place and the possibility that it could be a sports field, and this leads to a lot of clubs shutting down, that the young ones are leaving, and that it all concentrates on Belgrade. So that law is not the same sport in Belgrade, it's not the same sport in southern Serbia, it's not the same circumstances and it's not the same thing. I would like to hear today, if we had a little bit more time, here, we see, we are limited because of today's vote and for everything, I would like to hear more of my fellow Members and therefore I will call once again not only to support this amendment and to support these amendments and supplement the Doping Act, because they are really very important. A few things I will only single out, very briefly, which is that in these amendments and additions it is envisaged that this mechanism, the 11th mechanism that recognises that you can report intimidation, that you must not report someone, very important in this law, to form a board of directors of roof institutions, is from the Olympic Union, the Paralympic Alliance and the Sports Alliance of Serbia, and that body is absolutely independent. This uncertainty in the detection of anti-doping, it is very important, because so far only the criteria of the competition are semi-final and final. Now you can not know at all what level the competition starts and in this way not to be a repressive law, but to be motivated by athletes not to do drugs, not punish them, or if someone already comes into a situation to break the law, to be rigorously punished. Therefore, not only this amendment, but also this law, I call on all MPs to support in the voting day and to take part together in order to arrange the sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6298	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6299	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Spasojevic, I would like to thank you personally for your efforts and your efforts, firstly, to form, with a full understanding of all the members of the Education Committee, to form a sports subcommittee. I would also like to point out from this place that your support has meant a great deal to us in the previous period and you have enormous gratitude from my entire team and me for participating in all activities and in all parts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in the previous period. Thank you for that, because we think that we can only team up with great results. As strong as the individual is, and we agree that this is not just a situation in the system of sports, but in society as a whole, as strong as he is, we think that without strong support from the team and without strong support from the people around him, we can't do a lot of things. That's why I'm very proud to have your full support. Honestly, thank you for that. We as the Ministry will continue to work to meet all expectations of both the National Assembly and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What you've mentioned, we're going to try to have even more investment in sports infrastructure in the next period. I must point out that investments in sports in the previous period are never higher. There are clear rules in sports. At the end of the game you have the result and our score at the traffic lights says that we absolutely break all the records when it comes to all segments of the sports system, not just in relation to the four pillars you mentioned, but in each segment. I think that together we can make even greater results that are historical, but also motivate an even greater number of children to enter the system of sports, that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are more involved in sports, that we understand that recreation, especially in these challenging times, is a prerequisite for health and that we all complement our society and our system together, that sport, recreation is a way of life and culture of each of us individuals. In the coming period, we are expected, as you yourself have said, by the honourable Members of Parliament, to amend and supplement the Law on Sports and to develop a new strategy. I have to say, the amendments and additions to the Law on Young People who are directly concerned and segments, which you said, that young people, perhaps even in smaller environments, spend their free time, motivate them, unite them, and make an example of the whole society. Thank you for your willingness to assist in the process of developing all these strategic and normative acts. I think we have a very challenging job in the next period, just to continue the historical results, help the system of sports, and make a better future together for the entire system of sports. As for property-legal relations, yes, I agree. We've done a lot of things. Never by nature, not by my own business, but by my own personal opinion, I'm not satisfied with what I've done. I think there's always room for stronger and better and better quality. In this segment, we will try to do better results together and make it more and more accessible for better quality and better infrastructure on the ground, although it is now, I must say, far better than it was, although we can boast about national training centres, although we can boast about the large number of infrastructure projects that we are doing at the moment. We are proud to say that in the same way we are looking north and south, east and west of our country, that we are not making a difference and that we are very evenly and evenly looking at our entire country. Thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6300	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6301	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so relatively short time to discuss an extremely important and important topic. At the very beginning, I'd like to do a one-destimation, since we're talking about the World Anti-doping Code. I think one such anti-doping code should be drawn up when it comes to these quasi politicians in Serbia. You, Mr. Minister, you know, you were a top athlete, when you're physically unprepared, and you still get, or you use illegal means, and then you lose the game, then you have some sort of specific behavior. It's the same in politics. When you have a lack of political power, a lack of political influence, and you have the opportunity to use and use some kind of anti-doping means, then there's anxiety, then there's threats, then there's lawsuits, then there's some kind of theater. There's probably one serious reason for all of this. That's why I think politics should think the same way about making an anti-doping code. The joke aside, I was glad, a little fellow spoke, believe me in the Assembly, at least we from the SPS parliamentary group didn't know that a subcommittee was formed for youth and sport, although someone who, you know very well, in fact, I hope that you remember, someone who has since 2011, when the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was constantly proposed changes and complemented with only one point, which is that, among other things, of all the resolution committees listed, we also have a Youth and Sports Committee, because by 2011, we had a Youth and Sports Committee. That's when we passed the roof law, and when it came to young people, that's when we passed the roof law when it came to sports. They've been run over by time, of course, it's been a long time. We need to talk about everything again, start up a lot of questions, a lot of important topics. Just some topics a colleague mentioned are of great importance, but it's a short period of time, but it's absolutely illogical. I hope we can do it in the next term. It is illogical, Minister, to admit that we have the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and we do not have a resolution committee in the National Assembly that deals specifically with youth and sports, because to whom do you submit a three-month report on work, with due respect, colleagues from education, science, technology and technological development? I say it again, with all due respect, but it just doesn't work. You know we stood up as a Parliament Club and I personally as an MP. We failed in the previous period of time. I hope that in the term of office, perhaps not you, perhaps some other call, but we can finally put into these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure or some new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the Youth and Sports Committee. You mentioned young people. Young people are the key to sports in Serbia. You should invest in young people, because investing in young people through sport is actually investing in the future. It's a key topic when it comes to young people, and I'm talking, first of all, about basic sports, since, fellow, I see you understand quite well. I'm talking, first of all, about basic sports. Young people have to have infrastructure and have equal conditions in each part of Serbia, as you said, in every municipality, in every city, because, let me, many talents, you were in one kind of sport, I was in another kind of sport, but many talents did not come from Belgrade, but came from inside and from my western Serbia, from eastern Serbia, from southern Serbia, and therefore I think it is very important to put a special accent... I know it's hard and we're facing a major health challenge and it saves priority and that some pillars of development have been defined that we all have to follow, but I believe after this pandemic period we'll take a good starting position and we'll have the opportunity to invest in sports infrastructure, get the kids off the street and give them conditions that they can play sports. A little while ago, the Sports Act was mentioned. He is anochron, it's been a long time, there's a lot to change, but you know how it's always a stumbling block, you know that very well, privatization. I'm talking about property-legal relations, everything's fine, but privatisation is kind of a key issue, and we still haven't got an answer to the question of what about clubs where exactly state property is 51%, let's say. It is good that by 2011, when we adopted the Sport Act, we managed at least to adopt amendments, that stadiums like Marakana and JNA stadiums would be stadiums of national importance, not to allow that space to be sold and turned into a residential space. Imagine what that would look like? That would be terrible for both young people and sports in general. To go back to today's topic. So, we are this existing law, Ministers, as I recall, firstly in 2005, whether it was adopted, and then there were many changes, and then in 2014 and one of the reasons why I am just joining the amendments and supplementing this law is its alignment with the basic principles of the new World Anti-doping Code, which is also the obligation of Serbia as one of the countries that is a signator of the International Convention on the Prevention of Doping in Sports. According to the Convention, Serbia, as a signator, has taken over a kind of commitment, which is to strengthen, strengthens the fight against drug prevention in sport. By adopting the changes we are talking about today, we are actually fulfilling our international obligation, but we are harmonising our legal legislation with the World Anti-doping Code and with international standards. Anti-doping is a set of coordinated activities. It's not just one activity. It is a set of coordinated activities aimed at protecting and preserving the sports spirit and as preserving and improving the health of athletes, whether they are professionals or amateurs. The law on sports clearly says - athletes are also those who meet on Sundays, so they play one game of football, they're all athletes. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will, of course, support the legislative proposal. That's not a question, that's absolutely not a question. By supporting this proposal, we actually want to support the two core objectives that want to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal. The first is to improve, as I said, strengthen the fight to prevent doping in sports and other very important that this area be in line with all these changes that happened in the meantime when it comes to international documents. It is true that it is important to adopt this legislative proposal in order to bring our legal legislation in line with the World Anti-doping Code, which I mentioned briefly with international standards. And that's true, and it's important that we get that confirmation of the compliance of our rules with the rules of the World Anti-doping Code, but some things, and especially when it comes to sports, we need to do and work primarily for ourselves, because of young generations, because of those young people who are currently in the territory of the Republic playing sports, and to our great happiness, they are really very much. They, we want to believe, will be representatives of top sports, participate in international competitions, we are convinced and as you have done, achieve good results for your country and for your people. Doping is, among others, the problem that exists today in sport, one of the biggest problems in sport and as far as the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club is concerned, the fight to prevent doping in sport is, in fact, our strategic goal and our strategic interest. In order for this strategic goal to be fully realised in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, anyone involved in sports must assume one part of the responsibility, too, must assume one part of the obligation. When I say everyone, I mean both national sports alliances and sports workers and sports organisations and I mean, I repeat, all athletes. I'll remind you again, the Sport Act is very clear and says that athletes are all those who deal with organized physical activity whether they compete or not. So, athletes are also recreationals who are in an organized way involved in sports in the area that is intended for it. I think it's also an important question and a very important definition when we're talking about preventing doping in sports. The rules prohibiting the use of doping to top athletes will not protect the health of all athletes and will not solve the problem entirely and the question we are talking about today. An extremely important and significant question that we are talking about today, because it seems to me that there are indications that they too are unprofessional athletes, unfortunately, I say, and those who are recreationally engaged in sports are susceptible, that they may be using illicit substances that can be defined as doping. Mr. Minister, let's not lie, to be completely open, today you can find doping in every gym. Unfortunately, young, fall asleep, wanting to look physically as good as possible, trying and thinking that bodybuilding is a sport that is adequate and acceptable for the realization of that goal, is mostly going towards using these doping funds. What's the big deal? It's about prevention, and it's about control. It is especially important to control all those institutions, all of them, as I would say, the space and gyms and fitness centers that young people use for sport, for sports recreation. It seems to me that the desire to win and the desire to dominate is also one of the reasons why athletes use illicit means, but also one of the key reasons is the lack of information and knowledge of athletes, but unfortunately also numerous sports workers. What I want to say at the very end, given that time is running out and that the vote is already scheduled, we know the case, and you were talking about it on the day that we had a debate in principle, a large state that did not comply with its regulations and which had one serious problem and could not participate in important international competitions. So we're doing this because of athletes, because our athletes can participate in very important international competitions, and our athletes are the best ambassadors and everything we do, we do because of them, as I am convinced we will also do the moment we discuss amendments and additions to the Sport Act. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6302	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. We've exhausted the list of those reported for discussion. The word is made by Minister Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6303	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I'd like to answer a few suggestions and examples that you've given, but also specific questions. We, I must say, are very proud of the fact that in 2016 the Sport Act, which was unanimously adopted here, made its full contribution and at this point we can boast of the top results. I have recently tried to explain in short lines all segments of our sport, from achieving high-end results, and we can specify concrete examples, because the score at the light is very transparent and clear. The London Olympics, where I was a participant, won four medals. The Rio de Janeiro Olympics, eight medals, double the score. When we talk about paralympics, since we pay very close attention to the entire system of sports and do not make a difference, our paralympics won five medals in London, and in Rio de Janeiro nine medals. Today very responsible and very strongly we want to encourage the entire system of sports and to achieve even better results in this Olympic and Paralympic year and cross the famous line that has been dreaming for 30 years about the double-digit number of medals at the Olympic Games. Why can we say that, I take responsibility? Because we've made it possible for our athletes, sports organisations, never better conditions, we've given more resources, we've helped the system of sports in difficult circumstances caused by the pandemic of the corona virus, we've been following the entire system of sports, we've scholarshipd our athletes since we were 15 years old, we've been trying to make through education in working with them to be more quality people, but also to be a real example to all of us because we know that athletes are truly idols to the whole nation. We build, organize international competitions, and this year we can boast big, very important international competitions. We are expected to have a very fast qualification basketball tournament for the Olympics, the World Boxing Championship, the European Women's Championship in both right after the Olympics, etc. A big competition for the founding, the Olympics in 14 sports where we expect over 4,000 athletes. So we also very strongly support the recreational sport and the school sport you pointed to. Commission Implementing Regulation The law on sports tried to improve the system of sports. Today we think that we have done so, but as you yourself have stated, after a certain period of time, we believe that, following a promotion, innovation at international level when it comes to sports, there is a need to reconsider certain legal norms and certain legal solutions with a desire to continue to follow world trends and to keep up with the world. Again, by adopting this law, we will be among the first countries in the world to bring national legislation into line with international rules, in this particular case with the world's anti-doping code. It is a strong message of Serbia's desire to prove itself on the international agenda, Serbia's desire to show that the shoulder is side by side with the world's greatest forces in all segments and Serbia's desire to compete and Serbia's desire to win. I think we can very much boast that we are on the right track and in that direction. When we talk about recreational sports, this law very much requires that we deal with the entire system of sports. In the previous period, the anti-doping agency of Serbia tested all our athletes, both professionals and recreationals you talked about, but our overall action was focused on prevention, not repression. We can boast of over 40,000 educated, certified, informed young people, both athletes, both high school students and founders. I think it's a good one way to educate the entire system of sports, but also to send a strong message as much doping as is illegal. If you'll excuse me, in the end, I would like to invite all the MPs to support the amendment and addition of the Doping Prevention Act in the day of voting, because I think we all need to send a strong message of equality, justice, fair play, but also a strong message of how much the health of all citizens is, but also the health of athletes at the highest possible level. Taking doping is a scam, and that's one bad way a athlete wants to prove himself to other athletes, a way to fool yourself, your team, to fool your Alliance, but also to cheat your country to make it easier for you to get a certain result. As a former athlete today, as Minister of Youth and Sports, I am bitter at all individuals who are trying to cheat on certain successes, to whine on other people's feathers and to get to certain world and European results in a way that absolutely does not belong to them. By adopting this law, we send a clear message to the sport system, we send a message of equality, team spirit and desire that in a fair, equal way our athletes achieve the world's best results and that through the adoption of this law we send that message that we are with them, but that fraud is absolutely not allowed and that there is no threshold of tolerance in relation to this system solution. Thank you for your constructive discussion. Once again, I call upon the Members of Parliament to support the amendments and additions of this law on the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6304	The word has Gjorge Milicevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6305	I just wanted to thank the minister first and to fully agree with you that Serbia has a desire and that, in extremely difficult circumstances, has made it possible for the best conditions and that I am fully convinced that in great competitions, it will achieve good results, but it seems to me that, Mr. Minister, all the time you talk about sports, you're talking about the sport you've been playing. That's not what I'm arguing about. High-end results. I say again, I was in another kind of sport and that sport was destroyed for two reasons. The first reason are quasi managers and the second reason is what should never have been the main news from Serbia when we talk about sports, and regarding UEFA, it's a football match setup. That can't be news from Serbia when we talk about sports. Otherwise, I completely agree with you, education is very important. It's very important, you put out the number and number of people educated, but it's also a kind of control, one kind of inspection supervision of all sports institutions. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-06-0.u6306	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. According to Article 87(5), Rules of Procedure, I order Thursday, May 6th, starting at 18.05 a.m. as the Day of Vote on the items of the tenth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 164 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. I would like to thank Minister Udovic and his associates for their presence and representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, and since the amendments submitted have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments to the Law on Culture, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 170, for – 165, abstention – two, not three. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. I remind you that no amendments have been tabled on the draft laws referred to in points 2 and 3 of the agenda, so that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 160(3), will be submitted. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide only on proposals for laws in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the law on accreditation, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 175, for – 173, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accreditation. I'm putting the draft law on items of precious metal in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 176 for – 174 did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed a bill on items of precious metal. Fourth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle, and since the only amendment submitted has become an integral part of the Law proposal, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure only decide on the bill, in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total -177, for -177. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement, paragraphs 5 to 7 of the agenda, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. Paragraph 5 of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the social security agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Quebec, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -177, for – 175, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Paragraph 6 of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Amending Protocol and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States on Scientific and Technological Co-operation, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -177, for – 176, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Point 7 of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of - 179 for – 176 did not vote three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Before we move to a decision on the motion for a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 paragraph 13. The Constitution, the National Assembly, decides on the choice of judges by the majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. Point 8 of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office. I remind you of the provisions of Article 201(3) and Article 4. Rules of Procedure, which reads: "In the course of the search at the meeting of the committee responsible and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the MP may challenge the proposal for the selection of individual officials under Article 1, in which the dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. “ On a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, the National Assembly decides individually, and on a proposal to elect candidates who are not challenged decides in general, by public vote. “ One. In line with these provisions, I would like to put the motion to be elected by the judge of the Criminal Court in Vranj, Natasa Jovanovic, the judge's assistant at the basic court in Surdulica, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 179, abstention one, no vote 178. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Natasa Jovanovic to judge the Vranj Criminal Court. 2. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, who has submitted the High Council of the judiciary, without a disputed candidate in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 179 for - 176 did not vote three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Point 9 of the agenda. Before we move to a decision on the motion for a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 paragraph 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on the choice of judges by a majority vote of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I remind you of the provisions of Article 201(3) and Article 4. The Rules of Procedure, which I have just quoted concerning the dispute of individual candidates, where each of the disputed candidates is decided individually. In line with these provisions, I am voting to elect Srdjan Peric, the market inspector of the Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Telecommunications, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as a proposal. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 179 did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Srdjan Periæ as the judge of the Court of First Instance in the Great City. 2. I am voting on the proposal to elect Brankica Mladenovic, a judge's assistant at the Vranj basic court, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, to judge the primary court in Vranj. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Judge Branko Mladenov as the judge of Vranj's primary court. 3. I am voting on the proposal to elect Miljana Stosic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Nis, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as judge of the Court of Appeal in Nis. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly did not unanimously elect Judge Milena Stosic to judge the primary court in Vranj. 4. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivan Spasic, lawyer, the Bar Association of Nis, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as the judge of Vranje. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Ivan Spasic as the judge of the primary court in Vranj. 5. I would like to put the motion to elect Tatjana Petrov, judge at the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, to judge the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Tatjana Petrov as the judge of the Basic Court in Zrenjanin. Six. I am voting on the proposal to elect Marko Đuric, judge at the Court of Justice in Nis, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Mark Djuric as judge of the Basic Court in Nis. Seven. I would like to put the motion to elect Milica Pesic, judge of the Privredskim Court in Nis, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 did not vote 179. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Milica Pesic as judge of the Basic Court in Nis. 8. I am voting on the proposal to elect Stefan Zunic, the beneficiary of the initial training at the Judicial Academy, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as the judge of the General Court in Požega. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 did not vote – 179. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Stefan Zunic as the judge of the primary court in Požega. Nine. I am voting on the proposal to elect Milica Stanic, judge at the Primary Court in Priboj, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as judge of the primary court in Priboj. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 did not vote – 179. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Milica Stanic as the judge of the primary court in Prepolje. Ten. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ana Pejovic, director of the National Employment Service, the Generale Prijepolje, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as judge of the Basic Court in Prepolje. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 against – one, no vote – 178. I find that the National Assembly did not select Ana Pejovic as the judge of the primary court in Prepolje. 11. I am voting on a proposal to elect Oliver Babic, lawyer, the Cačak Bar Association, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as the judge of the Basic Court in Raska. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 did not vote – 179. I find that the National Assembly did not unanimously elect Oliver Babic as the judge of the basic court in Raska. 12. I would like to put the motion to elect Jelena Mirkovic, judge at the basic court in Sapac, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as judge at the basic court in Šapec. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 against – one, no vote – 178. I find that the National Assembly has not unanimously chosen Jelena Mirkovic as the judge of the basic court in Šapec. 13. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, without disputed candidates, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 179 for – 178, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision, in general. Allow me to congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf the elected functionholders of the election and wish them much success in their work. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have finished the vote, I would just like to remind you that I have scheduled for the next week of the 11th session of the first regular session, for Tuesday, 11 May, and that on the first day, we will discuss in a joint principled review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment and Insurance in the event of unemployment, the draft law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocides. As until now, as you know, we'll be working on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoon will be voting day. Please wait and sit down. The session isn't over until I close it. Since today was the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I would like to inform you that following an agreement with the representatives of the executive authority, namely Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Justice Minister Maja Popovic, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has determined that it is to submit a proposal for a change of the Constitution and the law, which means that we will schedule within not less than 30 days a special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will most likely be held on 7 June, in which we will decide on a proposal for a change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Affairs Committee will continue public discussions on this throughout Serbia and on certain professional and professional associations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the tenth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. Thank you.
