ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4351	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, dear friends, at the beginning of this agenda address, I am taking the opportunity to honor, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all the victims of NATO aggression on the Republic of Serbia. This is really the day when we can remember all the innocent victims, when we can remember the violations of international law, when we can remember one isolation that lasted since the early 1990s and the great injustices against our country and our people and which accumulated a criminal bombing, which, of course, did not break us as never in history. We can remember all sorts of things, but my thoughts today are focused on Vladimir Radojićic - pilot, Milenko Pavlovic, Tibor Cern, Naser Vucelj, Lazar Tišmu, Peđa Levac, Captain Krunoslav Ivanković, Goran Ostojić Major and many others who have left their families, left their friends, left their cities, put on a uniform, went to defend the people and freedom of this country and did not regret their own life, died bravely and not in vain, and we have no right to forget them. Whether we are officials of any kind or of any kind engaged in any public business in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, we have the right to say that something is difficult for us, that we can't bear any offense, that we can't bear any pressure if these brave people didn't mourn themselves and their lives to leave and defend this country in 1999. Dear People's MPs, before I move on to the agenda, you'll let me say just a few more sentences. These dark forces and those dark clouds that were in the 1990s and later tried and destroyed our people and not only our people, and the Bosniak brotherly people and other peoples in this country, they didn't disappear, and after so many years we know that the only one who stands in the way that they finish what they started is the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic and we who stand behind him and this people who stand and watch us fight and stop and prevent any attack on our country. As politicians, as people at the head of this country, we have no right to call ourselves to the past and we have no right to just look at a dose of discontent and any bad thoughts about the people who have been in conflict with us. I would remind you of the words of the famous and great Borislav Pekic - to look straight, for if it were to be looked behind us, we would have our eyes on the back of the head, to love the land of our children, and not our grandfathers. The honor will not depend on where we come from, but on where we're going. That is why the policy of the President of the Republic of politics that has allowed our people in both the country and abroad to see their heads up again, not to be trampled, our political and economic power to be revalued, the only real and possible policy in these circumstances. This is what this system, headed by the president, leads this country forward and that's why we've raised economic growth, so we've invested so much in infrastructure, and that's why this country can't in any way compare to what it looked like in 2010. Let me tell you before I say specifically about this law, let me also tell you about some of the information that air traffic really was catastrophic by coming to the crown. Our country has invested very much from 2013 to 2019 in the development of aviation and we have achieved excellent results in this field. I would remind you only that at the end of 2013, the total number of passengers at Belgrade airport was 3.5 million passengers and that in 2019 the total number of passengers was six million. In Nis, Constantin High Airport remembers the campaign when the government of the Republic of Serbia took over at its corner airport in Nis. In 2013, Nis had 21,700 passengers, and in 2019 he had 420,000 passengers. The amount of traffic in our country has reached 750,000 planes with 500,000 planes. Of course, by the arrival of the crown, the number of passengers and flyovers has fallen rapidly, both here and around the world. The number of passengers dropped 69% at Belgrade airport and 63% at Nis airport. In 2018, the government of the Republic of Serbia concluded a concession agreement at Nikola Tesla Airport with the company VINSI, a prestigious company, one of the largest on the planet. Once we received a concession, a 501m-euro fee that has helped us crucially under the difficult circumstances of fighting the coronary virus in March and April this year. The value of the VINSI investment plans is 732m euros, and over the next 25 years, we will get 228m euros more. I don't know if any of you have recently passed or travelled across the airport, since under these circumstances we're mostly closed, you'll see fantastic investments. The "Nikola Tesla" airport will soon look completely different and will not be able to identify it compared to the one it looked like in 2018. It was indeed a strategic decision, a carefully prepared decision, which will make a major contribution to development, not only to aviation, but to the economy of Belgrade and the economy of Serbia, when this virus monster passes. So, "Er Serbia" from one of the bodies of an airline such as JAT, from a company that was constantly on subsidies, from the worst services it had in Europe, not unfortunately these people, not thanks to these people, but to a non-systematic, unpredictable policy, that company was destroyed, "Er Serbia" increased in 2019 the number of passengers with a million and 400 000, as it was in 2014, to two million and 700 thousand, as it was in 2019. Today, when the circumstances are worst in air traffic, "Er Serbia" runs flights to 61 countries, regularly brings medical equipment, and via "Er Serbia" we are for the first time in history, it seems to me, giving economic assistance to certain countries that are much more developed than we are and are very grateful to it, such as Italy is not ashamed to publish this and are publicly grateful to us, and many were not ready to make it public, but we certainly got their feedback that they are satisfied. In 2021, we don't want to stop investment in air traffic. We think this monster will pass and we can't staticly wait for it to end and then go into investment. We want to take this opportunity to invest further in our airport infrastructure. We've allocated large funds to invest in an airport in Nis. Nearly 18m euros in construction of a new terminal building and reconstruction of an existing airline building. We built that airport before the crown, it became completely different. I say, from 21,000 passengers, we've led to 420 grand. We want him to have a million passengers as soon as the crown is finished. Of course, the construction of a new tower for SMATS, which will amount to four million euros, we have fully foreseen new equipment, we have already invested something, a deforestation vehicle, a vehicle for cleaning snow, an air starter, a tractor for pushing and pulling aircraft, an air supply aggregate, electricity, a passenger stairway, for this is foreseen 300m euros. We're not satisfied that the airport in Nis looks like it is today. It is not an auxiliary airport, it will tomorrow be an important regional airport that will transport people, not only from Serbia, but from Macedonia, Bulgaria and other places. We also allocated large funds to Rosulje Airport. We don't want to be too ambitious to make commercial, large airports about every place, but a small airport that will open a perspective for that area tomorrow if it takes it to continue its development, that's our goal. We continue to invest in Morava Airport in Kralje. We also set aside certain funds for Uzice Airport. We want to fence it, we want together with the company SDPR to make it a powerful, potentially and cargo, but also a passenger, I repeat again, a small airport, we don't want to waste ourselves, we don't want to make irrational projects. So we're making very careful preparations for projects so that tomorrow they have the potential to develop if the economic circumstances and the conditions of the coronary virus allow it, but we can't freeze the infrastructure. We predicted construction of technical documentation, construction of a terminal building with a technical block, for which we predicted 15 million dinars. Also, BiH's Trebinje airport, i.e. Republika Srpska. We've foreseen the production of project technical documentation, expropriation, certain means of operations. We carefully analyse Trebinje as a strategically important city for Bosnia and Herzegovina, as not only close, but more than close, more than a friendly country and we believe that the airport is needed in the coming period. We will work very carefully on it and invest carefully. As far as this law is concerned, air traffic has achieved the highest degree of harmonisation with European regulations. The bill, which is under discussion today, once again confirms the readiness of the Republic of Serbia to continue to apply the highest standards in civil aviation. The efforts of the Civil Aviation Directorate, SMATS and other competent bodies to ensure safe and safe air traffic are recognised not only on the European, but also on the world road. These standards are constantly changing and improving, and this is one direction towards that end. The National Assembly will allow the Civil Aviation Directorate and other competent authorities to maintain and improve safe and secure air traffic through the vote of this law. The Western Balkans region can and must become part of the common aviation area only by fully applying the existing EU rules. Dear Members of the People, dear friends, I hope you will pass this law, because it draws us all forward, draws us towards a common integrated market, and we have something to offer on that path. Thank you again. I stand open to all questions and hope for constructive dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4352	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do any of the boards of directors want a word? (No) Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups? Vice-President of the National Assembly, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4353	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have a very important topic, an agreement, namely the confirmation of an agreement on a common European airspace. It's seemingly procedural, but it's very important. Important and from the point of view of what every serious state needs, above all, that it has its airspace secured, because the sovereignty of a country is not complete if it only takes place on land level, but it is necessary to circle on an air level. However, in land sovereignty or land independence or defence, it is much simpler to be independent until the end. that you can edit your own land space in security and in any other way. However, when it comes to air security, or air space control, there is definitely one country, and even though large countries are not so simple or almost impossible to provide that space. What is actually seen from the necessity of this agreement, which includes a very significant number of countries, and especially surrounding countries, including Iceland, which obviously has certain competences in this regard, in order to actually enter into the society of the people with regard to the provision and arrangement of airspace. If we were to view this from a Colloquial point of view or a Colloquial definition, then we could somehow call this an air euro integration. Now, what's coming to my eye is that these air euro integrations go faster and simpler than these other euro integrations. Thinking about, or considering this subject while I was preparing for this presentation, this time my view was up to the sky, not into the ground. Most of our subjects are earthly, but here today we have one topic that we can freely call a heavenly theme. True, the heavenly themes are very close to me, and they are very inspiring to me. Thinking about it, I remembered that idea of a celestial people and a celestial state. True, this idea was once treated very seriously with some political aspects, and then with other political aspects is often ridiculed and ridiculed. The idea of a heavenly state and a heavenly nation is an old Bible idea, and it cannot be ridiculed. The truth is that it can be misunderstood and misunderstood. I would never reject that idea, and I think it should exist. True, these are these superidealistic ideas that, when translated into an earthly language, lose this idealistic aspect, but in an idealistic sense, they play a strong inspirational role. What is the idea of a celestial people or a celestial state for me, and if it had its right and positive role? In fact, the idea of a chosen nation is an idea of Bible origin and Bible proportions, and it is not new. She's not new to Serbia. It may have been misrepresented here in Serbia in the 1990s, misrepresented, mistreated and mistreated and misrepresented and miscreantly criticised. However, it can be given the right position and the right role. True, it's an idea that every nation can resort to, but like any other ultra-idealistic idea, it's used as an inspiration. What's the essence of the idea? In fact, ideas, even though these particular materialistic systems and the concept of ideas have kind of baffled it, even brought it into a negative context, so when you say ideology, you usually think of a rigid human idea that always produces certain destructions in implementation. However, the concept of ideology itself is basically not negative, because it comes from an idea, and the idea itself is, in fact, from the ancient Greek concept – idios, which means God. Actually, the idea is God's idea. That's why that term can never be negative. He can only be misunderstood and misused. In fact, only the lexical or this etemological meaning of this word indicates that only what has to do with God is the right idea. Everything other than God, in a fundamental or true sense, is not really a real idea. That's what you should understand from this idea. That's why it's idealistic of God and it's essentially the best, but it's also unattainable. Therefore, the purpose of ideas and idealism is to strive for the best idea, with knowledge and awareness that it can never be applied to the end. That's why it's the role of the idea to be an unsanitary inspiration, because if it could be applied to the end, then it wouldn't be a real idea. I mean, any idea that's expendable isn't really an idea. Only an idea that cannot be spent is the right idea, which forever, while centuries and world, will last as an inspiration for a man in an individual and collective sense. In that sense, and all the ideas that are related to the heavenly chosen people, the heavenly people, the heavenly state, are ideas that have basis in God's announcements, in God's words, and cannot be spent. The problem is, if these ideas are used in the daily sense, if they are used for some purposes that are not good and honorable. Then the problem is when you use these ideas. What would be the real purpose of this idea in every nation, in our country, or in any other country? If the idea of a chosen celestial people or a celestial state were actually to be positioned by imposing a valuable system of aspirations towards the best in its behaviour, in its quality, according to the best in the building of its family, according to the best in building a harmonic society, harmonious in spiritual, harmonic in economic, harmonic in an ethical, harmonic, in any other sense, if we were to establish a cultural such value system, then we would actually have a real relationship to celestial ideas, and that would actually be one new dynamic, one new atmosphere. Imagine now a nation, a nation that would not make its identity, its quality, its value bound to the banality of the tribe, the banality of origin, the banality of the storks. Of course, this isn't a gender negation, but the gender category is a necessary category. Gender category is not a value category. Belonging to one generation, tribe, or nation, means being born without having to decide where you'd be born, without your own will, with your own knowledge, by your own freedom, I would be this, or I wouldn't be that. These necessary categories should be respected, but no one can be evaluated in the necessary categories. It cannot be valued, therefore, by skin colour, by race, by nation, by any category in which you do not have a choice of will. Now, in my deep conviction, the old or that already outdated concept of the 19th-century nation definition has already been overcome. In fact, we have a problem at the level of the entire civilization, including that first order of human civilization that is seen in Western civilization, in the very perception of the understanding of the nation. So all of the concepts of understanding of the nation are outdated, and that's why we now have this collapse between the classical understanding of the nation, on the one hand, and all of these analytical globalistic and other aspirations, on the other hand, where we have neither on the other side of the offered quality concepts, we already have an attempt to supersede with certain levers of power, in the absence of actual arguments of truth. In fact, for this reason, we have a kind of cultural crisis that leads slowly to cultural collapse in the most developed part of the world. So, all those nations that want to keep up or not lose a step with modern, primarily culturally identical challenges, will have to revise their understanding of the nation. If the nation does not move into what it should basically be, in the modern concept and perception of the tribe, which means the nation - the community of people who are the same or near generation, but who are not the only and common denominator of the closeness of the tribe, but who have the strength to produce and build the headquarters of their gathering in a valuable sense, where the community that calls itself a nation will actually valorize itself, evaluate in good things, where they will reward and punish evil, by establishing this principle, by ordering, by seeking and rewarding good, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, by denying banning and punishing evil and what is bad, with such an orientation, it would be a modern understanding of nations that would get new dynamics and new energy for raising their nation, the ranks in their nation, especially their youth. Otherwise, returning to the nineteenth century concept of the nation is a spent thing and it cannot produce results, as well as, on the other hand, the acceptance of a completely analytical globalist concept also means losing. You need to look for a way between these two, and that's possible if you have the right ideas. Brothers and sisters, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to maintain an identity exclusively with economic and interest issues. Economic-interest issues are important, especially as the crisis, as money is important only until you have it. The moment you have it, it stops being important. So money, economics, economics satisfy the biological aspect of man, but the moment you eat, feed that man and his biology, his animal aspect, it will not satisfy his human needs, his cultural needs, his spiritual needs, his ethical needs. So, in parallel with all economic programs, we need to intensify all other programs that will be ready for the moment when we feel thirst, and collectively more and more that thirst feels, to feed our own needs in the cultural, ethical, once expressed in human terms. So, so much for celestial ideas that may not be a common topic for this Parliament, especially not so transparently, but in the end we are different, that in our diversity we would exchange their ideas, their thoughts, in order to show in this Parliament our own capacity for cultural or intercultural exchange, which is one of the key, to say, generators and development of culture itself. When it comes to the reflections of this topic, specifically on our space, this is a good step, confirming this agreement is undeniable, but what needs to be done on, and we have heard certain ideas and visions and from the minister, what we should insist on is Serbia's willingness to have a quality air service. Of course, there have been certain aspirations so far to have a network of quality air services, but I'm not sure those strategies were good. I remember, given that some ideas about the "Ladjevci" Airport in Kraljev were then presented in Novi Pazar as useful for Sandzak and Novi Pazar, on some route between certain Turkish politicians, politicians in Sandzak and then the government, I was the opponent of that idea, which now proved to be the investment of the "shipmen" airport in the King's missed investment, because it is there at 120km, no more, or 30km from Belgrade. You'll have, especially after now, a highway has been built and when that highway is completely approaching the airport, you'll have very little potential for that airport to really work. That's why airports need to be built to the periphery. So we are very pleased to have raised the issue, along with the ruling coalition, the issue of building an airport in the Sandzak area, not defining exactly where, where it is most useful and necessary. In the context of solving this problem in the near future or in the future we will still talk about this, but it is necessary to build airports where there is real justification, where you have a strong diaspora, a great potential of passengers, and also where you will be able to develop more significantly and cargo traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4354	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4355	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, began the implementation of the Joint European Aviation Area project as early as 2004. It was created then as a need to overcome the problems that existed in the sky above the European Union, and these were problems that related to the divided sky, so to speak, and created a negative effect on the efficiency of the airline. The airlines wasted more time, spent more resources to get through all the necessary controls and thus to reach the desired destinations. The aim of the agreement we are discussing today is to achieve a free aviation market, define common conditions for the establishment of businesses in this area, and above all I must point out that these conditions should regulate relations concerning the protection of competition in this area and consumer rights. And this agreement allows states signatories to access the air market freely. As a result of market liberalisation, conditions are met for lower ticket prices and a higher choice of air carriers. Indeed, this idea has come to life with us. At Nis airport, they functioned before the crisis broke out due to the pandemic of the low-tariff company's coronary virus and it was cheaper at one point to buy a return plane ticket to some Western countries than to ride a bus back and forth. I am saying all of this from one aspect of the regulation of the aviation market and the interest of the airline, but this agreement also protects the interests of consumers, i.e. passengers. When we ask ourselves how we are entitled to certain types of compensation for the delay of the plane due to the delay of the trip, for the loss of luggage, we must say that it is part of the credit and this agreement. In this part, our legislation is well based on legislation in force in the European Union and on this basis we exercise rights when we talk about air transport. Serbia signed an agreement with the European Union on a common European aviation area in 2006 and the agreement was ratified here in the National Assembly three years later. It is the first agreement Serbia has signed, the first of the international agreements Serbia has signed since the collapse of Serbia-Montenegro's state union. We have thus taken the obligation to comply with domestic regulations with regulations in force in the European Union in the field of aviation security, security, air traffic management, airport management, consumer protection, market liberalisation and environmental protection. Otherwise, Serbia is a signator of over 30 multilateral agreements in the area of civil aviation. It all started in 1944 with the signing of the Chicago Convention and another significant since 1999, the Montreal Convention, which regulates international transportation of persons, luggage, air transport goods. I must point out that it is an important link in implementing the agreement and regulating all issues in this area of the Civil Aviation Directorate. The Directorate, in accordance with the Air Traffic Act, participates in the work of international aviation organisations, institutions and their working bodies. The directorate is also a coordinator when we talk about co-operation with the European Commission. It is the European Commission that has been following Serbia's development path since 2006 in this area, and the goal is actually set at the beginning and we are achieving it in this way, which is the full integration of our aviation system into the European Union's aviation system. Just when we talk about harmonising our regulations with European Union regulations, we must point out that we have also shown this willingness to do so in the best possible way, we have shown responsibility, we have followed movements and changes in this area, movements and changes in the market, and in line with this and today we are discussing annexes relating to this agreement. In this way we accept the standards of developed European countries and thus raise the standard of living in Serbia. This agreement is another proof of our country's commitment to co-operate with everyone, especially with countries in the region. We at SDPS always point out that all conflicts and inappropriate rhetoric should be behind us, that it should be agreed, that consultations should be made to make quality agreements that will improve life not only in Serbia. In this way, we create a favourable environment for further economic development in Serbia as well as in the region. We as signatories of an agreement like this promote in some way and dialogue, promote good neighbourly relations, and only so can we solve problems that when they break out are not unique to us, they become characteristic for the whole region, for the whole world. It was best seen last year after the pandemic crisis broke out. The airline, or airline industry, may have suffered the most severe blow. Rarely, an economic branch has suffered such a blow as the airline industry. People almost don't travel, airlines do have a problem, they're forced to fire a large number of employees. We have an example from Montenegro where they were forced to shut down the national airline and are now in the process of establishing a new one. We need not go any further than to see what kind of problems the whole world faces. At global level, it is still uncertain how many airlines will go bankrupt. I'm going to say some examples that the situation is alarming, that American air transport companies have asked for $50 billion's help, so they think they need to solve the problems. British airlines believe they need nine billion dollars to solve the problems that have arisen. The aircraft manufacturer Boing asked the White House for help to consolidate. His competitor in Europe, Erbas, suspended production in France and Spain for four days at a time. All this suggests that a serious programme for the recovery of airlines will be needed not only in the world, but also in the whole market in both the region and Serbia. The minister recently presented data that were really optimistic before the crisis broke out and related to both the number of passengers and the number of flights. He also talked about the operation of the airport in Belgrade, concessions, and in Nis, but also about the airport Morava near Kraljev. I can't agree that Morava Airport is a missed investment. It's an airport that's been announced for ten years. It's recently finished, as promised. This airport in a wider area, if I may say so, is gravitated by two million inhabitants, in the vicinity of 750,000 inhabitants. It is the airport where large cities, first of all Kraljevo, Čačak, is located near Kragujevac, we can say Free and Užice, but also Novi Pazar. This airport is even more important if we take into account what is now being done, if we consider it, which is the construction of the highway from Preljina to Pojat which will connect the cities of Kraljevo, Vrnjakbanju, Trstenik, Kruševac, Cicevic. That way we circled one image and I think we'll successfully complete that process and complete one traffic infrastructure. This is very important for the central part of Serbia where I come from, because that through the highway network, so we have Corridor 10, Corridor 11, between them, they are connected by the Preljina-Pozega highway and the Morava airport in Brodjevci, which is actually the crown of this successful operation on the traffic infrastructure plan. The airport started working, they were active for two summers, one for Vienna, one for Thessaloniki. The crisis of course, as I said earlier, affected that the airport, like everyone in the world, would stop its work, but I hope it will return to the old routes after the crisis is over. My question for the minister is is it in any way considered that Morava Airport works for the lou bone company? I think that would be good for this region of Serbia. I know it works in Nis, but in the future it certainly wouldn't be bad for the King, as I said, and for Kragujevac, Cačak, Novi Pazar, because it would benefit all citizens of central Serbia. This is why it is important to have good cooperation with all the participants in this area and with all the international institutions in order to better overcome the crisis that has affected everyone and has not bypassed anyone in the world, when we talk about aviation. When we talk about this agreement that we are discussing today, it is an agreement that is informally entitled "Open Sky". On this day, again, unfortunately, we must remember that this sky was very dreary above Serbia on 24 March 1999 and we are obliged to always remember, not only on this day, but always on all victims, all who were killed in the bombing of Serbia. On behalf of the SDS today, I will condemn one such aggression and express hope that these evil times will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4356	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4357	Just for a little while. Your Honor, thank you for this question and for your comment. Of course the Morava airport is not a missed investment, and what does missing investment mean? When we came to power, so to speak, that airport was already practically built. It would be crazy if we tried to bring history back. We, of course, continued to invest, and in this year we predicted a large amount of funding, for the expropriation of 300 hectares of land for the needs of that airport. Of course, these circumstances where we have now found ourselves as a planet, as a world, the conditions of the pandemic that is the worst in modern history, we don't know that aviation will come out of this, but certainly this isn't the end of air traffic and these circumstances, and we know that from history, and the worst circumstances open up some perspectives. We will also prepare Morava airport and Nis airport, other smaller airports, that when the conditions of the pandemic are stabilised to get us out stronger. We're not gonna bury something the governments invested before we did. So, of course, the lou bone is primarily options for this airport. It meets all conditions for international air traffic to take place. He is significant, as you said, for all of Serbia, above all for the King, Cachak, and then for Novi Pazar. We certainly, if you'll allow me, please, have prepared serious investments to reconstruct the path of King-New Market. We're calling a tender and we're gonna have quality communication. So, I could talk a lot broadly about it, but be assured that we will do everything we can to make sure that when the pandemic is quieted down, the "Mova" airport is a small, efficient, modern, reliable, quality service, of course, for the Lou bone company, and then, of course, for our parent company "Er Serbia" which is the strongest company in Southeast Europe. We're the only ones who've managed to save our air force and we're doing it now. I'm not sure we understand for ourselves what Serbia is today, what it was in 2010. Here, let's just talk about aviation, let's look back at the unemployment rate, let's look at the economic standard, air traffic follows all this. So this would conclude, the Morava airport will be a modern, high-quality, medium-sized airport, to the joy, above all, of the citizens of central Serbia, and then of course the entire Republic of Serbia. Thanks again for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4358	Thank you. Vice President Zukorlic answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4359	I understand local patriotism, I understand the Royals, and I don't want them to understand me in any way in a way that I believe this airport shouldn't survive, it's born, it's rocking it. So now he needs to keep living, he needs to find a purpose, but time will show, what I'm saying will be confirmed, that it's quickly arranged and wrong then, because it's okay, you'll now be pulling 100 kilometers, 120 kilometers from the New Market passengers for the King, or for the Shipmen, but as long as he needs to get out of the Pryboy passengers, from Prepolje. Why? When we have an airport, say somewhere in the position of the Cave, between Tutina, Novi Pazar and Sjenica, you will then drag both northern Kosovo and northern Montenegro or southern Sandzak. So the point here is what your range is. Secondly, you have from the Sandzak area, if we count the Turkish diaspora, over a million people from that area outside, who will travel, who will come to Sandzak, for example from Turkey or Western Europe, and then will travel another 120km to Novi Pazar, 160/170 to Tutina, 180 to Sjenica, 190 and 200 to Prepolje and so on. So here we're talking about that's not elaborate enough then. But since it is invested, there is no going back, the King, or the ship's purpose, a certain time will show what it is for, whether it's going to be a passenger airport or just a cargo, it should be given, and I support the Ministry to do everything to save that airport. In the end, it will not endanger the possibility of opening a new airport in Sandzak space, which will actually have one quality network and share some roles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4360	Thank you. Branimir Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4361	Thank you. There was no reason for the previous replica, and I have no intention of replicating it, it really wasn't in a bad context, I just want to say that I'm trying to modernise Morava Airport doesn't mean I'm against other airports. It's a good thing it's announced and there's going to be an airport in Novi Pazar, in perspective, that's certainly what makes me happy, that's another good news. If we look at only the environment, if we look at other European countries, we cannot say that Serbia is rich at the number of airports, but still, I want to be optimistic and think in this direction optimisticly, as we are now on the right track, that our economic activities will develop at the same pace and that in the future we will need even more airports, not only Morava, but not only Novi Pazar, there are Ponikva, and we will support any such initiative that all the regions of Serbia have an airport, because this will primarily improve business activities, but also facilitate travel for residents from these parts.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4362	Thank you. National MP Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4363	Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with an associate and associate, the Honorable People's MPs, it's a good thing you gave a statement that you're not going to bury anything, I'm not going into the controversy of two colleagues, but it's good. That airport has been standing for years as an airport for small planes, so to speak, try to finish it and keep it alive. Now let me get to the point. Without air traffic today, the world is unimaginable, starting from the moment the first plane was constructed to this day, the airline industry and air traffic have progressed. Thanks to air traffic since the early 20th century, the world has been connecting faster. Air traffic is a kind of traffic internet, because the fastest kind of traffic that takes place at long distances is the fastest link between continents. Air traffic includes the civil and military sectors and are both very important for each country, civilians due to the rapid transport of passengers and goods, and the military is involved in strengthening security power. Serbia can be proud of both its civilian and its military air force. Our civil aviation company Er Serbia, founded back in 1927, shows that Serbia was still among the advanced European states when it comes to air traffic. Today, our company is flying 63 destinations around the world, both in passenger and freight traffic, and it is important to say that JAT, and today ER Serbia, is a member of the International Aviation Association. That Serbia is paying attention to the development of air traffic, also tells the fact that it is harmonising its standards with EU standards. Today, we have an amendment to the multilateral agreement between the EU, its Member States and individual European states, including Serbia, as an associated country, whose primary objective is to establish a common European area in order to ensure the same conditions and standards for taking place in the overall European sky. Otherwise, a basic multilateral agreement relating to civil air traffic between the EU and its Member States and other countries of Europe, including Serbia, has been ratified in 2009. At that time, the Agreement is ratified with Annex 1 to which this ratification today is to be replaced by new Annex 2, the Agreement. These changes were necessary due to changes in the EU's regulatory framework in the area of air traffic. The largest number of amended regulations relate to areas directly related to civil aviation, i.e. Air security, air security and air traffic management. These changes were caused by, among other things, the establishment and the expansion and change of the competence of certain EU bodies in the area of civil aviation. All these changes have been proposed by the Joint Committee in the organisation, which consists of representatives of all signatories. Serbia, as an acceding non-Multilateral agreement country, is due to confirm the decision of the Joint Committee of 31 July 2019, replacing Annex 1 to this Agreement with a new Annex 2. The Socialist Party of Serbia and its MPs will vote in favour of the law. Once again, I am sure that all MPs will speak today, at least one word about the day marked here as a significant day of the history of the Serbian people. You've already mentioned several heroes who died in the defense of the country for this country. I also remind you of the people who worked and rebuilded the country and in a year and a half restored everything that people from the West, our so-called. Friends crashed, mercilessly, under the term “Blessed Angel. ” Two hundred companies also worked 150,000 workers, 2,000 projectors restored the country in a year and a half. It was a 30 billion dollar damage, direct, so all that was destroyed and 110 billion total damage indirect. We have never compensated that damage, and today the question is what is wrong with that war damage. That's why we remember this day and we'll remember it, and well said the president of the state, we won't forget it, but we'll remember it. One question for you, Minister, I have the right not to be like my friend Palma not to lecture on all topics, infrastructure has an extraordinary position in our society, and in that part the President's energy is fantastic. The results are visible, and I won't comment on that. There's one piece of advice, it's good when we get into agreements with foreign countries about credit, because international banks don't lend credit to what's not of interest to Europe. So, let's go with our partners from China, Russia, etc., but it's important when we negotiate the project to be done, not to be done by them. It can't happen that on the Belgrade-Bar track, the remont rails that our designers, all our institutes, are working by some foreigners today, and that the Russians who are the main performers, don't take our businesses. A tender for the 2020/30 traffic strategy is now under way. That's where three of the world's foreign companies came in, not to name them now. Just one, she took Israeli as a partner and a domestic institute. Don't forget the domestic designers, it's very important for the further lives of these ongoing investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4364	Thank you. Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4365	Thank you for reminding me that I didn't mention the people who were rebuilding the country, it's certainly another magnificent victory of our country in these very difficult circumstances, but if you let me just mention that in that aggression 54 buildings of road infrastructure, 44 bridges, 18 bridges of railway infrastructure, 140 buildings of high-building, where housing and public buildings are listed. By registering the military and the MUP, we've come up with data that a total of 25,000 residential buildings have been destroyed and damaged, 470km of roads disabled, 595km of tracks. 14 airports, 19 hospitals, 20 homes of health, 18 kindergartens, 69 schools, 176 monuments of culture and 44 bridges were damaged, 38 were destroyed, but this people were not broken, quickly rose up and restored, and of course, no one can deny, each of you must honor that you were at the head of the Building Directorate, or what was then called the Land Reconstruction Directorate, you certainly put yourself recorded by that act, if nothing, in the construction history of this country. I'd like to look back on a few of the things you said, certainly under these difficult circumstances, these economic and epidemiological crises, and before that, the policy of the President of the Republic recognized where the government should invest is primarily infrastructure. The government's job is not to deal with business but to open up opportunities for people to do business, to work, to deal with economic affairs, and the state has to build infrastructure. In terms of the pandemic when private investment is compromised, when the general recession is, we often forget in this country that we are the number one, or the best in Europe to fight this monster. We're the most open country. We have the most vaccines. It's not an accident, and if it seems to us here to live a hard life, and we live a hard life, and we probably destroyed young generations, not us, but these circumstances. Or, first of all, to be perfectly honest, the President of the Republic with his engagement, put us in a position to be number one on vaccination, number one in the matter of possession of medical equipment and to have the opportunity to keep such an economic life open. I'm going back to the infrastructure. We have, first of all, brought ourselves to be partners from EU countries, America, Russia, China, Azerbaijan, Turkey. We're trying to balance it, to make it useful, not just for our people, but for our companies. I would remind you and all the friends who sit here, gentlemen of the people's messengers and citizens, that we don't have any construction trucks that stand today. We develop “know how”. It's not our goal to hire a simple workforce tomorrow, we want this investment cycle to use it to turn our engineers and our employees into leaders, not to have free workers, but team leaders, engineers, project leaders, people who are going to lead Europe and the world of major projects like these today. You know the Belgrade-Novi Sad fast track. It will be the fastest and highest quality railway in Eastern Europe. I'm not sure, you know it better than I do, has Serbia ever had anything that is best in Eastern Europe? How do we explain this to the citizens? That's what you need to see. The president will visit the fast track tomorrow, we will see final work, by the end of the year it will be completed and put into circulation, fast trains driving 200 per hour, in 30 minutes you are from Belgrade to Novi Sad. Belgrade and Novi Sad are becoming one city. Comfortably you will be able to live in Novi Sad and work in Belgrade and vice versa, to sit in Belgrade and go to Novi Sad to the Serbian National Theatre, look, eat, come back. We thus raise the quality of life incredibly much. We have circumstances today, since the highway "Milos the Great", or part of Belgrade-Cacchak, is finished, that it is faster for you to come from Cačka to Šimanovac than, for example, from Zvezdare. That's big stuff. The other day, I went to Koserić to visit our friends on the train there. The Belgrade-Valjevo track was reconstructed for speed 120 per hour. People advised me, political advisors, because, as you know, I've been primarily from the private sector, since I was almost in politics, they told me – you need to talk to the people on the train. I said, "How am I going to talk?" I don't feel comfortable, but they tell me, "That's the job, you have to." I run into a woman, a lady, a lady, she works in Belgrade and lives in Valjevo. I ask her – is that convenient for you? She says - about an hour and a half, I just rest from the kids, read something, I have a nice house there, so I can afford it in Belgrade, this is just for a while for me, trains are comfortable, they're great, if they're "The Studlers," are they Russian... So much has been invested, so much has been done, what's been talked about for decades, we can see it now, and we'll only see it in a year, two days. We're building countless highways now. The truth is, there's a lot of foreign interference, I don't know what better word to say than "know how," knowledge. They take our jobs, certain financial institutions when they finance these projects, of course, they finance them by channeling them to their companies. But believe me, wherever it's possible, we're channeling to our paths. We've buried the CIP, we've buried the Roadways with our projects. On the terms of the crown, freedom can be said, we massacred them. They worked under the crown. I really thank these people, they're real fighters. Because we often forget all those people who are locked up in offices and who work to deliver to the workers so they can do all these work. Our goal is not only to build infrastructure, although, of course, it is first to build infrastructure for our people, of course, to preserve the macro-economics, but to get our companies, our construction companies back to where they were, to be real companies, to have the experience of the best projects currently being built in this country. The largest projects in Southeast Europe are being built in this country today. The country is today a pillar of investment, a pillar of the economic power of the region, and of course a pillar of political strength. I thank you once again for asking, and I apologize for making this a little longer with the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4366	Thank you. Mr. Mrkonjic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4367	I've already praised the state and government as much as they invest in infrastructure, not to mention the details. When we talk about designing, it's a very important topic, here's a fast track, you've told me well, the Belgrade-Novi Sad highway. In parallel with that share, which is the first in Eastern Europe, the knots – the Belgrade knot, which is not finished, is a little short, for a year, is just as much, now you've already evicted half the term, the New Sad knot, has to end. Technology is fantastically sensitive. That's where our engineers have to work. That's what you said. Our young experts who know the job. Designed by strangers and built by strangers, that's not good. That's what I'm commenting on. It's very important to involve our economy. Metro. It's good to work, French technology is worldly, it's good to have Chinese people building there, but it's also good to have our projectors working and our companies working – "Energoproject", "Plans", etc. That's very important, because it remains maintenance. Metro, that's what you said. Long-term investment. This is very important to me, and this should be taken into account in the conclusion of the contract. I know what that means. And in the government in 2008-2012, we changed course because Europe and European banks pay only what they care about, Corridor 10. And we provided money in six months, because it's of interest to Europe, even on shares that weren't attractive. For example, Nis-Dimitrovgrad, where there were not even 5,000 calls a day, but Europe is interested. Belgrade-Cacchak, hard. It's our investment, and that's why we went in with our partners from abroad. But when you negotiate with them and when you say -- let's say, 50% of your performers and 50% of our project we have to have. What does that mean? You must fight for the project to be a normal item in the budget, I see no other ministry than yours, at least for two companies -- "Serb Corridors" and "Serbia Roads" for the maintenance and construction of new highways. It's got to be done in advance. You have no need today, thanks to the state behind you all your strengths, to work quickly, to project in haste. You don't need that. So the project has to be completed, so it can be done. Just one little anecdote, I won't bother, about the fill-in. After October 5th, famous Democrats, come on, it doesn't matter now, I was a member of that government in 2008, they buried the Belgrade Node facilities, they have 20 km of tunnels. Don't do this kind of crazy thing. I'm talking about Morava Airport now. We barely survived that. And today is the end of the knot. I advise you to immediately engage in the realisation of the job, to complete the Prokop station, the Zemun technical and passenger station, and to make the Belgrade knot work and to take a parallel next year with the Belgrade-Novi Sad railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4368	Thank you. The word has Minister Tomislav Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4369	I don't have anything to argue with. I'm just going to draw back what's only in the travel infrastructure. Because, of course, as you said, the subway works, along with "Aston", and as you said yourself, French technology is the leading technology in the rail systems. We have to teach our engineers how to do it through this project. These are really amazing projects. The Belgrade Metro Project is projected according to the French 14-line model, the most modern. Of course, we do it to the end rationally, because we're not drunk millionaires, we're a serious government that seriously implements this investment and that's what the President of the Republic of Serbia is asking us to do, that's what citizens expect of us, that's what you, as MPs, expect of us. I will tell you, that there would be no doubt, what all domestic companies are projecting now and what has been done: Preljina - Požega, Moravian Corridor, Fruskogorski Corridor, Novi Belgrade - Surčin, Belgrade - Zrenjanin is projecting ours, exiting of Pozharjevac-Velika Gradište-Golubac, Nis - Pristina, Kuzmin - Sremska Raca and Preljina - Kotorman, as well as two directions of the highway to Sarajevo, Sombor - Kikinda, Ruma - Šabac, Šabac - Loznica, five bypasses, bypass around Belgrade, bypass around Novi Sad, bypasses, which are practically the new corridor around Kragujevac, covered Knic, Mrčajevci, so it goes out to the Moravi Corridor and bypasses, of course, around the new infrastructures, which are currently forgotten around Novazovnica, which are around the new infrastructures, which are around the new. The number of projects is really huge. All of them, as you have well noticed, and I would like to underline it once again, are the result and have begun fiscal consolidation, the reconstruction of the financial budget, the great steps that the President of the Republic has taken and allowed this government to invest this economic power. It is our obligation, both to the people, and to you as MPs, and as President of the Republic who is at the head of our policy, to implement these projects in a record-breaking, maximum speed, maximum rational terms. That is what we can do and be confident that we will do our best, such as our heroes, the Falcons of Koshar, gave their lives, but they did not allow the enemy to step into the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. That's what we're gonna do. Of course, we can't compare ourselves to these people, we're very small for them, but as someone who's in some role right now, we're going to do our best, really our best, not saving ourselves in any field to get these projects done as effectively as possible. I'm sorry I made it too long. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4370	Thank you. Mr. Mrkonjic again, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4371	To commend the minister for keeping the people sitting next to him, the lady and this young boy. Don't change associates who know the job. Let me just give them a little commendation. Although the lady would have to take off her mask, to be seen by the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4372	Thank you. Next up is MP Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4373	Thank you, Chairman. President-in-Office of the Assembly, respected ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we have before us the draft law confirming the Decision and the Agreement on a Common Aviation European Area, a very important decision and a parliamentary group of JS in the voting day will support the draft law, or that decision. Minister, at the very beginning, let me say that I come from Kragujevac and I am glad that you mentioned the investments that will come to Kragujevac and the investments that come to Serbia at all. This is very important for all regions in Serbia. Returning to the bill itself to say when it comes to the agreement, it works so that our country is recognised as part of a European common space, but only on one condition, if we fully apply all the rules set before us. Our legislation, Ministers, is fully in line with European legislation, so we have no problem in one part, let's say, annexing this agreement. The Annex 1 to the Agreement also defines certain objectives, when we talk about this topic, about this agreement, so free market access, freedom of establishment of businesses, conditions of competition, joint traffic management, common rules in the area of aviation security. The last time this agreement was annexed in 2009 and since 2009 it has really been a long time, many things have changed. So this new decision today is making new regulations that are divided into two groups. The first concerns direct civil aviation, and the second makes up rules that are applied indirectly, regarding the social absect. What's very important, a little while ago and you talked about it, about where "Er Serbia" is right now, but I have to say that this pandemic of the coronary virus, which has affected the whole world, brought the apocalypse, I can say freely, and it seems to me, will agree with you, in air traffic on a global scale. So, the coronary virus has pushed the whole world into trouble, many major economies are on their knees, and according to the expert's estimates, the airline is the most affected. The latest projection of the International Air Traffic Association suggests that the number of passengers in 2020 compared to 2019 has been reduced by as little as 50%, according to some data, that the number of passengers in 2020, compared to 2019, has been reduced by nearly three billion passengers. So, according to estimates of the same, if this continues, some of the returns to the old ones that we had before the crown of the virus will only be possible in 2024. Also, some companies couldn't survive, they were reducing their financial obligations, the number of workers were shrinking, some couldn't survive, so large aircraft manufacturers, we've heard this before today, like US Boeing, European Erbas, had to work to reduce workers. So, in the fight against the consequences of the coronal virus on business, job shutdown and wage reduction, no company in the global aviation industry has bypassed, or should I say in the aviation industry, nor has our Serbian national air carrier, Er Serbia. Compared to the year before the pandemic, our company only acts now with 40%, if I'm not mistaken, Minister, but there is a state. So, "Er Serbia" is important for Serbia, to help fully in each part. Also, on the other hand, it should be said that there are two organisations involved in air traffic security and providing services above our airspace. The first is the Serbia-Montenegro flight control of SMATS, a state air traffic control agency. So it covers Serbia, Montenegro and part of Bosnia. I think it's about 55% of BiH's space. On the other hand, the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia is a public agency that performs the tasks entrusted to it and the Air Traffic Act is aimed at making the air, navigation and safety system more reliable and efficient. Now, Minister, an important topic, when we talk about the Air Force and the PSC, today ends 22 years after 19 powerful countries have committed aggression on our country. So 78 days of bombing, over two and a half thousand victims, and of which a large number of children and over 12,500 wounded, the same number of children. This whole thing I'm saying, the aftermath was a duck, and no one was ever prosecuted for Rack. So, one fictional, let me say, thing and I just want to say that so far, for all that has been done to Serbia, no one has responded. They bombed and killed Serbia only to take away Kosovo. Minister, they thought it was completely over in 2008, but after many years, Serbia stands upright and we move ahead with big steps. You were just talking about what segments we've all stepped into. Not to mention again, we're the best in Europe as far as vaccination is concerned. Our economic growth is the largest in Europe. On the other hand, the unemployment rate is below 10%. More than 60% of the investments coming into this region are heading towards Serbia. These are all the results of Serbia. What is important, there is the President of the Assembly, the former foreign minister, as many as 18 countries have withdrawn recognition and, let me say, the country's quasi, self-proclaimed and at this point they do not have a majority regarding the UN. I have to say, we have to remember this. We must not forget, but we must move forward in order for Serbia to move forward. I mentioned earlier, Minister, when it comes to the Air Force and the PSC, I have to say here and that, Serbia, not to repeat the time when our sky was not defended. We didn't have any planes. Today, Serbia's sky protects 14 modern MiGs 29, Mi-17V helicopters, Mi-35M, H-145M, as well as drones. In addition to the Kub and Neva PVO systems we have had, we have acquired a powerful S1 Pancir system and I hope that in some future we may also get a system of maybe S300, S400 or perhaps Chinese FK1 system. I'm saying all this because Serbia is seriously protecting its sky today, its borders and guaranteeing its country's security. Once again at the very end, let me say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4374	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4375	I'd just like to look around for a little while. You're absolutely right, Mr. Kosanovic. Nothing will be the same after this pandemic is over. That's the only thing that's safe. The air force certainly suffered the biggest blow and the question is how and how will it recover and get out of this, but one thing is for sure, this will not be the end of aviation and air traffic, but it will also come out in some new forms or the same. We certainly with "Er Serbia", one powerful, no longer only local, not only regional, but European company, will be those who will take the market. We, in these circumstances, are taking over the market. We're expanding. We can't back down. We've already invested a lot. We have raised standards, we have raised the knowledge of the people who run our pilots' company and we are ready not to be the leading regional company, but one of the strongest European companies when things relax. Of course, it's encouraging that air traffic rises to America's territory, to rise in China. He is closed only to those countries, but these are some encouraging signals. I would refer to another short thing that has nothing to do with air traffic, which refers to the town of Kragujevac. You know, I suppose all the other MPs, how much the President of the Republic cares about raising investments in Kragujevac. And when we made an agreement with our Chinese partners about wastewater treatment plants and the sewerage network, he insisted that Kragujevac be number one and we have the biggest investments, so three wastewater treatment plants and 338km of sewerage network, a total of 190 million dollars of investment in Kragujevac, on that basis alone. Also, the tours around Kragujevac, Batocina, Knic, Mrčaevci, and then the Moravski Corridor is his, or the President's initiative, president's, if I may say so freely, political order, of course, similar to the fast traffic of Lajkovac – Valjevo. Yesterday, the president visited that traffic station. Valjevo somehow stayed by the roads, past the Corridor. We noticed that he would remain isolated and start to shut down. The president insisted, many were against it. We know today that Valjevo, by building this fast traffic station, is becoming a small capital and will grow even stronger toward him and Osecina and Ljubovija, even Koceljeva and all those local parts. So it's not just building corridors to get people through this country, it's to connect the country. It's important to us. Kragujevac is certainly one of the key centres of our investments and be assured, according to the instructions of the President of the Republic, for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you will see it in the coming period. Once again, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4376	Thank you, Minister. Now it's George Komlensky's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4377	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia signed an agreement on the establishment of a common European aviation area as early as 2006. This Agreement, which is of paramount importance, signed in 2006, has ratified the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, and has become binding and effective for all 36 signatories of this Agreement in 2017. Today we have before us a proposal for a law confirming the decision of the Joint Committee of July 2019 replacing Annex 1. This agreement itself, and when it was made up and started the procedure for its signing was an extremely ambitious project, because this project and this agreement implies a free, single and secure sky in Europe. Serbia, of course, is part of Europe and it is good that it recognised it in time, as early as 2006, and joined this Agreement. Air traffic security, equating standards that greatly facilitate traffic operation, allow travellers who move and take off from Serbia to know that they are doing so in a completely safe way, that those who come to Serbia, to Serbian airports, too, and that no misunderstanding will occur because of different standards and when it comes to planes that just fly across the Republic of Serbia. Why is this all important? Well, the very importance of this agreement has proved to be in the last few years. The question arises that we did not approach the signing of this agreement in a timely manner, would we have the opportunity to conclude such an extremely good and favourable concession arrangement when it comes to "Nikola Tesla" airport. Someone will say it's a 25-year period, and that's the period for which this concession is concluded. However, projects in infrastructure and serious projects do not appear for one day, for one year, for one term, but are made by people who have a vision of the future, as well as how to ensure the functioning of any system, and in this case air traffic. The fact that Belgrade Airport is given in a concession will ensure that it is extremely modernised in the next period, it gets another runway, at least one more run-down track, hangars, parking, raising technology that secures the functioning of all airport systems, and thus we will have something that will be absolutely at that moment in the ranks of the state-of-the-art systems and monitor everything that is happening in other parts of Europe. This allows the funds received from there to shift these funds to other airports and is a clear goal for those who have had a good vision, which is the establishment of the Serbia Airport, where they become "Serbia Airports" as a limited liability company becomes an operator at Constantin Veliki airports in Nis, Morava in Kralje, at the airport in Prajani, and will soon become the main operator at Rosulje Airport and Ponikeva. Simply, it will practically prepare at this time an airport project that, at this point, may at this time, except for the airport in Nis, and do not have a full function, in the future time period, for what is the forecasting of how and how conditions are created for air traffic in the Republic of Serbia to function immaculately and for all parts of the Republic of Serbia to be properly covered. It cannot always be expected that something becomes profitable on the day that it is released, especially in such important projects, but it is necessary to create an opportunity as one basis and base for this future period, I hope that it will not last very 25 years, but will fully synchronise and become fully market-functional and significant for the Republic of Serbia. That's what we rightly expect for a reason. Why for a reason? Because the way Serbia's policy has been led here since 2012 clearly shows that everything is extremely serious, it all counts. If that weren't the attitude, the question is what kind of situation today would be "Er Serbia", in what situation today would be a passenger traffic in Serbia, given the consequences caused by the Kovida 19 pandemic. We are witnessing that the functioning of many powerful companies has been compromised, that they are in a much more invisible situation than "Er Serbia" on the one hand as an airline, on the other hand, airports in the Republic of Serbia as technical support and technical part of the infrastructure that provides the operation of air traffic. The significance of this agreement is quite clear. For this reason, there is no dilemma that we need him and that we will support him and adopt him. I would just like to remind you that the signatories of this agreement are the European Community and its Member States: the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, now Northern Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo. This on the day that it's been marked 22 years since the bombing began, the name of this mission sounds a little hypocritical. Of all that remains of Resolution 1244, it remained practically just a name. That those who, without UN consent, opposed to all the rules of international law before 22 criminally opposed Serbia, continued their policy 22 years ago, or, in fact, never interrupted it, also shows this quasi exercise they call "the defender of Europe 21". One of the largest NATO Pact and US military exercises is contrary to the laws of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to UN resolution 1244 takes place with the assistance of the KFOR mission in Kosovo and Metohija, and also as their associated members in this NATO exercise, the Cypriot terrorist UCK units that are now calling some security troops. We didn't expect much more from those who attacked Serbia, not to spread democracy, not to carry out any humanitarian missions, but to break through Serbia. When the whole Serbia failed to enslave, occupy and disintegrate, they were currently satisfied with temporarily placing a boot on the people's soul by occupying Kosovo and Metohija. They abused Charter 1244 and instead of peacekeeping troops there with changed uniforms are NATO troops and in every way and today try to do what they wanted to do in 1999, which is force us to give up Kosovo. When they set out for Serbia, they obviously did not study mentality or the history of the Serbian people. It's probably hard and complicated for them, because the history of the Serbian people is much longer than the history they have, let's say, the United States. These 250, 300 years of history, our founding fathers go through in two days and they know everything, and they obviously haven't learned anything about us, but there's time, they'll learn. In the history of the Serbian people, it has always been known that stability, patience, time and perseverance is the best ally when safeguarding freedom. We lasted 500 years under the Turks. These won't last as long as the Turks held out in the Republic of Serbia, they'll leave here alone. I don't agree with one attitude, which is that they can be forgiven, but they can't forget. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, murdered children, murdered soldiers, murdered civilians, destroyed economy and evil brought with them cannot be forgiven or forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4378	Thank you. Since I said so, Mr. Komlensky, let me just say that I quoted Patriarch Paul. He Christianly said that he could be forgiven. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not as Christian as I am, but in any case we have to cooperate with those who bombed us, but that doesn't mean we have to accuse ourselves, as our political opponents do, who say Serbia is on its own. No, Serbia was a victim of criminal aggression, illegal, with the goal of taking over our territory and disrupting territorial integrity, and that's the full truth about everything we have to stick to. Did you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4379	I apologize, but I have a short replica, since I am not baptized, with all due respect and respect for the late patriarch Paul, I can afford to say to myself that they should neither be forgiven nor forgotten, and that being co-operated must be another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4380	Thank you. I mean, we agree. If we could get them back, I'd be the happiest, but since it's not real, then we're moving on. (Marian Risticevic: Who says it's not real, time carries everything.) All right. Just one dyspression. In the series about Stefan Nemanja, his ordonance comes or I don't know what it was called at the time and says – the messenger Friedrich Barbarosa arrived, and Nemanja sits with two sons and shut up. This one says after two minutes, the great prince, the envoy of the great Friedrich Barbarossus has arrived to wait, and he says, "Let him wait." Can he come in? He can't come in, he can't wait. Everyone looks at him, it takes five seconds and Stefan Nemanja says – I'd be the luckiest person in the world if I could say it like that. So let's move on. We move to the order of MPs according to the application for a word, after we have exhausted, no one from the heads or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups is answering. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. As you know, it takes till 4:00 a.m. to say that in case of need we could continue after 6:00 p.m. Of course, there will be a break, as always, from 14:00 to 15.00 hours. We are now going to order the MPs to report for the word. The word has the People's MP Samir Tandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4381	Dear President of the National Assembly, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected ministers with our associates, we are facing today's proposal for a law establishing a common aviation area. The Justice and Reconciliation Party and our parliamentary group will support this law and we as the strongest Bosniak party in Serbia. I'd like to use the minister's presence to give him a few questions. First, commendation to the ministry. I see they're very active. Also, I would like to remind you that in progress, said counterpart Mrkonjic, during the rebuilding of the country and one bridge, counterpart Mrkonjic then restored as minister or leader of the team in Prijepolje, which makes the citizens of Prepolje very grateful. It's still being used today. I'd like to ask you a few questions, Minister. I'm interested, citizens and citizens of the Prepolje municipality, Pryboy and Nova Varosh, that part of Sandzak... We certainly give full support to the construction, the continued construction of the highway, and that is something that will economically trigger that part of our country. We're interested in the route of access traffic -- is that envisaged, how will these municipalities be involved on the highway, whether towards Sjenica and which route is that, is it towards Kotroman, is it towards the White Field? Also, I'd like to ask you to take advantage of your authority and partnerly solve the problem of local roads. Local budgets are very small. These are devastated, poor municipalities, and we need support from the central level. So, by the ministry, let's see some meeting with you, with representatives of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", that we have some donations annually to resolve. It's really a burning problem. What I also want to point out is that the railway stations in Prepolje and Priboj are in very poor shape, the buildings themselves, to see what we can do here and whether we have room in the budget and in your plan. If not, let's see something through the rebalancing, like building a railroad to New Market. I would like to point out, since we as a group are scarce in time, that the last assembly of parliament has formed a Commission for Research as a consequence of NATO bombing. I'd like this commission and this council to introduce us to the results of our work. I want to point out that we have a marked increase in the number of malignancies in the state of Serbia. The cancer takes 20,000 lives a year, 36,000 have new cases, 12 by number of patients, and 2 by mortality. That's one huge problem. I'm talking because today is the day when the bombing started and these are some of the consequences that all citizens feel, regardless of religion and nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4382	Thank you. The word has Minister Tomislav Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4383	Dear Mr. Tandir, thank you for these interesting questions. You certainly know that our position is to try to cover investments in the local travel network from Novi Pazar, Presevo to Subotica and try to separate proportionate resources for all local self-governments. Of course, it's not easy after decades of devastation, after decades of deserting certain parts, of course, it's often seen right in the parts of the community that you mentioned. We were almost on the main road to Novi Pazar-Tutin, which was completely devastated. I would remind you, I would remind the citizens first of all of New Pazar and Tutin at this point that we are working seriously on that direction which is crucial to the citizens of Tutina, of course, who are related to the New Market. As for the project Požega-Boljare, the project is still projecting. We still work very carefully on it we have a lot of big ones, not the right word of the problem, but the challenges in which we approach it so that all citizens of western Serbia can benefit from it. You know that our strategic direction is first to connect with Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because with Bosnia and Herzegovina even from two directions, from Kuzmin, Sremski Rač, then Bijeljin and down to Tuzla and Sarajevo and the second from Požega through Užic to Kotoman. So we want to integrate our not only country, but region, because Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro are strategically important countries for us, our people live here, there is our strongest economic exchange and of course we think very carefully about it. As far as road connections are concerned, we will take care of it, of course we will want for municipalities that are very important, above all Prepolje, Nova Varoš, Priboj, from the other point of view Ivanica, Arilla, Sjenica, so we do this first of all because of them. They're the target of that highway. If we don't meet them, who else do we do it for? So be assured, keep in mind, keep in mind that we will make sure that all investments are open and intended primarily in this case for people in these local self-governments and that we will invest and we are already investing and you know that, above all, the policy of the President of the Republic, which is called "mini Schengen" is addressed to the full liberalisation of human trafficking in the region. We don't need any restrictions in communication with Montenegro and Bosnia, we don't need borders, in the administrative sense I'm talking to the border, because it's completely abnormal if between France, in Germany you can cross that you don't know where the border is, that we must now, for example, when we go from Nova Varoshi to Visegrad we are crossing some border crossings. It's totally unnatural stuff or I don't know from the apple to Pliva, whatever. So, you know that our policy, or the policy of the President of the Republic, is to build infrastructure, connect regions, connect all local traffic and, of course, free economic space so that people can deal with business, invest to raise standards, to make progress, and so that we can all go forward together, that's what the EU is, that's what we just want and do on it. We try, I say again, to separate funds, to help local self-government, because I repeat, I don't know how aware the citizens are and how understanding they are. We as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the "Serbian Roads" are not in charge of local traffic, local self-government is responsible for this. We understand that they don't have the funds, that these budgets are very limited, especially those municipalities that don't have large factories, which have no basis to earn revenue. We're trying to help them, we're going to do it even more in the next period, but try to understand that sometimes it's not easy, it's too many of those municipalities, and our budget, as much as it grows, as much as we increase investment, it's still limited. I hope you're satisfied with the answer and thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4384	I thank Minister Momirović. The word is Samir Tandir, an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4385	Thank you to the Honorable Minister for the exhaustive answer. So, what's important, you have to understand that the MPs we're coming from the field we voted for you and we're on a joint mission that we have to solve all these open issues so that all the citizens and the citizens who live in that area stay alive, that our country doesn't remain empty or empty. What is very important, I want to point out once again, means the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway, the construction of the railway to Novi Pazar, is part of our agreement with the SNS, and I absolutely believe that we will do it all in the next period, but in order to say that you have a lot of obligations, but my obligation is primarily to represent citizens, those who chose me, citizens and citizens of Prepolje and Sandzak, and that is why I think we should discuss these issues more often. And yes, these municipalities are devastated, undeveloped, asphalt road is our only chance to keep these people in the country, and only then to talk about the return of young people to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4386	Thank you. After minor changes, yes, the word has been made by the MP Mr Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4387	The President-in-Office, Honored Ministers with Associates, Dear Members of the People's Parliaments, is before us today the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Decision 1/2019 of the ESA of the Joint Committee of 2019 replacing Annex 1 to the multilateral Agreement between the European Community and its members. The agreement aims to establish a common European aviation area by applying the basic principles of the European Community, the EU in the field of civil aviation. Our country, which is still part of this agreement in 2009, and also part of the Single European Sky, belongs to the Associated Parties. These objectives include free market access, freedom of establishment of enterprises, equal conditions of competition, air space management, common rules in the areas of aviation and safety, aviation security and security. All these objectives are defined through Annex 1 to the Agreement. It was last done in 2009. Meanwhile, many regulations have been amended to make a whole new one, so Annex making a new decision must be updated. The newer regulations are divided into two groups. One concerns direct civil aviation, such as air safety and safety rules in air traffic, and the other makes up rules that are applied indirectly and concern the social aspect in the field of work security, traffic insurance, accident research, as well as in tourist arrangements. The ESA Agreement works so that they recognise our country as part of the European common space only if we fully comply with all the regulations and all the conditions of the European Community. The Republic of Serbia applies all the rules and our legislation is fully in line with the European rules, so there are all the conditions that we have no problem accessing this decision to amend and supplement, i.e. annexing the Agreement. We have two organisations dealing with the safety of air traffic and the provision of air space services. The Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia is a public agency that has been performing the tasks entrusted to it by the Air Traffic Act. This Directorate adopts regulations, conducts disputes and records, participates in the work of aircraft organisations, co-operates with competent authorities and other countries. The directorate is a national surveillance body in air navigation and all activities of the Directorate are focused on the most reliable, efficient development of the Air Safety System. The control of Serbia-Montenegro's flight is SMATSA, the State Agency for the provision of air traffic control services in Serbia-Montenegro's airspace and one part of BiH along the border with the Republic of Serbia. SMATSA plays a major role in increasing safety, efficiency and economics in air traffic in line with the highest standards and recommended practice. According to the Eurocontrol assessment, the European Air Safety Agency, SMATSA is taking a high place at the level of security in the competition of 50 operators. Today, SMATSA is a synonym of a successful, modern and respectable service provider in air navigation in Pan-European space. The air industry is one of the biggest losers of the current crisis caused by the pandemic and this is a major blow to this branch of the economy. It'll probably take a lot of time for the whole industry to get back to the level before the crisis. Last year, according to some estimates, there were 65% fewer flights than in the year before the crisis, and at the same time GDP in the eurozone was less by 7.5%. As things stand, it's hard to predict at this point how air traffic is going to take place these years and years to come. Our company "Er Serbia" is also in a very difficult situation. "Er Serbia" currently operates at about 40% of capacity compared to the year before the pandemic. How difficult the situation is and the fact that "Er Serbia" for the upcoming summer season, which starts on March 28th, in the next day, has removed 11 additional lines from its destination network. What is most important is that the state has made it clear that "Er Serbia" is of national importance and that there will certainly be ways to help, as has been done so far. So, a company that brings a lot of money and is in charge of a large inflow of tourists, there is simply a great interest in the state to preserve and to overcome this difficult situation as best possible. There are various scenarios of getting out of this situation, depending on the duration of the crisis and the various limitations and coordinated approach at the level of the entire European Union. By passing this law, our obligation will be fulfilled and conditions will be created for the full harmonisation of our legislation with the contents of Annex. That is why the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support the bill in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4388	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4389	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, respected colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, I have somehow had a dilemma about starting today's discussion. An important topic, however, is an important date. March 20th, the start of Serbia's bombing, something we will remember as Serbia's biggest scar, at the time the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It seems to me that even then and today, then in one fear frightened for their children, afraid of what was unknown to us, afraid of how ruthless this "merciful angel" will actually be, we quickly saw that mercy is enormous, and only a name is merciful. In that silence and in that fear we have always heard, at least we in the southern Serbian province, just the bells of the monastery, seeking protection from God, believing those boys the minister talked about and thanking you for that and we were right when we trusted them not to let anyone landly enter the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The southern Serbian province was not the only one to be hit, the whole of Serbia was bleeding for 78 days. I fully agree that we should talk to all those who unfortunately bombed us back then, but I still think they should never be forgiven. We can't teach kids to hate them, but we have to remind them of what happened, because today I don't think they should believe them. Their interests have always been above all else, even beyond our lives. For them, our lives were completely irrelevant. For them, little Milica Rakic was just a number, only statistics, and for us a lost life or who knows how many lives lost, because today she could be a mother. It's a hard story, I don't want to suffer, but I want to go to a high school and I'm sure I won't be the only one, a reminder of today. Let's remember today, 22 years have passed, fear is the same. Today, we have young people in Parliament benches who were literally children at the time. They're witnesses of how scared it was. They know how they woke up and how they managed to fall asleep when they heard that siren that meant they had to escape to some shelter. These were some basements that may not have been fully equipped, not certain because none of us expected that we would be accounting in this way, or that someone would deal with us. And what's most important is that a 22-year-old distance showed that whatever was their excuse at the moment was a lie. The excuse was Slobodan Milosevic. The excuse was the wrong policy. Twenty-two years later, we put up with the same pressure. Twenty-two years later, we're being kidnapped. We're being blackmailed. They have a different approach when it comes to us and others. For irony to be complete, this is when I talk about scared children I'm not just talking about children of Serbian nationality. Children were equally afraid in Subotica, Hungarian nationality, Belgrade, Vranj, Bujanovac, Pristina, Novi Pazar. All the children were in fear and not all of them were Serbian children. Their fault was living in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I hope and firmly believe that we will never get into this situation again. I'll finish what I really have to say, rest all the victims who put theirs into this today and all ours tomorrow. That's why we owe them the obligation to bring them up. Dear colleagues, we today couldn't imagine the world without air traffic, especially in the 21st century. The need for the mobility of the population is increasing, and today it is air traffic that connects the whole world in the fastest possible way. Since World War II, if we were to take an analytical look at air traffic, the importance of increasing and becoming a dominant vision of international passenger transport, allowing fast transport of goods and passengers across continents and oceans to large distances that were once insurmountable, and not before we established air traffic and distances, they crossed the waterways across ocean ships, and it lasted several months. In the old days, the truth is, the plane ride was also prestigious and was a privilege for the rich. The flight costs were extremely high, and the plane's capacity was low. Passengers are getting bigger today, planes are getting bigger, more and more flights, more and more destinations are connected. The 2016 data suggests that that year there were twice as many flights around the world compared to just 10 years earlier. One of the largest and busiest airports in Europe and the world is London's Heathrow, through which about 80 million passengers pass annually. Serbia is not lagging behind. It has long experience in air traffic under the circumstances that the first civil aviation company was founded far back in 1927 and was still a respectable company at European level. There's this data we could be dealing with, but this time is going by fast. I will leave a little time for my colleagues too, so I will shorten my discussion and say that Serbia as an EU candidate has taken over the obligations defined in Chapter 14, that is transport policy and applies to all forms of transport, including air traffic. This chapter is unfortunately not open yet, but we hope it will quickly. The second level of our international involvement is that we are an associated country which is a signator of a multilateral agreement signed by the EU with its members and with another number of countries, including us. This agreement was ratified with Annex 1 back in 2009 and has since been working to bring our air traffic standards into line with EU standards. How sensitive and sensitive the area of air traffic is to natural and other disorders confirms the pandemic of the coronary virus that caused the unprecedented crisis and largely altered the world that is working completely different today. Air traffic is one of the most hit branches globally, I would say, with this crisis and the pandemic and due to the reduced number of traffic over the past year, the consequences of each country's business and economy are catastrophic and I'm afraid we'll just see it in the future. However, this crisis cannot and must not slow down the creation of new and more favourable conditions and adaptation of the transport system for new conditions to which we will be obliged to adapt. This implies further development of transport services and modernisation of transport. However, I will do it for a period and I have the right to do it, engineer Milutin Mrkonjic helped me with his opening exhibition, because when he is sitting in the hall, then it is always difficult for me to talk about the infrastructure whether it is a road or an air infrastructure, and in the hall, from a moment on, my colleague Bora Kovacevic, we worked together from 2010 to 2014, 2015 on "Nikola Tesla" airport, for my great pleasure. I will refer to this period, first of all because "Nikola Tesla" Airport, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, I think at that time was a minister, invested in renovating equipment and infrastructure, and it proved quite visionary. Completely expanded and renovated waiting rooms in the Finger hallway, as well as waiting rooms from A1 and A6, have been expanded by adding four new open parking positions, two waiting rooms for passengers boarding remote parking positions have been built, a roll track has been reconstructed, 11 air parking devices have been installed and six new aircraft bridges have been purchased from China. I'm going to stop at six new air bridges, for a simple reason, because "Nikola Tesla" Airport is at the moment of its old air bridges, we're talking about moving air bridges that were the most modern in 2013 when we got them. We donated the old air bridges to Constantin the Great Airport and thus helped to make another one of our airports grow slightly into a safe airport, not only of the Western Balkans, since "Nikola Tesla" Airport and today, I am sure of the highest quality airport, primarily because of the position, and then because of the conditions it provides, because this progressive policy has continued until today. Absolutely nothing stopped, even I think that ten days ago we have a notice that it began with the construction of a new tower at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, which is very important, because for Europe, "Nikola Tesla" could, and I am convinced that it will become one main hub when it comes to intercontinental flights. What is also recorded in 2014 is the historic growth of passengers, which in November of that year came to four million, which meant that the airport "Nikola Tesla" must continue to develop, in 2017, I think we also recorded a growth in the number of passengers of over five million, and that in 2019 we also recorded a record of six million. Unfortunately, in 2020, it stopped this number of passengers, but I am sure that when humanity comes out of this overall crisis with the coronary virus, that the "Nikola Tesla" Airport will quickly exceed this six-million-dollar figure and reach that much-wanted figure of ten million passengers. I said all of this because I think it is very important to commit ourselves to air traffic, that Annex II - compliance with new EU regulations and standards, which have been amended since the adoption of Annex I. The largest number of amended regulations refer to areas directly related to civil aviation, primarily air safety, safety and air traffic management, but also to the protection of a non-small environment. In view of this, an unequivocally parliamentary SPS group will support the ratification of the joint committee's decision of 31 July 2019, replacing Annex I of the multilateral agreement between the EC and its Member States and a group of European states, including Serbia. Serbia sees in this its chances that it further standardises its air traffic services and uses all the benefits of the single European sky. I wasn't talking about our airline, not because I think it's less important, not because there's nothing to say, but because I have a time limit. You certainly inherited one of the ministers, I'd say, a healthy system. Your energy is unequivocally evident that you will improve that. I wish you luck from the heart. I thank you for another detail that came into my eyes, which is the fact that you answer every MP in the way you stand up. Thank you. That level of respect is always nice to experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4390	I thank the People's MP, Snezani Paunovic. The word has a folk MP, Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4391	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, I must honor, in my personal name, all the victims of NATO's aggression against our country and express compassion with their families. There is almost no city in Serbia that has not been targeted by NATO forces at least several times during the 11 weeks of the attack. The bombing destroyed and damaged 25,000 residential buildings, disabled 470 km of roads, 595 km of railways, damaged 14 airports, 19 hospitals, 20 homes of health, 18 kindergartens, 69 schools, 176 monuments of culture and 44 bridges, while 38 were destroyed. We must never forget this day, because this day of memory of all the victims during the aggression, and 78 days at least 2,500 civilians, 79 children and 1,000 soldiers were injured, injured more than 12,500 people. Praise them and thank you. Today, we have before us a bill to confirm a decision replacing Annex I of a multilateral agreement between the European Community and its member states of the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the Mission of the UN provisional administration in Kosovo on the establishment of a common European aviation area, the application of the EU basic principles in the field of civil aviation in the associated sides of the Agreement, including the Republic of Serbia. The basic objectives and principles include free market access, freedom of establishment of businesses, equal conditions of competition, but they are not only economic reasons, but perhaps the most important thing is that air traffic takes place safely and safely. It is important that all passengers know that our country applies the highest air standards and that they can safely and safely fly to Serbia, but also fly safely over our country. It is also equally important to apply environmental rules that are also foreseen by this agreement. The agreement aims to extend the common European aviation market to the Western Balkans region and before formal EU accession, with around 500 million citizens benefiting from the expansion of the common market to the Western Balkans. With us and as we see a major shift in the area of air traffic, I will make one comparison by looking at 2019, or the pre-coronal period of the virus compared to 2013. At the airport "Nikola Tesla" Belgrade increased the number of passengers by as much as 74%, at the end of 2013, the total number of passengers was 3.543.94, while the number in 2019 was 6.158.897 passengers. Also, the total quantity of goods transported at this airport, observed for the same period, increased by more than 140% When watching Konstantin Veli airport in Nis, the number of passengers in 2013 was 21.700, while in 2019 the number increased by more than 20 times and was 419.683 passengers, while the total quantity of goods transported increased by as much as 170%, while the number of flights in the observed period increased by 47%. When compared to the total revenues in the 2013 air traffic system with 2019, an increase of nearly 86.1% is obtained from 40.54 billion dinars to 75.46 billion dinars, which is huge growth and progress. The bill under discussion today confirms the readiness of the Republic of Serbia to continue to apply the most European standards in the field of civil aviation by making their application formally mandatory in our country. Serbia is about the law and their alignment with EU recommendations among the best, but we are also among the best in terms of economic growth, because here we are the second year in a row first in Europe. In addition, we are among the best, if not the best, when it comes to the country's response to the pandemic that has affected the whole world, including our country, and here we are in front of the great world forces only thanks to President Alexander Vukic's wise and responsible policy. Serbia in every step and in every sense goes into step with time and we see it in the daily struggle for the health of people who are the absolute priority today. Our president takes care exclusively of citizens' health and the preservation of the health system, not making it a political issue. Serbia is very successful in implementing the vaccination plan and in our country not only we have enough vaccines for all the citizens reported, but citizens can choose between the four vaccines available to them. For a long time, we have been at the very top of the number of vaccines in Europe and in the world, and this way I want to appeal to all citizens again to immunize so that we can start living normally in the next period. We have a good example of Israel, which thanks to a successful vaccination involving 60% of the citizens and even 90% of the students won. The hospital in Tel Aviv closed down the last active Kovid ward and since 7 March, life has been lifted and back to normal. It's an example that gives us hope and what we all strive for. In addition to vaccination, the state has singled out the money and bought a medicine given to the risk group, which is thanks to which if the first ten days of the disease resulting from the cure is 90%. In every way, this government puts forth efforts and fights for every life. This way, I would also like to express my gratitude, given that Pirot is one of the 20 places that received 20 of the most modernly equipped sanitary vehicles thanks to the EU, which is extremely important for the lives of our people. What will be Serbia's greatest success is that we will have two vaccine factories and the fact that 30 and 40 million vaccines will be produced annually, which, as we can see, represents life and survival. I am sure that Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, will draw up a plan and achieve, as until now, even though many have been skeptical, so they have convinced themselves of the progress, and that we will soon build a completely new factory for the production of vaccines, while we will have the other one on "Torlaku". Serbia will not only pack vaccines, but also produce fluid in less than a year. Our year will be to protect everyone needed, if the third dose is given, about 15 million, and 25 million will be provided for the region. To the surrounding countries, we have already helped our neighbours, as our president also delivered to the BiH presidency, Milorad Dodik, medical equipment and respirators last night, and our assistance will not be left in the next period. Serbia will survive the economic crisis more easily than 90% of other countries, only important to implement the process of immunisation, to preserve people's lives and health. Serbia is no longer weak, Serbia is headed by Alexander Vukic, a strong and respected country in the world that cares for its people, its security and its well-being. This way, dear Minister, I want to give you full support for the implementation of all the projects across Serbia that you are visiting together with the president these days, because we know that Serbia today is a major construction site and that even seven highways and fast traffic will be built by the end of the year. In the day of voting, together with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – I will support this bill for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4392	I thank the People's MP, Olija Petrovic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Your task force has three minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4393	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. Every unionist law is normal to get the support of everyone who thinks about the future of this country and society, especially the obligation of all of us who think about leaving our children, our future generations, with hope for prosperity and the future. On the other hand, as a MP already in my second term, I want to express one feeling that I may have experienced for the first time today, that is, in the previous years, in the previous term, we Sandzak MPs were mostly talking about the devastated roads, the poor infrastructure, that decades have been destroyed, destroyed everything that was and should have been the basis of healing, primarily economic recovery of that area. Here, today we have experienced that I am the minister obviously in my recent journey through Sandzak, Tutin, the Sjenica says the same thing, that what must have been preserved has really been destroyed in order to leave behind for generations something that I can rely on in building my future. This gives hope that, in the future, a lot will be invested and that a constant and concrete commitment by the Government and all levers of government is necessary to bring this infrastructure, not only by road, but also by energy and every other, in a decent state, so that we can count on us to start and develop these areas. That is why it is very important to build highways, to build railways, not only from Raška to Novi Pazar, but through all these cities that have been unjustly left without railway infrastructure, as well as all other types of traffic access roads, and of course, above all, we are also thinking about the airport. In this regard, given this event that we are remembering today, which is 22 years old, it is indeed high time that we were dealt with as a state with certain consequences of what happened 22 years ago. I'm talking first of all about the NATO bombings we still have, especially around the Sjenica area at Dubnica Airport, which are still not removed, which continue to threaten the environment, threatened, are a constant threat to humans, to the stock fund. People who want to build there can't build, and that's why this is an invitation to the authorities to do what is urgent after 22 years, whatever is necessary to clear this area of Sjenica, but also the entire Serbian state of all other NATO bombs in order to keep our children safe from all these unexploded funds in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4394	Thank you. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4395	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to say that it is very good that after 22 years and after the bombing of Serbia, we all speak together in the Republic Parliament without exception, because that is the truth that we owe to the citizens of Serbia first. In this way we show and confirm one responsible and serious attitude towards citizens when it comes to this subject and when it comes to this issue. A little while ago, someone said that we should talk about facts and present concrete facts. We fully agree. Yes, we need to talk about facts and we need to make it plain and clear that bombing is a crime committed to our people. This should be spoken openly, clearly and publicly, as it is a must for all of us to protect the interests of our country of Serbia. Bombing is a consequence, actually, it's our legitimate right to say, false charges of genocide and ethnic cleansing. That's what it was said then. But we also believe that it is actually the peak of a constant pressure on Serbia since the early 1990s. In Croatia, for example, 380 thousand Serbs lived in 1990. How many are there today? There were 150,000 Serbs living in Sarajevo. How many are there today? In Pristina, 40,000. How many are there today? The question arises, where did Serbia perform ethnic cleansing and genocide? An ethnic cleansing has been carried out over Serbs, and that is something we need to talk about, to spread the truth about our people first of all. Serbia has never, looking back, looking back at history, counted its victims. Neither when it comes to World War I nor World War II, nor when it comes to the Balkan War. Somehow, we always made sure that we didn't hurt our national feelings and that we didn't hurt other people's national emotions. Have others treated Serbia in such a responsible and serious way? Unfortunately not. They always talked about certain numbers, certain numbers, often, not often, but always manipulated. That's why I think it's very important to remember today the victims, especially today, when, through the violation of the international legal order, it is supported to make one quasi state on the blood of some others. We believe there are several key messages to be announced today. One, I already told you, the truth. We owe this truth, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia. The second key message is not to forget. The third key message is never to be repeated again. NATO bombing is often justly called what was then said by the dictatorship of people who then led Serbia and were in power. I ask a question, and what happened in 2000? Why was Serbia punished then? Then why continue pressure on Serbia? Is Serb persecution continued in Kosovo and Metohija? Are you a separate Montenegro? Is Kosovo and Metohija unilaterally recognised? So, 22 years after the bombing, we had absolutely identical pressures when it comes to Kosovo and when it comes to Republika Srpska. So a unilateral recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence for us is just a continuation of bombing and pressure on Serbia, a continuation of NATO bombing since 1999. Mr. Minister, I'm not going to talk much about the agreement, I'm going to leave it to a younger colleague, given the time the parliamentary group has. Of course, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in the voting day will support this agreement, above all, because of the goals that are to be achieved by the realization of this agreement, but I want to make, at the very end, a crackdown on what you said in the opening statement, and what my obligation is as a patriot's restaurant, first of all, as a man who comes from Valjevo. You said you were traveling by train and you were talking to a lady who said she was traveling from Valjev to work in Belgrade. I hope so, and I am fully convinced, after yesterday's visit to the president and visiting you again, I commended you and last time you visited the tour, that this will never happen again, but that the citizens of Valjev will be able to live and work from their work for their wages, honest work in their city. So we have here, you mentioned, we were fortunate to learn something that is the essence of everything, we have Milutin Mrkonjic, the great builder, who taught us that there is no economic without infrastructure development. It is a clear view of the President of the Republic, and I am glad that it is a clear position both of the Government and of you as Minister and that you show that attitude by works, not words, by visiting construction sites in Serbia. It is your job and you have full support and praise for it. So, when it comes to Valjev, fast traffic from Iverko to Likovec, which Valjevo will connect to Milos Veli's highway. That Valjevo, not only Valjevo, but the whole part does not remain a appendix, the West Serbia's appendix does not remain, so it connects to Milos the Great highway, I'm talking about the importance. The contract provides for the traffic station to be completed by December 2023. These works will be, as the president announced during yesterday, to the great satisfaction of the Valjevacs, a year earlier. This area will also be revived by building road infrastructure and the Valjev people will no longer move to Belgrade, as I said. The works that started at the end of June last year will cost 150m euros. From the introduction of the Orlovace central gas pipeline to Valjev, worth 29m euros, then the supply of Valjev villages with gas, worth 14.3m euros, and when the gasification for the industrial zone is added, this comes to a total of 45m euros, a large and serious investment for Valjevo, which is a serious and responsible relationship both between the president and the government of the Republic of Serbia towards the city of Valjevo and, of course, the completion of the general hospital in Valjevo, worth more than 12m euros. What is essential, and what I said at the outset, is expected in 20 days to sign the first agreement to build a factory in Valjevo, an important German company, where the average salary will be over 1000 euros, according to the president. Mr. Minister, I am fully convinced that you will see Valjevci as they come to Belgrade, and when it comes to work, from the moment this is realised, and I am fully convinced that they will, you will see them more in Valjev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4396	I thank the People's Messenger, Djordjo Milicevic. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4397	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable ministers with their associates, today, as we know, is the most painful day in Serbia's recent history. On March 24th, we remember our innocent civilians, the military, the police, who were killed that year and who were placed under NATO bombs. They put a whole nation under NATO bombs because they wanted to take away what we didn't give them back then, and we're not going to give them part of our territory. It is certain that we always remember two and a half thousand dead people, among whom, what hurts the most, is 79 children. Mala Milica Rakic would be 25 today, if NATO villains hadn't killed her macho during NATO aggression on our country. I do have a duty, and you said so before, as well as the MPs and ministers, but I would say to all the people who do any work, that we really appreciate that blood spilled for the freedom that we have today. It's not a small victim. Rarely, the people can say, practically, in Europe since World War II, no bomb has been dropped on any European people except the Serb people. That's why we have a great responsibility and responsibility to these people, according to these victims, to talk about them with great pie today. Because no one in the international community is going to express their condolences to us today or say they're sorry for what happened. They didn't do it on February 17th, they won't do it on August 5th, they'll never do it when it's hard for us and when our people mourn their loved ones. So we don't have anyone closer than ourselves, and we need to be aware of that. As for today's agenda, we are talking about an important agreement that will put the entire Western Balkans practically under European airspace. This is certainly an important agreement, because Eurointegration is expanding to the entire Western Balkans and in what someone said earlier, the air force. It is really important that the integration of the Western Balkans be overall, comprehensive, that we progress together in all these processes. When we talk about our country, what our country has done specifically in this area, the Ministry can really praise the great results, we can talk about the exact facts, mathematically expressed, that from 2013 to today we have really made a huge shift when it comes to the complete development of our aviation industry. Generally, when we look at how many passengers were transported during that period, it is enough to really understand that Serbia is investing much more today than it was before. Today we can certainly boast that the number of passengers at Nikola Tesla airport was only three and a half million passengers in 2013, and today there are six million and 158,000. Indeed, these are the exact data, to see that 50% of the passengers have been increased. When we talk, too, about Konstantin Veli airport in Nis, there are even more pronounced data, all 21,000 passengers were transported in 2013, and during 2019, this is some parameter we take in view of the pre-crisis period, as many as 419,683 passengers were transported from Konstantin Veli airport to Nis. In fact, it says how important it was to train that airport. All those who criticized us that we should not invest in that airport, that we should not put it under a republican company, show how ignorant they are, show how necessary it was for the airport to be able in such a way and to invest so much money to have such good results in Nis today. There is also the airport Morava, Prajani and certainly what is particularly important to me, which you mentioned earlier, is the fact that the investment of huge money is planned at Ponikva airport in Užica, so that it can be operated as soon as possible for commercial flights. We also had an announcement the other day by Mr. Zdravkovic, that the Serbian government will invest 300 million dinars at the Poniqa airport in Uzic during the following year. Actually, it's the breadth of the housewives of our entire region. I come from the Zlatibor County and I must commend your work, your pledge. And you're often there in our region, so I'm glad you really invest in that region. So, in addition to getting the highway to Požega, to St. Nicholas, the portion continues, from what we've heard, immediately continues practically. I'd like to appeal to you not to wait with any delay, but to take that part to Kotroman immediately. Indeed, the entire Zlatibor County wants that highway to come, to connect our district with Belgrade. It's been waiting 70 years, nothing's been done in that area. I would certainly like to commend the revitalisation of the main road in which 12m euros were invested, and this is indeed a completely different region today compared to what it was before 2012. I'd ask you to say firsthand how long it takes to finally denominate them? That's what our people upstairs want to hear. What is that, indicative, is it two or three years? We hear that by 2025 20m euros will be invested and it would really be very important for all our farmers who could charter flights, generally, and tourists to bring, and that our agricultural producers have a better placement on European markets. Generally, as far as the airport is concerned, it's really invested a lot. Our Air Serbia airline is our country's pride. We had a chance to see how tragically that story with the national airline went down in Montenegro. That's not the case with us. We've had enough hearing to put on one good concession and secure our airport, or airline for the next period. I think it will certainly be one of the best European companies if this concession is respected. We have already received 501m once compensation for the concession, and in the next 25 years, a total of 732m euros are planned to invest in our airline. It's really an important piece of information, that citizens know how important it is for us to have the airline on stable feet, so that the situation doesn't happen like with some neighbouring airlines that went bankrupt, which have been shut down. Even though the crown has really affected a lot of air traffic everywhere in the world, and with us, it feels like a drastic downturn in the number of passengers. I say again, we have a stable concession, we have a 25-year contract, which will have to be respected. So 732 million euros. Our country will valorize this airline, which must continue to develop in the way it has developed so far. The Corona has really affected, once again I say, the whole world has been completely disturbed, as far as air transport is concerned and the general number of passengers, nowhere travels, and it really feels in these times. Once again, the Serbian government is there, especially President Aleksandar Vukic, and we must thank them for such good results when it comes to crisis management. Today we have, here, three other minimum wagers are now paid, it's really important for all of our people, and generally especially for the workers in tourism who get the full minimumer and that's what our citizens today and how the prices, five minimumers we got over the last year and really the economy is standing on stable feet, the health system has also managed to resist that impact crisis. We hope that we will continue to have a high rate of vaccination, we are others in Europe still, so we generally hope that this year will be the year when we really manage to get out of this crisis completely. What I particularly wanted to point out when it comes to airports, it is a great honor and pleasure to say that Serbia today has the strength, has enough financial opportunities to help the airport in the most beautiful Serbian city, which is the town of Trebinje. As President Vukic said, 50m euros are being allocated to this budget precisely for 2021 and we will invest in Trebinje Airport, which will also be revitalised and we will really give one impulse for our people to remain living in this century Serbian space and that is what is truly necessary, that people know that when we have a strong state, when we have stable finances, when we have stable Serbia, then we can help our people in the environment. I say once again, it is very important that we all breathe as one organism, because, as I say, today is a difficult day for the Serbian people. On the 24th of March, we remember every year all the people who were killed under NATO bombs and, I say, there won't come any apology, no sympathy, no now, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're rebuilding schools today, and roads, and kindergartens and all those infrastructure facilities that were devastated 22 years ago, that were destroyed. To remind the citizens, 100 billion euros has been damaged. It is rare that people could rise up as Serbia rose after 2012, with some serious measures that have been taken and today we have a real opportunity to say that we are also the first economy in Europe at the growth rate and that in the coming period we will also try to maintain such high growth. I say once again, we have to take care of ourselves, because nobody else will obviously care about us unless we really value ourselves in the right way, and unless we invest in our country as it seems today. Once again, I thank you and we will vote for this agreement in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4398	The word has Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4399	Dear Mr. Dabic, thank you for your truly quality exposure. I am convinced that citizens of western Serbia can be proud of how you represent their interests. As for the Ponika Airport, I would first like to look back on it, and I will try to be really brief. We, in these circumstances that are truly amazing, don't want to deal with adventure and to design what investment will be like when we don't even know what aviation will look like when this serious crisis is over. But what we want is to create preconditions to quickly adapt to new circumstances that will certainly open up, as I was saying, this isn't the end of air traffic, this isn't the end of the airline industry, it's going to come out of this, and eventually it's going to be stronger than it was before. We've singled out no investments, we're doing project documentation for the airport building, we're building an airport, we've been involved in a project, because I don't know if you know, the land around the airport is owned by an airport, it's more than 500 hectares. We have involved "Yugoimport-SDPR" so that they can take over 80 hectares to invest to get a small industrial zone. We are ready to invest further, to build an industrial zone, to interest investors to appear here. It is not our goal to build an airport where no one will gravitate, but to involve all actors in that part of Western Serbia. Also, we're going into reconstruction of the road to the Ponikva Airport. The Ponikve airport was one of the first-class military airports, which suffered terrible damage in this bombing that we have been talking about all day. We want to create, once again, important preconditions for that airport to adapt tomorrow and be operational in the conditions of what kind of air traffic it requires. Also, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to mention one more thing, and it refers to the town of Uzice that you mentioned. We have one pretty bad thing out there, and that's that the whole freight traffic, the buses are all going through downtown, next to the elementary school, next to the kindergarten. We have to build a bypass around Uzic in the next two years. We can't allow this situation in such a big city that the entire transport traffic is passing through the city center. We have, of course, a firm decision and we have the support of the President of the Republic to build in the next two years a tour around Užica, so that we can unload the city center for the citizens of Užica, that they can live comfortably, have an ecologically correct lifestyle and lifestyle, move heavy trucks out of the center of Užica, that our children who go to those schools first when they get out don't look at trucks and breathe that air. So, Užice in the coming period, as well as the whole of Serbia, will be in our focus and be confident that the real investments are still coming. Thanks again for the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4400	I thank the Minister. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Markovic. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is eight minutes and ten seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4401	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are talking about a multilateral agreement between the European Community and its member states and associated states, including the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning of my presentation, I will create a brief retrospective of the development of air traffic dating back to 1903, and some of the first commercial flights that have been established since 1919. The basic division of air traffic is for civil and military purposes. And with regard to the use of air traffic for military purposes, it is interesting that at the beginning of World War I, aircraft in all countries were mainly used for observation, reconnaissance and auxiliary tasks, and those planes had no weapons. Serbia welcomed this war with four planes and six pilots. Also, another fact by which we are first is that the first plane to be crashed in the history of world aviation has been shot down 99 years ago by Serbian soldier Radoje Ludovac over Kragujevac. The fastest development of the Air Force was achieved in World War II, when air power became dominant in achieving a comparative advantage over the enemy. When it comes to civil aviation, it developed after World War I, originally in Germany and America, first for the transport of mail, then passengers and goods. The first commercial flights in Europe were on the Paris – Brussels, London – Brussels and Paris – London. Today, in international air traffic, we have over a thousand airports, which play a role in establishing flights and receiving passengers and organising their services. Airports in Atlanta and Beijing, annual transport of over 100 million passengers, and that's what this industry actually says. Thanks to aviation and the development of air traffic, communication and transport of goods and passengers are greatly facilitated today, even in the most remote countries. International air traffic is taking place in an airspace, between two or more countries, and an agreement on the agenda today aims to establish a common European aviation area, applying the basic principles of the EU, in civil aviation and in associated countries, including Serbia. Three airports are used for regular international transport in Serbia, such as "Nikola Tesla", "Constantin Velika" and "Morava". The last two airports are part of the public company "Serbia Airports" and are in the process of joining the company several more airports, which would cover the entire territory of our country. Many wonder, does Serbia have enough passengers for all these airports? According to prominent professor Petar Mirovljevic, sold for studies at the Faculty of Traffic in Belgrade, our country has a great, geographical position and potential to develop hubs for the region of Southeast Europe and set up flights to the most significant intercontinental destinations. All arguments support the fact that we have an extremely high potential for the development of this kind of traffic. Ministers, you said and I think it is also in favour of the launch of preparatory work on the construction of a new control tower, at the airport "Nikola Tesla", and this is obviously one of the assumptions, i.e. the forecasting of a medium and long deadline, due to the technical limitations of the space, the need for this will arise in the coming period. The global crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus has slowed down this process and we can say freely, perhaps it has the most impact on the aviation industry. Some of the data, when it comes to airports in Serbia, say that in Belgrade and Nis, during the pandemic, the number of air traffic fell by more than 90%. In the first half of the previous year, the number of passengers, at Belgrade's airport, was down 62%, compared to the same period a year before, while the number of commercial flights decreased by 52%. In January and February, last year, the airport registered passenger growth, compared to the same period last year, and since March, the number has dropped by 60%, and since April there has been no more traffic. Air traffic today threatens a large number of factors, one of them is this natural one, which I told you about, and the other one is human. Here, first of all, I mean terrorism, which presents security challenges, risks and threats, and uses resources that are increasingly brutal, more bloody and more destructive. We are all well-known for the terrorist attack, which took place on September 11th, in America, in the United States, and since then, procedures and measures have increased dramatically, when it comes to security at airports themselves. Given the negotiations on EU accession, to which our country has committed access to the adoption of this law, it will also create formal assumptions for the hanuisation of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, with EU law. As one of the strategic goals and priorities, which is Serbia, it is full EU membership, the SPS parliamentary group will support the adoption of this agreement in the voting day. At the very end of my address, I would like to take the opportunity to say, as my distinguished colleague, Snezana Paunovic, said, some of the MPs today were children, one of those children, and I, when the bombing and aggression of NATO alliances started on March 24th, were on our country, then I was interrupted from schooling, that is, the first class I had yet to attend. What I'm trying to say is that all the hospitals that have been torn down, the schools that have been torn down, the objects that have been destroyed, over two thousand victims, are actually not the final figures. If we look at the fact that in 1990 there were tens of thousands of people suffering from disease, from carcinogenic diseases, and that 25 years later, or in 2015, that number was 40,000, then we can only figure out what the exchanges of what was thrown at us, 15 tons of poor uranium, which, by some estimates, would take 45 billion years to complete. It's so real, and that's how it's actually obvious to us that in the first two, that is, in World War I and World War II, we were on the side of the winner, on the side of the truth, on the side of justice, and we were fighting for the preservation of democracy. So what I agree with is that maybe as a believing people we can forgive, but we must never and can never forget what was done then, at least as long as there is a living Serbian people. So to end this address with words, let the Serb people live, let Serbia live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4402	I thank the People's MP, Ugljesi Markovic. Your group's time has been spent. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4403	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the bill we are discussing today confirms the readiness of the Republic of Serbia to continue to apply the most European standards in the field of civil aviation by making their application formally mandatory in our country as well. The standards are contained in the EU rules set out in Annex 1 to the multilateral agreement on the establishment of a common European aviation area, i.e. The ESA agreement, which formally confirms in the Republic of Serbia with the proposal for this law. The ESAA Agreement aims to extend the common European aviation market to the Western Balkans region as well. The Republic of Serbia signed an ESA agreement in 2006 and ratified it in 2009. It became binding on all 36 signatories on December 1st 2017. The basic objectives include free market access, freedom of establishment of businesses, equal conditions of competition and common rules in the areas of aviation safety, safety and air traffic management, social conditions and environmental protection. The agreement is an ambitious project because it is designed to make the Western Balkans region part of the common aviation market, the Union and before formal accession to the EU, and nearly 500 million citizens benefit from the expansion of the Western Balkans' common market. However, not only did economic reasons lead to the accession of the Republic of Serbia to this agreement. It's equally important, if not more important in the air force, that air traffic takes place safely and safely. It is important that all passengers be assured that they can safely and safely fly into Serbia and safely fly across the sky above our country, because our country applies the highest air standards. It is also important to ensure that environmental protection rules provided for in this Agreement are applied. These standards are constantly changing and improving, and by adopting this proposal, the National Assembly will allow the Air Directorate and other bodies responsible for the application of the ESAA agreement to preserve and improve the safe and safe conduct of air traffic in our country and the correct and timely application of all other obligations provided for in the agreement. The first step towards this goal is to confirm this bill. Meanwhile, there have been significant changes in EU regulations contained in Annex 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The largest number of amended regulations relate to areas directly related to civil aviation, i.e. air safety, aviation safety and air traffic management. The result of the work of the Ministry of Construction, Transport, Air Traffic Infrastructure is seen through traffic statistics for the period from 2013 to 2019. The increase in the number of passengers at "Nikola Tesla" Belgrade airport in the observed period is 74%, i.e. at the end of 2013, we had a number of passengers of about three and a half million while the number was over six million passengers in 2019, and the total amount of goods transported at this airport increased by more than 140% over the observed period. When watching Konstantin the Great Airport in Nis in 2013 there were some 22,000 passengers. In 2019 420,000 passengers, which represents an increase of more than 20 times. The total quantity of goods transported increased by 170 per cent. When observed in 2020, at the end of March 19, 2020, the number of passengers was on a steady rise, however, the occurrence of the coronal virus in the Republic of Serbia, as well as worldwide, led to a rapid decline in all traffic statistics since March 2020 and beyond. With this in relation to the International Airport and the Republic of Serbia, there is a drastic decline in the number of passengers. That is why I, as well as my fellow MPs, urge the citizens of Serbia to be vaccinated because it is a salvation for all of us. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the "Nikola Tesla" airport with VA SI Airports France and VA SI Airports Serbia concluded a Treaty on Concession in 201. For financing, development through construction and reconstruction, maintenance and infrastructure management of the "Nikola Tesla" airport in Belgrade and the performance of the airport operator at "Nikola Tesla" airport. The concession is allocated to public works and public services. The concession began in 2018 and will last for the next 25 years. The total one-off fee for the concession is 501m euros, while the annual concession fee for the total 25-year period will be 228m euros in nominal value. Investment plans for development, improvement, reconstruction will total 732m euros over the period of the concession. Air traffic has achieved the highest degree of harmonisation with European Union regulations through the Air Traffic Act, but I must, because today we all know what date it is, to mention that today is 22 years since the attack on our Serbia i.e. then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I can't help but remind the citizens of Serbia of the NATO and US criminal attack. Our sky wasn't as safe back then as it was today. Thanks to the president and Serbian Commander-in-chief Alexander Vukic. NATO launched air raids on military targets on 24 March 1999 to expand later air strikes to economic goals and civilian facilities. NATO's intervention was conducted without the approval of the SB, in attacks that lasted 78 days without interruption, heavy damaged infrastructure, business facilities, schools, churches, monasteries, monuments of culture, media houses. Let's never forget 2,300 air strikes, 1,150 fighter planes launched 420,000 missiles totaling 22,000 tons, 1,300 cruise missiles, 37,000 cluster bombs. So 19 NATO countries bombed Serbia because it did not accept capitulation. The damage estimates the SRJ had at the time, and today Serbia, ranging from 30 to 100 billion US dollars. The final number of lives lost is not officially in line. According to smaller estimates, about 1,300 souls were killed in the SRJ and 3,500 people were killed in higher numbers. At the same time, more than 12,000 people are estimated to have been injured. The attacks were suspended on June 10th after the signing of a military-technical agreement on the withdrawal of the military and police from the KIM. On the same day in SB, Resolution – 1244 was adopted, after which the SRJ retains its sovereignty over KIM. With the military and police in Serbia, more than 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians have escaped. Also, respected citizens of Serbia, I must remind you that in 2019, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Bosko Obradovic led an organised campaign against the marking of 20 years of NATO aggression and who knows by whom they have so embarrassed our history, our origin, our own people and our homeland. Gilasovo, Boskov and Jeremic's small group are nothing sacred and because of attempts to please anyone, at their failed gatherings, they are able to pronounce the worst fictions and spit on the marking of the greatest tragedy that has hit the Serbian people in recent history. Also, back then, Gilasova and Jeremic's perjanica, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, spat on all victims of criminal NATO aggression on our country, saying to mark 20 years of NATO bombing in Nis, quote "I hear you have a traveling circus coming here on Sunday," referring to the state summit of the Republic of Serbia. It's a shame. We see that a few days ago he was elected so-called. The new prime minister of the government in Pristina, Albin Kurti, who has already threatened Serbia with having nothing to do with the formation of Serb municipalities communities. I will just remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that Kurti is a proven Albanian extremist, who proved his extremism in the 1990s, when he was convicted of terrorist attacks and, unfortunately, was released, thanks to Vojislav Kostunica, who pardoned him. He was suspended from 15 years in prison, to what extent he was sentenced to, for terrorism and for working to secede KIM. Of course, in the day of the vote, I will support this bill, which I call on my colleagues from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, to do the same. I have a question for the minister. Given the huge negative impact of the pandemic on air traffic, is there a problem with the realisation of the concession for "Nikola Tesla" airport? Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4404	I thank the MP Boskovic. The word has Minister Momirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4405	Dear Mr. Boskovic, thank you very much for this question, thank you for the complete presentation, because you have really presented a large number of information for the Concession contract and thank you for this moving presentation, related to NATO bombing. It's really hard to talk about anything except this terrible war that we all went through in 1999. As repeatedly repeated, it's hard to forget, but as we as the people who run this country, together we have to overcome it and take revenge on all the teams that tried, didn't endanger it, tried to destroy this people and threaten its independence. One of the greatest victories in my opinion is this contract on Concession. Indeed, our policy behind which we all stand together, led by the President of the Republic, has many victories. They're mostly visible. They refer to roads, infrastructure facilities, railway infrastructure, tomorrow and the municipal infrastructure, growth of economic standards, political independence, support for our people in the region, but no project in my opinion is as visible as the Belgrade and VANSI concessions. It's hard to separate it from ER Serbia. We invested a lot in ER Serbia, many were against these investments, and we allowed traffic to increase drastically. You mentioned it, but let me mention again, in 2013, there were 3.5 million passengers, and in 2019 six million passengers, and it immediately raised the attractiveness of our airport, not only as VANSI wanted. We are this price that is 501m euros, which in cash flow of money, at the worst times in March meant a lot, that we can buy medical equipment. That price didn't come just because VANSI was interested. Everyone was interested in Belgrade Airport. Belgrade Airport has become a regional centre and it is very good and it is seen today that we have chosen a company such as VANSI, which is one of the world's largest companies, one of the responsible companies, which has been projecting its business for decades. People were asking a question, why 25 years? How to invest, or demand that your partner invest 700m euros, to strive to bring 15 million passengers. These are the ambitions of the VANSI without giving him safety for 25 years. Imagine if we hadn't done this job, what would happen to Belgrade airport now? We'd be out of all this money, we'd be in a very difficult position, in terms of fighting the pandemic, and the question is how to pay people at the airport, who aren't small. This is really one triumph of wise politics, visions, because she didn't come by the way someone came up with the idea of giving Concession in the morning, giving Concession in the evening. It's a strategic building of ER Serbia's air infrastructure and this is the crown of it. Of course, VANSI people are at risk in both Belgrade and around the world where they have airports. It is a company that sees far more than five years, for the next 20 years, and therefore today they invest and plan to invest more than 200m euros over the next five years. I'd like to ask you and invite you to visit, we can and together, it would be a great pleasure to see what the airport looks like now that the work is under way. You won't believe it, Belgrade Airport is completely changing its vision. Just like Nis Airport tomorrow, when we invest in a new building, it's completely different, it's a shame what Nis Airport looks like today. He must look a lot better. He'll look much better soon. We have our own task force that monitors investment. We stick to the contract, we're ready to help our concession partners, they're a serious company. For now, and I am convinced that there will be no problem in the future in that concession, that once we get out of this pandemic we will have the most powerful airport in the region with the most powerful company "Er Serbia" and that it will be a real triumph in that it will be in spite of 1999. Serbia is also raising itself to spite all those people who have tried to threaten our independence, to destroy this people, of course, failed then, fail even now with politics, headed by the President of the Republic, we are moving forward with little steps, we are flying forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4406	I thank Minister Momirović. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtovica Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4407	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, MP group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, there is no doubt that in the day of the vote they will support this bill. The development of infrastructure, both air traffic, both road, rail, water transport, related to telecommunications, is a priority for building a new modern economic and powerful Serbia. That's the government's policy. That's the policy that our President Alexander Vukic advocates. When it comes to this law, first of all, I want to say that Serbia is on a strategic path, on the path of the EU, and it is quite justified that in the voting day we will support this law, because it refers to a single, European, air market, and Serbia is every one seeking Europe and seeking a single, European airspace in order to better position our country in air traffic, but in order to increase the safety and security of all passengers. I must stress that it is also important for our country to have a project that the concessionaire French is working on at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, which invests 732m euros for the reconstruction of the "Nikola Tesla" airport, with the aim of serving instead of 6.2 million passengers in the future, 15 million passengers. The "Nikola Tesla" airport, otherwise, will become a hub for air traffic not in Serbia, but in this part of Southeast Europe. Of course, here I have to mention that this concession was brought and thanks to the vision and thanks to the extremely friendly relations between the President of the Republic of Serbia and French President McCron, because we know that they have met on several occasions, that they have spoken in person, but our President Aleksandar Vukic whenever he meets with the statesmen of powerful countries, whether they are east, there are always businessmen and there are always agreements that are signed to strengthen our economy. Of course, here I must point out that in recent years, the Republic of Serbia has broadly brought its legislation on air traffic into line with EU legislation. I must stress that in this time since the arrival of the SNS and how it was done at the development of new airports, so are you in your opening presentation, there is, of course, significant "Constantin Velika" airport in Nis, there is also, of course, Morava Airport near Kraljev, who personally opened the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic for Vidovdan, there is, of course, in the plan to build an airport in southwestern Serbia at the former military airport "Ponikeva", it will become a freight and civil traffic airport, and it will certainly mean something to the citizens of this part of Serbia. Apart from air traffic, I must stress that all these years since the country's economic stabilisation has been working precisely on the development of very significant infrastructure projects concerning road transport. I will indicate that Corridor 10 is finished, that it is working on the highway "Milos the Great", that until St. Nicholas this year 30.9 kilometers of highway will be completed, which connects Preljina and Požega and will mean a new impulse and a new vessel cook, both for the economy and for the citizens living in this area. Of course, I must point out that Požega is not the ultimate destination of this highway, that from Požega one leg of the highway will go towards Kotroman and that way we will go further to connect with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the other leg will go through the Pestar High, towards Bolar, which is, in fact, connecting Serbia with the neighbouring state of Montenegro. Building infrastructure facilities, of course, affecting the economic growth and development of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia, unlike many more developed and much more significant economies, much stronger economies in Europe, has shown that during the Kovid 19 pandemic, it has the best economic outcome, it has the best health result, because Serbia today is the first in Europe by the number of vaccines and seven in the world thanks to the government's responsibility, thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic's responsibility, Serbia is today able to vaccinate its citizens, and to help its neighbours, to help Republika Srpska, help Bosnia and Herzegovina, help Montenegro, help to help Northern Macedonia, but also help more developed countries than we do, and as an example to state Italy. Of course, I have to point out and build a very significant highway, it's the Moravia Corridor, which will actually connect Corridor 10 and 11. The construction of the highway started. This means a better quality of life for about 500,000 citizens, on that highway, that's a broad-profile highway, that's a highway that will also have all the necessary telecommunications network, that's the highway that will bring new investors, which will increase and affect the overall economic growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. Today is March 24th and today is 22 years since the criminal NATO bombing of the Republic of Serbia, which lasted 78 days. For 78 days the target of the criminal NATO bombing was soldiers, but also civilians, they were residential buildings, but bridges, they were hospitals, but also kindergartens, they were nursing homes. In a criminal NATO aggression against our country, 79 children lost their lives. Among them, there is certainly a small Milica Rakic from Batajnica who died in her costume house, and she was only three years old. There is also the boy Marko Simic of Novi Pazar, who died, also in his house, and his father's hug. There are also children aged five and eight in Sopot, who also died in their home, in the arms of their father and in the presence of their aunt. And there's a 26-year-old pregnant woman who's been blown up by tape bombs in Nis, who's lost her life, and she and her unborn baby. By 2012, he did not mention the victims, nor did NATO's criminal aggression mark his real name, but rather called it campaigns, actions, some merciful angels, and those who bombed children, who carbonised the body of a six-year-old boy in the Siscevac gorge, after these bombings said it was collateral damage. In this way, they added pain to both relatives and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as criminal bombing was without any basis and contrary to international law, without a UN decision. Of course, by 2012, the regime was ashamed and ashamed of those 108 soldiers who, defending our country, defended our country, died in Kosharam. On average they were 25 years old and between death for their homeland and the lives they had just stepped into, they chose this first and no one thanked them and no one honored Alexander Vukic. The first to introduce a mark on March 24th as the Day of Suffering and Criminal Aggression against our people is Alexander Vukic. Those before him, who until 2012 managed this country, should be ashamed and ashamed of them, but they seem to have had more pressing jobs. They had jobs robbing people's couples, but also jobs hiding these couples in 17 different countries, in over 50 countries, from Mauritius to Hong Kong, Switzerland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and so on, but they were until 2012, and the people sent them to the dump of history because they were ashamed of those who were the best part of us, and these were all those who defended our country in 1999. Of course, I want to point out that we don't have dilemmas when it comes to building all infrastructure facilities. I must point out that the reconstruction of the bar track to Valjev is over, that from Belgrade to Valjev train now travels 130 kilometers. The train used to travel 20 to 30 kilometers. Of course, there is a need to continue to reconstruct this railway, as this railway is a breadth of a housewive for many municipalities in western Serbia and southwestern Serbia. That's where I think of Preboy and Precipice. Of course, you should also think about connecting these municipalities, as well as the municipalities of Nova Varosh with the highway that will go towards Kotroman and Bolard. I would like to point out that the highway being built by Ruma-Shabac will mean a better quality of life for 600,000 citizens. This better quality of life means that people will stay there, that investors will come, that new jobs will be opened and that everyone will have better conditions for life, survival and development. In the end, Mr. Minister, I want to ask you a question. In addition to "Nikola Tesla", the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, announced investment in Trebinj airport. Is it continuing to implement this project despite the pandemic of covid viruses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4408	Thank you. The word has Minister Tomislav Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4409	Dear Mrs. Vukoicic, thank you very much for this question. Thank you for this retrospective. Indeed, I don't think anyone looked back, we talked about the bombing, but we didn't talk about how it was bombing and how our heroes, how all these victims were bombed, whether civilians, whether military, what they had been treated after 2000. That was really a pain in the ass to watch. Everyone's nobody at that moment-- yeah, that was bad, but... Everyone's "but," "but it's our fault they bombed us," "it wasn't wise, but they bombed." Ali, but, but. Indeed, this policy of apology, it is something that has left a deep mark on all of us, I think of all the citizens of this country, throughout the people, and that is why the President of the Republic and all of us who support him and we stand behind him and we have so much support. People can't watch that anymore. Look at that party that was carrying that power, where did it come from? To be a pendant from Mauritius, that's what they came down to. They destroyed their party as they destroyed this country for ten years. They're all gone. Far from us talking about the campaign today. We're talking about the one evil that hit us back then, which is not our fault. We can only be guilty of no longer destroying them when they tried to enter our country. Our Falcons did not allow it then and will never allow it in the future. We often forget that these dark forces are not only the calf to destroy our people, but they wanted us and each other to kill ourselves in Serbia as they killed each other in Bosnia. They wanted there to be a mob port we didn't allow back then, and how can we let it now, when we have such a strong leadership? We can't do it without the region. Our biggest partners are BiH with Republika Srpska and Montenegro. We have to build traffic towards them, whether railways, whether they travel, whether they air. I'd like to inform you that we're working intensively on designing a piece from Valjev to the railroad willow. It's a strategically important railroad to us. At least we have a strategically important port. We work and design the highway Požega-Uzice-Cotroman. Our goal is to connect with Sarajevo. It's our market. This is where our people live. We're doing all this for it. One of these investments is projected by Trebinje Airport. Of course we didn't give up. This is a direct initiative by the President of the Republic and this year we have allocated 70 million dinars in our budget for the design of technical documentation and 240 million dinars for expropriation. I'll remind you that we've already formed a company that's working on it. We're working very carefully. We're doing a feasibility study to show us what kind of airport we need there, so it's definitely part of the plans. If you'll allow me, please, since you've looked back on our delegation's visit with the President of the Republic of France, and I've had the opportunity and the honor of being part of that delegation. It's my first visit. For the first time, I have looked at all of this and I feel bad because more people could not see what treatment our delegation has, what treatment the president of the Republic in a country like France - a nuclear force, the EU's greatest military force with what respect he is addressing to the President of our Republic. That respect exceeds our economic power and our political power. That respect has nothing to do with love, that respect has to do with the merits and the policy that the President of the Republic has made, and that's why this country is here today. I wish everyone knew what I saw there, which means when you in France say you were vaccinated. They look at you and they don't believe you. Very few people in France, Germany, the entire EU has a chance to be vaccinated. We don't see at all what a privilege it is to have available vaccines. Not to mention that you have a chance to choose vaccines. Well, it's just amazing. I was against it. We've raised standards to an incredible level. When you tell someone in Germany you're vaccinated, they look at you like they don't believe you, like you came from Mars. We need to be aware that the availability of the vaccine is the result of one permanent, careful position building policy, which our President of the Republic has done and has ensured that we have both American, European, Russian and Chinese vaccines. So we have a chance to get out of this crisis first, we just need to vaccinate, especially people over 60. Please, I would take this, if you're satisfied with my answer, I would take this opportunity to invite people to be vaccinated. Help yourself, help your people, help the economy. It's the only way we can get out of this story. We have vaccines, we have a chance to win first. We're in charge of this, and only personal irresponsibleness can stop us from doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4410	I thank the Minister. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4411	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, Mrs. Kovac, the esteemed Head of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Momirović, the esteemed Assistant Kovacevic, the esteemed Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate, Mrs. Cismarov, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, is today a very sad day for the Republic of Serbia. On this day 22 years ago, a criminal aggression was committed against our country and many of our people were killed there. I would like to refer to the presentation of counterpart Jevtović Vukojičić and Mr. Momirovic, who made that clear distinction when it comes to two terms: campaign and aggression, or crime. We must all remember that NATO campaign, so-called The NATO campaign was actually aggression. It's one big crime. It's a bombing. It's one of the biggest crimes that's happened lately in Europe, and we need to be aware of that, to remember this date. May eternal glory be to all our heroes who have laid down their lives for their homeland. At today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about a proposal for a law confirming the Decision and ISA of 31 July 2019 replacing the Annex 1 to the multilateral agreement between the European Community and its states, as well as the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the Mission of the UN Interim Administration in Kosovo and Metohija, of course, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999 on the establishment of a common European aviation area. This is a very important decision for the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the agreement was signed by the Republic of Serbia in 2006, ratified in the National Assembly in 2009, and only in 2017 it came into force, as other signatories were expected to ratify agreements in their national parliaments. This ISA Agreement aims to establish a common European aviation area and is based on the so-called EU liquids, i.e. aki communitre. The basic objectives of this ISA Agreement include free establishment of enterprises, free market access, equal conditions of competition, as well as common rules in the areas of aviation security, security, air traffic management, environment and other social conditions. This new Decision, namely the amendment of this Annex 1 to the multilateral ISA Agreement, provides for some new regulations concerning the civil aviation sector, especially those directly related to civil, civil, aviation, safety and air traffic management and air traffic themselves, but also those which indirectly refer to the civil aviation sector concerned by the rules on insurance, safety and safety at work, the protection of users, as well as to the protection of service providers. The relevant element of this ISA Agreement is contained in that Article 18, where the establishment of a Joint Committee on Control and Implementation of the Agreement itself is envisaged. The committee is expected to meet once a year and is represented by certain delegations from signatories countries. It can make binding decisions, of course, but it can also make some recommendations to better implement the ISA agreement in those signatories countries. Having in mind that we are a country that is on the path of European integration, it is necessary to fully implement this agreement in order to maintain this flow. Since we are talking about a common aviation area at European level, and since we are talking about aircraft and national airlines in general, we must bear in mind all the essential results we have achieved in previous years. Here I would like to commend, first of all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, of course, our President Aleksandr Vukic, Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure of Mr Momirovic, not only when it comes to air traffic, but when it comes to the entire sector of traffic and construction and our director of the Directorate for Civil Aviation, Mrs Mirjan Cizarov. I'd like to look back on those results. Of course, when we compare the period from 2000 to 2012 and this period from 2012 to now, I would like to talk specifically about our airline, or our aircraft, or our fleet. That's when we had JAT. JAT was literally brought to ruin. What's important is that every national airline has to have one respectable fleet to deal with this business, and we had 14 planes on paper back then. Of those 14 planes, nine were flying, and in fact only six planes were completely safe and functional for flights. Today we have 18 planes, 18 new planes. Of course, one part of those planes is from that old base, but they're remounted and optimized with the latest electronic navigation systems. The engines on them are also remounted. As far as our fleet is concerned, as I said, we used to have six functional aircrafts. Today we're 18. The fleet consists of one Airbus A330, one Erbas A320, 11 Airbus aircraft A319, three ATR 72200 and two ATR 72500, which makes the fleet a total of 18 aircraft. Also, during that period during that yellow tycoon government, we were selling our McDonald-Douglas DC-9 and DC-10, planes capable of overseas flights. Of course, we sold out, we spent one piece of it, and we spent the plane of the guy Boing 727. In that period, in almost 13 years, nine directors of the national airline were changed. Annual losses were up to 30m euros a year, and JAT's assets were sold in 2003. That yellow government has repeatedly tried unsuccessfully to privatise our airline. They, of course, did not, as we know, succeed in whether they had no good intentions or were simply incapable of doing anything about it. Thanks to Alexander Vukic's efforts and the efforts of the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, we today have one successful airline, a domestic national, strong Air Serbia airline, which confirms its constant quality and which wins numerous awards and numerous international recognitions. Also, when our airport "Nikola Tesla", our largest hub in the Republic of Serbia, I must say that after 30 years, a direct line of Belgrade -- New York -- has been re-established, and Nikola Tesla Airport has become part of the world's airport family. A concession was signed with the company “Vansi airports”. Also, from 2013 to 2019, there is an increase in the number of passengers of 74%, but also an increase in income of 86.1%. Another important project is building a control tower, 75m high, at the "Nikola Tesla" airport, which will be equipped with state-of-the-art radar systems and navigation systems. He's in the construction phase. Of course, we also opened a civil-military airport called Morava at the Kings. Also, another important thing is that we also marked the 76th anniversary of Operation Halliard at Prajan, where our army saved a number of Allied pilots. We reconstruct and modernise airports, primarily "Constantin Veli" in Nis, where a tower of 35 meters will be built, and a small sports airport "Rosulja" near Kruševec is built. Based on all these results and projects from the previous period, we can boast that Serbia has become part of a modern European, free to say, and world aviation families, and yet on the other hand we are aware that the pandemic of the coronary virus has taken hold. Unfortunately, and when it comes to Serbia and when it comes to all other countries, a decline in the tourism sector, in the trade sector, has been observed, generally when we talk about traffic. I'm sure we'll deal with it. I am using this opportunity to appeal to all citizens to be vaccinated, because we are the champions of vaccination and in the case of the EU and when it comes to the whole territory of Europe and when it comes to the whole world. I believe that we need to be vaccinated as soon as possible, to be vaccinated even faster, to protect our lives, and therefore, based on these results that we have achieved, I am sure that our airline and all our airports will again, when we win this virus of the crown, have a boom and that we will return to those famous paths from 2019 when we have achieved results that are very good, even for some developed European state. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4412	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4413	Just for a little while. I'd like to thank you for this quality elaborate. You've really covered it very well, not only for this agreement, but for aviation completely. It's been a great pleasure listening. I would like to take this opportunity to give you the same words of support to you, Mr. Luka and the other MPs, first and foremost, to those to whom this is the first time that they are members of this house. Do not let those who are worse than you waver to you, but are much worse than you. You're here in front of a policy that has great victories and that competes with history. You're not here by accident, you're being carefully chosen. It is my great honor and pleasure to have the opportunity to share this home with you. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4414	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4415	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Momirović and his associates, I did not have the opportunity to last time for health reasons, when you were first in parliament, so it is an honor and pleasure to have the opportunity to speak today and to hear you proactively participate in this debate which has a small and wider context than the agenda point, which is in any case extremely grateful for the debate, especially if we are looking at it in a broader context, not only regionally, but also at the harmonisation of European legislation in this area. I'm not an expert, and I don't want to prove myself through some kind of story normative, in terms of ratification of this agreement, as well as some of the earlier agreements that were here, interstate. As I come from Republika Srpska, from BiH, I have been living here in Serbia for some time now, I must stress my satisfaction that in this term, we also have today's law agreement, in terms of ratification earlier as a common phenomenon. I hope that these agreements and initiatives coming from Serbia in terms of not only regional leadership in certain aspects of infrastructure work will be a dominant point, not only in this assembly, but also in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of your ministry. It's in action and in words, as we can see. Here's my chance to go to Bijeljina today, so I've been through Ratche. I see the work and how well they're doing. We hope that the works of very quickly and predisposition concerning expropriation and everything else in Republika Srpska will move very quickly and that we will be able to see these works in Republika Srpska, that is, BiH. This part that is zealously met, for which there are budget items, for which work is already making serious progress in every sense, is a great support and message, not only for citizens in the Republic of Serbia, but for citizens in Republika Srpska in the area and Semberija, as well as for Majevica and Posavina and the region of Birca, as well as for all BiH citizens who will pass through in the future. The best possible curator and leader in one country is the one who runs the projects that are going this way. We know that this initiative, like all others, was launched by the President of the Republic of Serbia who also knows that the citizens of Republika Srpska know how important it is that this part of the highway and the arms towards Bijeljina, i.e. towards Raca, be completed as soon as possible. It is of strategic importance, such as the strategic importance of connecting, not only that part of the route that is connected to Banja Luka, but that we also connect with Sarajevo. Therefore, this second leg, which is related to Kotroman, Visegrad, and what will be done in the territory of Republika Srpska, but also to the Federation of BiH, will bring Banja Luka and Sarajevo to Belgrade, where they should naturally watch and where, as you said earlier in your discussion, in this era of pandemic and Corona virus, so if you want to specifically talk about what we most talk about today, promotions and vaccination campaigns and how important messages. Just imagine, here, when we cross the Drina River, we have a completely different situation. Here, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether they live in the south or north, regardless of which district, in which municipality, where local communities live, can choose which vaccine they will receive. We have mobile teams now and in homes and country hospitals, we vaccine, we don't even have to have this model that's so successful, that we've praised so much through e-government to use, but it's enough of their own free will, physically to come, and that's where our medical workers are waiting for them to do what's most important at this point, the ultimate patriotic act, and that's to vaccinate. There is no more important patriotic act at this point, and no more important, if we compare it to the region, because unfortunately, you have seen, if we are just talking about BiH, and we can talk about Croatia, Montenegro, the whole region that has been in line with the Kovaks system, so that there are practically no vaccines in these countries and without the support of Serbia, which is well-neighbored and well-neighborly shared with its neighbours... The situation when you cross the river Drina is completely different. A large number of citizens, friends he has in both the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, are asking for a way to vaccinate, even if they come to Serbia. Until 10-15 days ago, foreigners were in one place to vaccinate. In this case, if we're talking about BiH citizens, in the Biocidal Office. Unfortunately, because of this pandemic situation that's coming together, it's not even possible right now. An appeal that comes from citizens, who are not hard to come to Belgrade or anywhere in the Republic of Serbia, to allow at least one place to come here and vaccinate. There are good measures adopted today at the Crisis Headquarters, which go in this direction to the foreigners, when we talk about foreigners, here we talk about citizens who come from the region, who have succeeded in whether due to dual citizenship or otherwise, by asking, for example, the institution of the Constitutional Court of BiH, by administrative, official means through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or their Ministry of Foreign Affairs for judges of the Constitutional Court to be vaccinated, so it is approved, so they went to Loznica etc. These are all very important messages that indicate that Serbia, not only is a leader in this area, but it shows its human face to all citizens in the region, knowing that in this kind of story, only when we all vaccinate in the region will it be safe and Serbia, or Serbia's citizens, and that the economy, infrastructure works, plans that we have in this kind of story will be able to move faster and more efficiently to realise. In that direction, my distinguished colleague Milanka spoke earlier and asked you a question about construction and plans to build an airport in Trebinj. It's no longer an initiative, as far as we know. As far as we were able to adopt ourselves here as MPs, we have adopted certain budget items that are predisposition to that, certain locations have been chosen. We hope there will be an expropriation soon. Let me just say that this, again, initiative by President Vukic, who had the desire to help Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina to build an airport in Trebinj that is a beautiful place in every sense of the words that everyone loves from the region to visit. The airport line on the Belgrade-Trebinje route and all other flights that will be commercial, low budget, I suppose will be very important. What is more important is that Serbia is giving a leader's initiative and, unfortunately, there was an initiative in Republika Srpska to build an airport that was shut down as early as 2014. Unfortunately, the project, based on the local initiative, failed to be realised during the period. That is why it is very important that citizens not only Trebinj, not only in Herzegovina, but also in the complete Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina look at Belgrade and expect not only to realize the project, but also to expect us to go directly to Trebinje in 2022 or 2023 because of this pandemic. It's so important. There are many challenges ahead of you, in front of your ministry, and it is very important in this kind of story that all that we are going to do in the coming time to start here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the messages that we are going to send from here, the messages you are sending in front of your ministry, the infrastructure works that are going in the direction of integration, in this case the two states, and, more importantly, if we look only at the position of a nation that is a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a majority people here, of the Serbian people, and how important and a national issue. Therefore, once again, full of support for the President of the Republic of Serbia for what he has proposed, you, your associates, public enterprises working on the construction of these highways, fast roads, roads, and companies that participate in making it more efficient and better for the benefit of all citizens not only of the Republic of Serbia, but of the region. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4416	Thank you. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4417	Thank you, Chairman. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Republic of Serbia, today, although I have a bone in my throat because of today's date, I will talk about a multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the Mission of the UN provisional administration in Kosovo and the Metohija in the establishment of the Joint European Aviation Area, the ESSA Agreement signed on 29 June 2006, and the Serbian Assembly ratified on 14 May 2009. The agreement aims to establish a common European aviation area by applying the basic principles of the European community in areas defined by the agreement in the countries associated with the agreement, including the Republic of Serbia. The Agreement entered into force on 1 December 2017. Advocating Serbia's President, Aleksandr Vukic, and the Serbian government and establishing good neighbourly co-operation with everyone in the region with the EU's accession, as well as fighting for our national interests, which was not the case with the former regime, because these were foreign, their basic objectives include free market access, freedom to set up businesses, equal conditions of competition and common rules in the areas of air security, air traffic security, social conditions and environmental protection, with all this and clear protection of Serbia's interests. This is due to the responsible policy of Alexander Vukic, which one of the countries that was the appendix of Europe has become a questionable state, but primarily thinks about the future of its children and future generations. The contribution of the former regime can best be seen in the case of Vuk, "aeroblub" Jeremic, who only for five years heroically, along with his relatives, allegedly fought for KIM from the Royal Room 3,000 dollars a night, while his colleague, as Atlagic, said, "Djiki Switzerlandrac", is his real name, on his luxury travels with those same planes, spent 3.6m euros. To make what I'm telling the Serbian citizens more clear, these were exactly the same exotic destinations as Mauricias, Switzerland, Cyprus, Luxembourg, Hong-Kong, all at the expense of the troubled people of Serbia. I don't think that's an accident. What have they achieved? Kosovo and Metohija were not defended. The people there only traded shamelessly, they traded with that people, and the people in Kosovo and Metohija, from other parts of Serbia, were shamelessly robbed. The former regime, led by Dragan Gilas, integrated its money into Monden sites and its accounts by encouraging the Air Force to transfer the same money and to the designated destinations of 17 countries and 57 accounts. While Dragan Gilas and his octopus of underpaid kleptomaniacs do not hesitate to address the people through the tycoon media in addition to numerous proven affairs, because he probably lacks the luxury of being boasted and now in fear of evidence in all ways trying to lead the policy of destruction and lies. Who among them would give up 55,000 euros and travel around the world, Valdorf, Astoria, Hilton, Hayatt? Who would give up a keen sense of luxury, but also an exotic of 619m euros? So, no wonder that their false struggle for Serbia, KIM was just a side act used to make them rich, thus bringing the people of Serbia to ruin. Now, together with his associates, Marinic "Mauricias" Tepic, Šolako "secikes", best man Djordjevic, Vuk Jeremic wants to wash away the mud of shame and hide the horrors they left behind. The only way to do that is to satanize everything that Alexander Wolfs and SNS did. The people of Serbia see, the people of Serbia know, and the people of KIM better than anyone. Long live Serbian defense heroes. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4418	Thank you. With this presentation, we end up working in this part of the session. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. First next presentation, MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4419	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4420	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was hoping that Orlic would chair, but apparently Mr. Orlic, according to his last name, began to use this airspace, so I will, while he is absent, take advantage of the opportunity to say something. I disagree with Mr. Pekic's saying, which is quoted here. I'd rather quote a British man. No matter what the saying -- when two fish are fighting at the bottom of the sea, there must be a British or an Englishman somewhere behind a stone. So, I'll quote Churchill. He says the further you look back, the further you'll see ahead. We who wouldn't look back, and that's another saying, if we didn't look a little into the past, then it could happen again. Today is the day when 19 NATO nations have committed aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The military of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia reportedly started the aggression. It has grown very quickly into aggression towards civilian goals as a revenge against civilians and civilian goals. That's when they dropped 22 million tons of missiles, and if we had between eight and nine million people, they dropped two and a half kilos of missiles per capita. These two-and-a-half kilos of missiles could have killed each of us at least one 20 times, because we all know that in hand grenades there are 100 grams of trolls and that she's capable of killing more people. There's also a saying that from barbarism to civilization it's going to take centuries. But they also say that during the NATO pact's aggression from civilization to barbarism, it only takes a few days. In those few days, they changed their goal rather than target, which was also unwarranted, without the UN Security Council's permission, instead of targeting military targets, they were retaliating, targeting primarily civilian facilities and civilians. At least two thousand civilians were killed on that occasion. At that time, more than six thousand civilians were wounded, causing damage or destruction to thousands of housing units, of which 995 individual houses were inhabited by civilians. 44 bridges have been torn down, Mr. Minister, roads have been destroyed, stripes, about 500 kilometers. The damage we suffered was between 30 billion and 100 billion like the land. As someone who stood up together with his party to enter this civilization called the European Community, later the EU, I was found because instead of democracy after that aggression we received a monopoly and crime, and between that we received sanctions, bombings and dissuaded organs. It is solely the responsibility of the NATO Pact and the countries of Western these democracies. What do you say to that? He who has power, there's this saying - he takes by force. One who has no power, such a great force, needs to take his head, needs to get his head back, and time is the best proof of it. Whoever can wait for him will open the door. We'll wait, but don't wait with your hands tied and your hands cut. We have to wait to build this country, building, of course, airports, roads, railways, everything that's been abandoned. During that aggression, many bridges and roads were destroyed. They were bombed because of Milosevic and his opponents, let's say my smallness. The radarists who hung out with me 77 days, the first day we waited to start, they were bombed 23 times. Their name is, the Partisan name, Dacic will be glad, the Sreme foxes. They filmed that invisible plane at Panchev's turn, and they filmed it because they had been damaged by radar a few days before, so from Rakovica, which is no longer a military secret, they got old radar from 1954, Soviet production, which had no understanding of the new STEL technology. So they saw this invisible in this common European NATO area, which took place exclusively above our country, and then these down from Ruma, Budjanovci, from Lower Srem, with the other radar instructions "Neva" and thus brought down what no one had ever shot down before. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that, but we must remember those who are like me, a political opponent, as well as hundreds of thousands of others who have been mostly mobilized because they say - when war comes, let's re-pronounce, the state gives technique, cannons, it's an old saying, the rich give the ox, and the poor give the sons. Most people were young people then, and they were the force that very well resisted thanks to NATO's plans and skills pact. They lost their nerve and shot RTS. They're telling us about freedom of the media today. Today, they're separated by Sollac, Gilas, talking about freedom of the media. The freedom of the media and sovereignty and the invariableness of borders are told to us by those who bombed us to change our borders, those who supported the destruction of a country in six states, and now they say: the unchangeability of borders. They allowed everyone to separate from Serbia, and, behold, miracles today, Serbia cannot separate from its province, as far as I understand them. It was the essence of NATO's aggression pact, to park its military force in large Albania, which de facto, almost exists. Don't be in some kind of illusion. The NATO Pact has already put that together. So you have parts of Montenegro, you have parts of Macedonia. I personally don't care about Macedonia, because they were the happiest winners of Serbian victories. I'm not particularly sorry, but parts of Macedonia, parts of Serbia, or our southern province, Albania is already in essence, a large Albania, and there's a NATO pact parked to harm the great Russians, they took part in the territory by aggression to small Russians. In doing so, they used our territory as a common ground and were very rude and very group, and they were making a huge retaliatory effort against civilian goals. Take down 44 bridges, kill over two thousand civilians, and then control a certain territory, occupy it and allow hundreds of Serbs and non-Albanians to conduct experiments by taking out their organs alive. Such barbarism and such a sudden transition from civilization to barbarism could only make a NATO pact. I'm not sure if we don't look back in the past, it won't happen again. Don't think they love us too much, as far as I can see, no matter how many of these other people have caressed, touched, left, right, maybe they'll pardon Gilas, Solak, a little bit, but they'll never treat the Serbian people as some kind of co-worker with the same rights. They don't need any associates, as far as I can tell. They need subjects, especially on these military matters, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, you mentioned Tibor Cern, if I'm not mistaken. Tibor Cerna belongs to those poor people who are given by their fathers, right, poor fathers give into soldiers. Tibor Cerna, as I recall, was from Kovačica, his last words on Košharam – worth dying for. That's what his classmates say, and I believe it. He was of Hungarian origin, a citizen of Serbia, a citizen of the SFRY, understood the injustice, laid down his life. Let's talk to the others who shared some air and land space with us. Let's talk about Dusan Teodorovic, the academic man, the academic SANU. Face, bottom. Penetrating cheek. From his cheek to make vests, it's gonna hold a broiling caliber. I'm not sure if this one from Lazara, a little harder than 50 millimetres of ammunition, could penetrate a vest like that that would be made of his cheek. Imagine a man who teaches to students, a professor at Traffic College, whom Mr. Atlagic calls headmaster, imagine him, and now calls some code famous, imagine him who escapes into aggression on the aggressor side. Look, you're an academic, you're a professor, there's been a war, you students have to be an example, you're in years, if they don't regret their life, if they're going to go to Koshare etc., I guess as a professor, the one in Kragujevac, who was standing, and he could not stand with the students, I guess you should do that, you still don't know if you're going to get hit by these from above, whether they're going to target you. Put some target on your chest, like they do, Target, and serve as an example to students no matter how much fear that human being may have felt. He defected to the aggressor side. Imagine now this other political leader who has failed to be placed in parliament. While Tibor Cerna lay down his life, Sergei Trifunovic went to the ministries and cried. He asked for permission at all costs and ultimately I don't know if he got or didn't get it, mostly and he defected to the aggressor side. Let's go to the third example of those who, instead of this country, are worth dying for, were about to have a password for this country to rob. Imagine Dragan Gilas, who at the same time is scratching something, going to the Czech Republic to open companies and wash windows. Later than washing the window, so Mrs. Christmas came to launder a huge amount of money, but that he was washing some Western power money like Saric, worse than Saric. It's the biggest investor of these exes, it's not ours, is it? They are so sensitive to Jovanic, but also to Saric and the biggest investor who bought a bunch of combinations, etc. Their big investor, but don't mention it. Imagine now all this in this troubled country of ours. Imagine Gilas right then has a chance to go to the Czech Republic to open up companies. The fourth, which was probably a small distance between Kosovo and Cačka, is called Bosko Obradovic, in a people known as Boskic Ljotic, I would, in my experience, have been uncomfortable, yet I would call him Bosko angry, not to say a bully who touched some of the MEPs, wanting to stop them from entering the session and facilitate the opposition's signing, or going to the elections. Imagine the ruling majority, we lower the censorship, the signatures can be collected in municipalities and now in St. Marka, a great believer, Bosko Obradovic, with 15 other hooligan believers, probably believed in "trouble", thus acting, storming down those 15 steps and attacking my smallness. Imagine now that they went home and said: we shared a common staircase and common airspace and land and we beat up a man who could be our father by age. Now that's the kind of believer who, during that aggression while all the planes were using our own, and they thought it was a common space where we weren't supposed to fly, because that's why they shot us down, imagine now, he's at that point in need of not being on Kosovo, so he flew into Belgrade so that if they shot from Kosovo, they could get to Chačka, and he came and ran to Belgrade and started the Dveri magazine, he decided to go through a magazine of accounts with 19 NATO pact countries that are now making aggression on his country. Such an aggressive character, angry man, Ljotic, as he was, such an aggressive character at the time was as calm as a bug. I would appreciate that he was aggressive and then, that he flew in there to deal with the NATO Army, that he ran into our sacred Kosovo and Metohija, and that he was an example of Kosharam and said, you know what, I'm going to end the war first, and then I'm going to start the Dvori magazine to describe all of my wars. You mentioned Tibor Cerna, that's the difference between our voters and them. Our voters are ready and in all the crises, when they were savaged here in front of the Assembly, they called, offered help, support. Poor people when they come to choose, elections, etc. Through the weeds, through the mud, only now do you withdraw loans for these rural areas, road construction, telecommunications, etc. These people have long deserved to live in silk and cadifes in which those from downtown Belgrade, who hate us more and more, honors with exceptions, there are plenty of them, but those in Belgrade hate us more. The Macedonians hate us the most, so the Slovenes, then the Croats in Zagreb, so the Montenegrins, they hate us more than those in Zagreb, and I can say that they would move more freely in Zagreb than those in the circle of the Tramvai couple. If there are Ustashas in Zagreb, I don't know what to call these, who hate us more than those in Zagreb hate us. Now, that's the difference between the poor and the dirty rich. These rudely wealthy men who robbed the poor woman who's always defending this country, they didn't want to participate in the war. Academic swept away, the one who wanted to be some kind of political authority, Sergei Trifunovic, escaped, Gilas went to wash the windows in the Czech Republic, so when he saw that it wasn't worth it, he came to launder money, but to launder money he had to steal them first with Solak, etc. Where was Sollac? He was probably already riding with "Falcon" who earned along with Nash cowboy Goran Petrovic, in co-operation, was probably already entering various combinations that brought extreme profits. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, I'm going to find some quotes again and say that patience and time are the two most faithful and best fighters, those who fight for freedom. Those who have patience will one day open themselves to him and those who took by force will likely lose their minds. But in the end, to quote Kennedy, not to be an absolute advocate for disarmament, because we found a well-armed army. Says Kennedy, in order not to quote Tito, someone would be happy, “the real thing is an accident, but we have to admit, only ready for war can we preserve peace. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4421	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic, for mentioning Tito and the partisans so much. The People's MP Janko Langura has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4422	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I begin to really thank you, Minister, because you are actively taking part in today's session and to congratulate you on the energy and diligence that you daily provide all your working days to carry out all the projects from the first day of your term of office. As we all said and as we all know, today is one of the saddest days in Serbia's recent history. On today, NATO's aggression against the then federal republic of Yugoslavia was launched under the name "Merciful Angel", as well as the action of ethnic cleansing of the Serb population from our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, and by the Cypriot terrorists and with the help of the NATO alliance. 22 years later, we find ourselves in a situation where our fellow citizens in the southern province continue to fight for survival. But unlike the time when Tadic, Djilas, Jeremic, as well as Borko Stefanovic decided on their fate, they today have the support of Aleksandr Vukic and their country and the security that a new pogrom will not come. A few days ago, I had the honour of attending with my colleague Ivana Popovic the marking of the March pogrom in our municipality in KIM, the Municipality of Gracanica, and I don't remember seeing any of the representatives and calling the opposition who don't throw out any of the KIM moments. Also, we could not see any of the representatives of these two tycoon televisions who daily promote the fascist and tycoon policies run by Bosko Obradovic and Dragan Djilas, none of them were allowed to come to KIM, probably because they would have spent the same way as Dragan Gilas when he tried to come to Leposavic a few years ago. A few days ago, I got a letter from some unknown people. When I opened it, by bad handwriting, I thought it was some kids who were second or third grade, I just couldn't believe when I saw that some of the young people from this Gilas' private party, you wouldn't mind me not knowing what his name was, because by now he's changed over 20 parties in which, of course, he was headed and all of his centuries-old thieves. I've never heard of young people working in his private party. We all know that's where Marinika Tepic is employed. We were talking about her, that's the lady who's been using coke in Morovic for drugs, probably under the influence of the same psychoactive substances that her best friends and closest associates have served her repeatedly for drug dealing. We also know that on the payroll of Dragan Gilas and former director of BIA Vukadinovic, as well as former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, who has a painful need to attack Alexander Vukic daily and has now turned to our steel friendship that we have with the People's Republic of China. They are disturbed by the Chinese "Sinofarm" vaccines that we received thanks to the good policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic and thanks to the friendship our president has with the president of the People's Republic of China. On that case, you can see that they consciously gave up two million vaccines. They would knowingly, if they were in power, give up two million human lives. Also on the payroll of Dragan Gilas, there are still a dozen proven thieves from the former Belgrade city administration. These young officials of the former regime, as they call themselves, on the payroll of Dragan Gilas, show me today that the young leave our country. In addition to the ugly handwriting that I mentioned, they also show elemental illiteracy, so we could see that one Mark by profession is the Oil Industry, and that one John by the profession of the bookstore, whatever that means, the citizens. They now remembered young people who had to leave their eternal hearths with their families in the pogrom in 2004, and that no one, nor Borko Stefanovic, or this Vuk Jeremic, or Dragan Djilas, or Boris Tadic, had to move their fingers. I don't know if they happen to have a conscience right now that their lives, the lives of tens of thousands of our KIM citizens, have been sold for political careers? I am also interested in whether they were referring to young people when their foreign mentors asked to postpone recognition of KIM independence by one or two days, only to collect another cheap political point from Boris Tadic and to remain president of the Republic of Serbia, and of course, so that Dragan Djilas and the whole tycoon-yellow cartel could continue to steal and steal money from all of our citizens. I'm also interested in whether they're burning their consciences and what's left of work during their last government. I wonder if they're feeling guilty about throwing people out on the street. Do they have a conscience that they have put 619m euros in their pockets when people in Serbia have nothing to eat. I wonder if they're burning their conscience now that we know about their white world accounts, they say there are more than 50 in over 15 countries. They are likely, visiting their accounts around the white world, to meet people there, young people from Serbia who had to flee to provide any kind of existence for their family. Also, today we see that they are trying, looking for us, wanting to ban us from talking about what we think is right and beneficial to our citizens. We were also able to see their daily attacks on our distinguished colleague Sandra Christmas, as well as on Mrs. Biljo Pilje for the reason that they are bothered by the truth that they serve them daily. So they do not hesitate that the only thing they do is continue to insult and lead the politics of their insult and violence against women. We also saw journalist Dragan Gilas not answering the question, but trying to say that he doesn't like the dress the journalist wears or her hairstyle. We're really sorry we don't cut our hair in the hair salons where you cut your hair, and we don't buy our clothes in luxury thighs and expensive thighs where you buy them. Now that they've figured out all these facts, they've given themselves the right to write us a letter. I'll remind them that unlike them, we take care of young people. We open new factories, we open new jobs, we open new startup centers, we open new tech parks, we build apartments for young couples. That this is a good policy is not only seen by us, but also by various European institutions, so we had one Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies, which put Serbia as a sacred example, as regards the return of young people. The highest percentage we recorded on the return of young people from 24 to 29 years of age, and what I particularly look forward to is that through the Science Fund we will invest more than 100m euros for scientific and innovation infrastructure. That is what all citizens of the Republic of Serbia recognise and that is what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have cast their vote in the elections for. Thank you. Long live decent Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4423	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4424	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I mostly try not to answer for the discussion when there are points on the agenda that I don't think I'm professional and that I can't answer them in quality. What made me want to get public today on this agenda point? There's a few things. When it comes to air traffic that this law applies to, I can say that one of the things that defines me is that I can discuss being a flight control student and being prepared to control our sky, or the space in which this traffic takes place. The second item that makes me think I can speak, I am a member of a celestial people, a people who very often see the path of the sky praying for peace, praying for health, for the birth year and for the happiness and prosperity of all the people of this world. And thirdly, I am a member of a people who, 22 years ago today, was exposed to the great evil that came from heaven. This evil has been sown to us by the greatest villains in history -- the NATO Pact, the English, the French, and many of whom we are today telling us that they are our friends. And to be the most painful, as a few of my colleagues have said today, they have called this criminal action "the merciful angel". And what's merciful about it? What kind of mercy is that, when you throw away thousands and thousands of tons of radioactive material, when you're destroying fertile land, water, air, forest, when you're destroying the weak children, not the guilty or the debtors of a country? I think that's why I can say a few words about this law. Every normal country and every normal man will gladly accept this proposal because he is aware that this sky above us is the sky that belongs to all the people of this world. The detachment of this traffic at the most should bring benefits to all the inhabitants of this planet, except for some of whom the sky serves to spread the carpets of bombs to the innocent population. This torment experienced by Serbia has been perfected, and even after those criminal acts that took place in the 78 days continued with their policy. What did they want to make of Serbia? They wanted to put in us a virus called Stockholm syndrome, which makes those who have suffered an evil start to love their executioner and admire him. In this way they try to make subjects of us day and day, to create a people who will justify their evil, their misdeeds. Unfortunately, among us are those who justify it and say that we are to blame for this aggression, that we are to blame for these crimes. And why should we be to blame? Because we proudly defended our country, because we protected our families, because we acted the way every normal man behaves, every host who defends his own breast. We didn't go to bomb England, or America, or France, or any of those countries that showed up in the real light of what they were like in those moments. But our destiny is like that, and we have to be strong, we have to be wise and smart, and we have to save in the future for generations that will come to Serbia the way we got it and make it even more beautiful. Serbia is a country of brave, smart and wise people who owe no one anything. Everything we've created, everything we have, is created in the blood and sweat of our ancestors, and we have to act the way they behave and we have to preserve what we have in order to allow generations that come to live normally and work in these places. The entry into the European Union is, as one game, let's say, not to be too rude, one great challenge to which we must respond wisely. They offer us nothing, but they condition us with—take it or leave it. There will always be new conditions ahead of us, and they will constantly ask us to meet some new and new requirements. That is why it is up to us now to decide on Serbia's future to adapt in a wise and smart way to negotiations and agreements with them and to do no harm to our generations, or to our country to Serbia. Many colleagues have mentioned crime, corruption, or simply, what a Serb would say, a thief. I don't want to mention names. I don't want to mention the names of our thieves or these thieves that aren't ours. When I say ours, I mean thieves from Serbia's territory, but there are thieves outside Serbia from other countries who steal us maybe more perfiduously than these domestic thieves of ours. But I can especially tell this one of ours -- it's a waste if Serbia has any damage and ever, in a year, whether or not in two, in five, ten, it's going to come at the expense of what you're doing to Serbia. I hope that the competent institutions will have enough time and time and wisdom to bring anyone who has done evil to Serbia, who has broken the law, to the place set by these laws. In Serbia, there have been many cases in history that in certain difficult times during times of war, suffering and crisis, some people have become enormously rich, but they have had one feature that I can say was positive. They created something out of that capital and left a well - being for the benefit of it. And so these tycoons today, as they call them, could have that in mind and they could leave some legacy, something for future generations. Belgrade is short, so to be modest, one dozen bridges. There's a lot of people who could make all ten by themselves, but make one bridge at a time, to wash off their own noises for as long as possible. Have them build schools, hospitals, colleges, there's a lot Serbia deserves to get back at her, because they've been scratching and taking away from her without a shred of shame. If you do not know and are not prepared to judge yourself, you will be free to judge you today and tomorrow or to be judged by the competent institutions. Do not fight each other's arguments by force, but fight by force of argument. Give something smart from you to come out, to see Serbia too, to think about it and to benefit Serbia. Many of us resent that we are facing east, towards Russia. It is the majority of the dilemma that exists since Serbia, even there is that saying that we are a crossroads between the East and the West, but it is no wonder that we are no longer facing the East. Ever since it's been sacred and century, the people have realized that from the east comes light, that the sun is born in the east, that the east is something that gives us hope. The West somehow makes us aware that the sun is setting in the west, that there is darkness, that there is something dark, insecure. I hope that we will all be wise and smart enough and that each one, according to his abilities, will provide as much as his opportunities allow. We must take care primarily of education and health, because these are two basic pillars of every country. We used to send our children, our youth, around the world to teach schools and universities, to gather knowledge and to return with these knowledge to Serbia and to learn to give gifts to Serbia and to our people. Today we do something the opposite, we destroy education, and here we teach our youth, we educate our generations, and when they complete certain knowledge instead of using those knowledge for Serbia's well-being, we let them go beyond, to go to other countries and to make the grace of what they have learned in Serbia available to others. We must therefore make sure that our health care system is strengthened, that everyone who works in that education system can live with dignity and can develop and provide them with future generations. There's always someone in your life that you have to deal with, who you might be ugly to say you're at war with, but you've got some kind of duel. Serbs are one knighted nation that has done all its fighting in a knightly way, in a fair way and never in history have we humiliated our opponent. We won, but we didn't humiliate him. Let's just remember the Balkan War, the war with Bulgarians. Bulgarians are someone who has done huge atrocities, especially in the south and southeast of our country, but we have been human enough, we have interrupted a few days of war facts so that a convoy of Red Cross assistance that was meant for the wounded of the Bulgarian army, which at that time did not even have hospitals and we have given them one hospital in good faith then, after a few days we continued that war. That's how we're supposed to behave today. We don't need our opponents to humiliate, to be cruel to them, but to defeat each other with our own knowledge, intelligence, and wisdom. Dear colleagues, thank you for putting up with me this short time. I hope I wasn't too boring, and I'll try to be shorter next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4425	I thank you, Professor Ljubisa Stojmirović. The word has a National MP, Dusan Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4426	Thank you. The Honorable President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, in the day of the vote, I will support this draft of the law because I believe that based on everything I've heard and could read, its application will greatly improve both the quality and standards of air traffic in our country. In 2013, the government of Serbia and the president focused special attention on the development of our airports and created conditions for faster economic development and for the arrival of necessary investments in our country. As a Chacanin, I can remind the public that President Aleksandar Vukic opened the Morava airport in Brodjevci on June 28th 2019 at the border between Chačka and Kraljevci and thus connected Cačak with Europe and the Kingdom, but also the entire Moravički, Zlatiborski and Raški district. From there he soon flew and the first plane to Vienna where I had the opportunity to be a passenger on that historic flight and in about an hour and a half we landed in Vienna and soon thereafter our citizens continued to use that line. Already on 18 August 2019, President Aleksandar Vukic opened the highway "Milos Veliki". To the joy of all of us in Western Serbia, we have created a new era of economic development for all of Western Serbia. We've laid the foundation for the future that we're building tomorrow for our children. We created the basis for all the good that comes, we fulfilled the decades-old dream of all of us from western Serbia. What was interesting while we were celebrating that individuals, former members of the yellow tycoon regime, were grieving at the time, and at the same time, Dragan Gilas visited his branch of Dveri in Čačka and at a joint conference with accomplice Bosko Obradovic took advantage of the opportunity for the Cacans to teach us that we do not need highways and airports. He particularly stressed the highway from Cačka to Kruševec, which we also look forward to because Cacak has now become a highway more accurate highway intersection thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and without a small centre of Serbia in the part. What is interesting is that at the conference, Bosko Obradovic did not respond who had asked him before, what about overpaid activities at the Adi Bridge in Belgrade. That's what all of us citizens were interested in. For that answer, we remained deprived. Why was that bridge paid half a billion euros when the same bridge in France that is three times longer and has seven times as many sawmills cost 100,000 euros less? Where's the money today? If it weren't for those secret accounts in Hong Kong, Mauritius or some other accounts we don't know about yet, hopefully we'll find out in the next period. That's what we Cacanians needed to answer, and all of Western Serbia, from Pomorava, from central Serbia responded to Bosca Obradovic, Gilasu in next year's elections. They clearly said that we also need roads and industrial zones and airports and hospitals and schools, and that we do not need politicians like him and Gilas, and Jeremic, and Tadic, and all those who, during their power and 12 years for Cačak and our environment, did not invest anything, nor were they interested, even opposed to building this road from Belgrade to Cačka which today created opportunities for us to come to foreign investments such as Forverk Drivetek, Eldizi and the other companies, Leoni in the Kingdom and so on, not to list them now. This was voted by the citizens by the absolute majority and made clear to Bosca and Gilas what they think of their policy. There's no reason for them to worry about what we need and what we want at all. During Gilas's rule and after his government in Cacak, there remained a dump on the surface of 12 hectares just a few kilometers from the city center, 200 million dinars to this country and this nation cost the removal of that dump, because they never dealt with the causes but only the consequences. That is why I say once again, they do not have to worry about our concerns, there is anyone to take care of us, our President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia who have managed to solve the problems they have left for us so far, because unlike Gilas and his, we from the SNS want to leave solutions and results, and not problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4427	I thank the MP Dusan Radojevic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4428	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers Momirovic, irony, fate, coincidence, but a common European aviation area on March 24th in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A common European airspace theme on a day that Serbia does not remember for any good. On this day 22 years ago, the entire airspace above Serbia-Montenegro was cleaned from any form of air, civil traffic and became the playground and terrain of the largest military force the world has ever seen. It has become an airspace of Serbia-Montenegro where aircraft and NATO missile systems have been playing on, destroying and killing everyone in front of them, and even children, Serbia is marking it, and here it is today in this parliament. What is regrettable is that Montenegro did not mark this date again on today and that families of the dead, fighting associations and political representatives are not allowed to mark this date with dignity. I hope that changes, too. A lot has been said about today and in this Parliament, a lot has been written by important and smart people in Serbia, both in the previous period and since this morning, I have followed closely, but one text that has been written today has attracted my attention in particular. I'm not a Novosadjan, but that's the text of the newly-sad mayor, Mr. Milos Vučević. I'm not going to quote it whole, but one piece remains particularly striking. Says the New Sad Mayor - among other things we have not surrendered, we have lost hope that our Serbia will shine again in its beauty and glory, and here we are today, that hope is our reality. And here's the law we're talking about today, and it's real. He's the product of our hopes and our struggles since that time. It is not simple, and then I would say that this law is neither fate nor irony nor coincidence, this law is work, work since 2014. The work to find Serbia again in the society of those who today make up the most important factors in European aviation. It was a long job and a long way to go and a good time to compare Serbia on 24 March 1999 and 24 March this year, and then, it became clear words of the mayor of Novi Sad. But to cross that path, a serious political engine was needed. The political engine was the one that drags Serbia forward today, the president of the state. We in Parliament and you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia are assistants in this great business. Today's president of the country has become a political engine in development only of the Republic of Serbia, has become a serious political engine for the region, especially for our people living in the region. Since we're talking about air traffic today, here's an example and evidence of this in Trebinj. You are in Serbia today the most responsible man to implement this project, however you look at it. Today you're still talking about the airport in the Ponikvas, and I understand what you said is difficult today to make decisions because you don't know what kind of aircraft traffic will be like in the future, and that's one perfectly reasonable thinking. Believe me, when it comes to the Trebinj airport, things are very different. The airport in Trebinj is not just a link, and it is not just a place for passengers to come and who the passengers will go from, it is not just a place where the planes will land and who the planes will fly from. The airport in Trebinj is much more than that. The airport in Trebinj is a permanent identity link between the southern Republika Srpska, especially Herzegovina and its queen, Serbia. A lasting identity link between the region of Herzegovina, in which the noun of Serbia has never been pronounced from the mother's noun, as long as it is related to the south of Republika Srpska and Herzegovina, it is also a link to the north of Montenegro, especially Niksic and the environment. Therefore, the importance of the airport exceeds anything that the economy, tourism, traffic carry with them. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. I ask you not to forget this fact in the realization of this project, because this project is what makes a difference between all other airports and all other airline lines that Serbia today has with the region and the world, that you have in mind that this is the political idea of today's president of the state, that for this idea you have received support in this House, that it is in the budget for this year, and everything else, Mr. Minister, it is up to you. We, the people of Serbia, our people in the region, look at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4429	I thank the People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, don't mind me, but I think that every fellow member of my Parliament, on this day, on the 24th of March 2021, must mention one criminal aggression, the works of the international community that has been hit by Serbia, in which more than 3,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia were killed, eighty or ninety children, with the hope that through the work of various commissions we will determine how many people have indeed been killed and how many our children were killed, because when the child was killed by a bomb, it was not killed, but executed. We have no right to remain silent. We have an obligation to keep talking about it and to teach our descendants that Serbia is not guilty of such a criminal act of the international community, that it did nothing to be bombed, to be destroyed and its citizens executed. I apologize for speaking a little beyond the subject, it is the regulation of air traffic, but in 1999, only death, destruction and horror came to us from the air. The damage that's caused is huge. Some say 30 billion euros, dollars, direct damage, some say over 100 billion indirect. Let them investigate it, it's likely that once that data is fully available, and it takes time to do all that. After the crime, only a little more than a year later, there was a change in the regime in Serbia and that is one of the reasons why we are talking about it today. We were forbidden to talk about criminal aggression. I'd already get a warning from the chairman if I hadn't been taken away from you and the word only if I mentioned anything about it. We were forbidden to remember our dead. It was forbidden to talk about who we were, what we were and where we came from. We were forbidden to say it was a crime. It was to be forgotten, and the Serbian people and the Serbian state slowly died and disappeared. Well, I don't know if, in a material sense, the damage Serbia has survived, but only in material, human lives are immeasurable and the greatest loss, is Serbia's greater damage to criminal aggression, bombing, or is Serbia's greater material damage during the former regime? You have also touched the traffic infrastructure and capital investments that are yet to take place in the Republic of Serbia in your presentation. I have to ask you something - did you ask what they think about it? Paul Petrovic, how does he feel about it? I'd like to hear it. You know, you're now responsible in a certain way and for our work, you have a very significant ministry, our national air carrier, so check it out. During the government of Pavl Petrovic, Mirko Cvetkovic, Nikezic, how many aircraft were available annually in the JAT of the time. What I heard, of the seven "Boings", only three could fly, were not completely correct but could fly. Why am I saying that? Because when we had a debate on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we had a whole chapter on the opinion of the Fiscal Council on the draft budget law that was related to the business of Er Serbia. I kept wondering why so much hostile attitude and the Fiscal Council and the President of the Fiscal Council, as they call it, Uncle Paul, I'm not getting into it. Then I took a look at the president's biography of the fiscal council. Are you familiar with Ces Mekon? I don't know if it is, you came from business to ministerial office and I think it's quite all right, but "Ces Mekon" was some consulting firm from which, apart from Nikezic, Mirko Cvetkovic, who was later the director of the Privatisation Agency, and co-founder was Pavle Petrovic. Let's see why so many attacks both on "Er Serbia" and on governments, since the first government of Aleksandr Vukic in 2014, and on all governments so far and the procedures brought by the Government and brought by the President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic in the past period. Here you mentioned today that Serbia is starting a new investment cycle on the construction of various traffic infrastructures and that is a welcome move. And no one in their right mind is going to say it's not supposed to be done. One of the reasons, not only the primary one, is that Serbia improves in an infrastructure sense, the secondary one is that it encourages its economy to survive these measures that we have. If you had said that last year, you would have supported the Fiscal Council, but on one condition, it would not have been possible to pay off those famous 100 euros to every adult citizen who wanted it. Now that you're a minister, you know yourself that you can't start a new investment cycle overnight. It takes time for projects to be done, to expropriate land, to establish public interest, the value of projects and all that. Under some normal circumstances, it would take three or four years, in an emergency, like the Corona epidemic, we don't have time for such a luxury, not more than a year, a year and a half. But, Minister, I have to ask you, what will our citizens do and survive in that year, year and a half? What's our economy gonna do for a year and a half? Because we've defended the economy, because we've defended our employees, our pensioners, we've been attacked by the Fiscal Council, and you will, be assured. You know what, if the gentlemen of the Fiscal Council could, they would sell airspace above Serbia. It's not that hard. It's enough to sell only flight control and they'd say, no problem, better run by Solak, Gilas or someone else than the state. They would sell "Er Serbia", but the new owner of the company has no obligation to Serbia anymore. Whether planes fly or fly out of Serbia will be decided by the new owner. I don't know who would bring medical aid to the vaccine when it was most necessary. I didn't know the fiscal council to fly, probably couldn't. No one could. Well, if anyone could, they'd charge us dearly. When you look at what they were doing over "Ces Mekon", then you see everything and you connect things as they go, because "Ces Mekon" took part in the board of directors of Agrobanks. I don't know if you've met her, it's an affair when she disappeared close to a billion euros in state money. So Ces Mekon took part in the management of Azotar. There again, Mirko Cvetkovic, Grandpa Pavle, as they call him, Nikezic, etc., along with Sasa Dragin, were arrested, arrested Nikezic and the team, it seems to me, for some five million euros of abuse, and Azotara, who they privatised, was returned to the state, with debts, of course. That's how Paul and Nikezic do it, only with debts they pay back. They also participated in the Telecom Task Force. That's what SNS prevented in 2011. Otherwise, they were planning on giving our Telekom a present. And a very important thing, Telekom was much cheaper because in the long lease there was no one else to Solak and Gilas, so that cheap lease affected the total value of Telekom, all the optics, all the optical cables for cable signals were in their lease. Don't be surprised then that there are a couple of hundred, maybe half a billion euros missing from Serbia, which took place during 2010, 2011 and 2012. Well, there's no place they've been. Let me remind you, the Fiscal Council, this time not Nikezic, was president of the NBS Council. I didn't know the course at that time was as good as it was today. And, of course, Grandpa Paul was also the Assistant Minister of Finance, at the very time when the tax on use, holding and carrying goods was introduced. That's what I tell the citizens, they don't know what it is most of the time. Well, that's that gun tax nobody else brought in for you but Paul and God's derrick. That's what we called him here in the National Assembly. Now, such people are attacking us and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic why there is "Er Serbia". They also attacked a concession for Nikola Tesla Airport. They also attacked airports that were trained in Nis and the King. They say -- it's not good for financial stability and security. Well, it's best if we don't do anything, that nothing flies, that we hand everything over to strangers, and that we have nothing. They would not be foreigners, they would only be like that Ho who came from Hong Kong, who was brought by Vuk Jeremic to become the owners of Serbia, not the real investors who watch and make money, but also work and give a job. Now, I don't know, in a material sense, what damage is greater, in 1999 or in the former regime, with Serbia that we found and still, unfortunately, from those who represent as relevant, they are constantly getting some support. Mr. Minister, I'm sure we'll agree to certain duties on programming loans that will be raised by international institutions to realise all these projects you have planned, and that's something quite clear, visible, we all know what this is about and enters the percentage of the state's debt to GDP. Just, Minister, if you're funding something from current liabilities, so you don't make a planned income, and you made a commitment, is that a public debt? Yes, because you do. We didn't give you the authority to do that, but the state owes you. Anyone who asks what they're authorized to do, and the state is in debt to the first category, can't fool anyone, not to pay him, because he loses credit rating and credit rating in any relationship, and all investors run away from both that country and that state, whether domestic or foreign, anyway. You see, and that's where the Fiscal Council was building gymnastics, so we don't know how much the Gilas and Solak regime owed Serbia, which is close to 80%, 75% or 76%. When we discovered all the debts we had to serve, we had to raise loans to commercial banks to pay back the former regime's debts. You know how he reacted to that fiscal advice? He said pensions should be reduced further, public administration employees reduced by the number of employees means firing people from work, and what remains to be paid, that "Electroprivred Serbia" should be sold, that "Serbia" should be sold, that "Telecom" should be sold. Is it according to this model by which the Azotars were sold and all that was sold before? Probably by that. Why? They didn't get to ruin everything, just like they ruined JAT, which at that time had only three out of seven Boeing 737s who were in an annual state. These are all problems, Minister, which you will face in the coming period. I advise you that, no matter how many of you are attacked, you have goals that we started to achieve in 2014, together with Serbian President Alexander Vukic, to continue towards these goals. No matter what they say, the citizens will support you and praise you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4431	The word has a minister of construction, traffic and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4432	Dear Sir Arsic, I apologize for giving myself the right to speak after you, conditionally speaking. Thank you for reminding us of a billion euros from private banks, Agrobanks and others that have created a commitment to this famous hocus-pocus gymnastics, a hocus-pocus privatisation somewhere missing, and where we do not know. Some criminal proceedings are under way, but this definitely went into public debt, as you said 78% was when the President of the Republic took over this country and took over the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to get out of my portfolio a little bit, when you've already opened up this problem in such a good way, I think it should be noted that the unemployment rate at that time was 28%. It's 9% today. Does anyone know what the average salary was then, and what is it now? What was the minimum wage, what is it now? Here I would only allow myself to correct you or give someone my opinion that is a little different from yours. You know, they wouldn't privatise "Er Serbia" or JAT, they would destroy that company. That was the purpose of privatization, that the company simply disappears, that we no longer have a national company. This has not happened, and today we have a national company that is the strongest in the region, and when the pandemic passes, I am confident, with the preparations we are working on, with investments in infrastructure, it will be one European air traffic leader. I'm sure of it. I'd like all people to remember these words and see you in a few years, see where "Er Serbia" will be, because I really believe in these people. I know how much we've invested in their knowledge, how much progress these people have made. We're flying to 61 destinations today. How many companies in Europe, I wish I had that analysis right now, I don't know exactly how many companies in Europe have such live air traffic? You said rightly, indeed, infrastructure projects like this can't be built in one year, they can't be built in two years. You know, sometimes I think it was easy to build highways in 2010, design, form a team, when no highway worked, when there were no investments. No highway ever worked back then. Only talk was then about the Belgrade-Cacchak highway and 2010, and 2005, and 1995 and 1985. It became like a light story, like a Belgrade subway. And there was no problem. Today they say there's a problem. To tell you the truth, there are a lot of problems. Only Valjevo, which we visited yesterday, Valjevo-Lajkovac, fast traffic, 850 catastrian plots on the territory of the town of Valjevo and 550 Lykovac. We massacred people in the catastra, everyone got sick, so we sent people from Belgrade and they got sick. We've barely been able to draw up technical documentation, create conditions for building that highway. Is there a problem? He's got a lot of problems. Of course we have problems when we're working on 12 highways and fast cars, when you're working on five big bypasses. Some of these bypasses are bigger than highways built in the region. Serbia today is in the biggest investment cycle. I'm going back again, yes, the highway can't be built in a year, it can't be built in two years, it can't be prepared to work on its construction. That's why I'm a little sensitive when, like you, you've given me a lot of meaning and flattering me, thank you for that, about the importance of my ministry and myself personally. I have to say, after all, I'm just one little bolt in this government and this political system that's building these highways. These are projects initiated by the President of the Republic, some personally initiated, and some pushed them to finish. I am very pleased with this role, and I will do my best to really speed up and that in a few years we have the best travel, rail, air, water infrastructure in the region. Once again, I apologize for giving myself the right to address after you and thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4433	I thank Minister Momirović. It's a good thing we have an active minister like this today and he's responding to the MPs and he's responding to their statements. Next is the National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4434	Thank you, President-in-Office, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Ministers Momirovic and his associates, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today on 24 March. On today, 1999, a criminal NATO aggression against the Republic of Serbia began. On January 9th 1996, Milica Rakic was born. On April 17th 1999, a NATO bomb was killed. She was three years old. She was sitting on a costume in a bathroom on the second floor of her family's house in Batajnica. Death was instantaneous. Milica Rakic is one of 79 killed children in a criminal NATO aggression that we must never forget. The NATO aggression, in addition to killing over 2,000 Serbian citizens, of which 79 children, has caused huge material and immaterial losses to our country. You yourself, ministers, said in your excellent presentation that about 25,000 residential buildings, 60 bridges, 300 factories, destroyed or damaged 190 schools and 20 hospitals. It seems to me that material damage to some data and about 100 billion dollars. Serbia is still recovering from material and immaterial damage and these life-loss that we can never recover from when it comes to this criminal, shameful NATO aggression. A few years after NATO aggression and after Friday's changes, the destruction of Serbia's economy continued by the arrival of DOS parties to power, arrival of both Dragan Dilas and Boris Tadic in their positions. Air traffic and airports and businesses have continued to be destroyed. They're not built, and if some bridges are built, they're built according to the variants "3 in 1" one build, you put three in your pocket. That's how Dragan Gilas did it. Now the responsible government is doing the right thing, the government of the Republic of Serbia, you as the minister leading the vast ministry, President Vukic. Here are the results, and I would like to convey to you the greetings concerning you, ministers, and to the government of Serbia and President Alexander Vukic of my native Trebinj. During yesterday and today, I received several phone calls where the people of eastern Herzegovina thanked the Republic of Serbia for caring for the Serbian people in eastern Herzegovina, which is being built by the airport in Trebinj, as you, ministers, also told my colleague Vujadinović, Trebinje, who is both at the airport and how strategically important both for the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people, and I also thank my colleague Dabic, who told Trebinje, and here I agree with him, that he is one of the most beautiful Serbian cities. On the other hand, we had a situation shortly after October 5th when the case was working, as regards telephone traffic and many other things, Serbia and the then-SRJ under DOS and DS, interrupted special ties between Serbia, SRJ and Republika Srpska, so when you wanted to invite a close relative, friend or godfather who lives in Republika Srpska, you could no longer get it at 059, but thanks to DOS you had to call abroad, to type in +385, and then call in the phone number. It only speaks of the relationship between DOS authorities, DS, Dilas, Tadic and their associates to the Serb people in Republika Srpska and says Serbia's leadership today cares about the Serb people. Despite the crisis caused by the coronary virus, money is being deployed properly, it's being invested. Serbia merges, as far as roads are concerned, east with the west, north with the south. It's built all over Serbia. I don't know right now exactly how many miles of highways have been built and how much is being invested all over Serbia. I will be free to quote the blessed Patriarch Irine, who last year, when we celebrated Christmas holidays together on Vračar, January 2020, before this monster of the Coronary Virus, he praises President Vukic and the Government of Serbia, saying, "Here, let me single out one information regarding traffic. When I was a young man, it took me four or five hours to take the train from my Chuck to Belgrade, and now the youth arrives in an hour by a modern highway." So those words of the gentlely rested patriarch speak enough of the responsibility of both the state and our leadership. On the other hand, I just want to tell the citizens -- can you imagine what everything could be built and what you said to the ministers and my fellow MPs, for 619m euros that Dragan Gilas kidnapped from Serbian citizens? How many airports, how many buildings, how many hospitals, how many factories, how many roads? A lot of money was stolen, but I have to be honest, Dragan Gilas had a certain kind of investment. He also had investments when it comes to roads and airports. On a regular basis when he went to Nikola Tesla Airport, he bought airline tickets so that he could carry his million in suitcases across various countries in the region, on various exotic islands. He also had investments in travel infrastructure by regularly paying tolls when he took the highway to leave the Republic of Serbia, reaching Romania, Switzerland, Moldova and other countries to leave his suitcases with millions of stolen money from Serbian citizens in his accounts. Fortunately, the time has passed. We can love our Serbia. We, MPs from the "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", as you in the Serbian Government, as well as President Vukic love Serbia. That's why we treat her so responsibly. But to love Serbia means to protect and strengthen Serbia, not to steal from the state and the people, as Dragan Gilas did. In the end, I want my presentation to end with the words of President Aleksandar Vukic on this day: "Serbia does not forget. To live in a proud and free Serbia." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4435	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4436	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is, of course, March 24th, every day when we remember the criminal, not the ordinary criminal bombing of the NATO Pact, not just the SRJ then, but above all, the Republic of Serbia. First of all, the Republic of Serbia has been a victim of NATO aggression, has been a victim of those who have done everything to bring Serbia down, humiliate, kidnap part of Serbia's territory, the foundation of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, and give their mesmices, to the Cypriot terrorists in order to achieve their drawn interests. This is why it is a sad day for Serbia, but not only for Serbia, this is a sad day for all of Europe, for all of Europe, for the old Europe that has its well-known European values. The question of how many in this cruel world of capitalism remain in these old good European values that we are calling upon and to which we rely, which we respect, which we follow, which we stand as a society when only in Europe today we remember all of this and mourn our victims, those innocent children who have been killed just because they are Serbian children. Milica Rakic is not alone, but has become a symbol of the people's suffering, I would say in the 1990s. The aggression against Serbia has been done from several directions always, inside and outside. It was only unfortunately that we could see this aggression especially from the inside of 2000 when the main cleaning came. One of them attacked the outside under the pretext that a non-democratic regime should be torn down. Then came the alleged democratic forces that need to finish what the NATO Pact started, which is, in fact, a key clean-up of the state from money, from capital and from people. From the people by robbing the state, stealing money and leaving Serbia as a country in the heart of Europe with no perspective for the people who were born in it. Of course, it creates a perspective only for tycoons and tycoon children. In it to create a perspective only for criminals, drug dealers, for killers, that's exactly what Serbia looked like after 2000, regardless of what some of us expected Serbia would look much better then. I admit, at the age of 16, I myself had far greater and better expectations than those famous, famous five-octobaric changes. As a man, you see everything that has happened in years ahead of us then, and you, as a private entrepreneur, must have had certain expectations that Serbia will end sanctions, etc. Open up to the world, that it'll all look different. But it's always "but" at the end, and especially "but" that hurt our economy, our state-owned, social property that's been torn apart in pieces, that's been stolen from those who've been going in worn, torn shoes until then, eventually ended up in "Prad" shoes, and I don't know what everything, from thousands of euros. Some of them have expensive pitchforks, some of them have helicopters today, airplanes, trucks. Some are like Dragan Gilas, I can say freely, the greatest evil that has appeared in Serbia for Serbian finances, the economy in the last 50 or 100 years. We had no greater evil than Dragan Gilas. He said, as Mrdic said, in suitcases of not millions, hundreds of millions of euros from this country, so he gets confused, I can sort of understand that he wasn't sure if he was really money on Mauritius or maybe he mixed up with some of the other exotic destinations where he was going, and I believe that every year he goes to some exotic places to fly, because he has to spend so much money that was robbed of this people, so he doesn't know where, so he forgot about the millions that went to Mauricias somewhere, so he mixed up that the bank no longer exists, he doesn't. There's all that. All this was well explained in the previous days, and it is evident that investigative journalism has done its part. Of course, Finance Minister Sinisha Mali explained this in a very nice way to Serbian citizens who had the opportunity to convince themselves now and through evidence, concrete evidence, not only has there been some hundreds of millions that were taken away, so someone was spending it. We have bills, papers, documents that show where your accounts are, where that money is. Now we see how he was carried out, how he bought his own companies on his own, which is why he was doing it. You know, there are a lot of people who each of us know who do some private business. Why would I buy a company on my own? Why would I take money out of my country to some mauricios in Moldova, and I don't know where? Well, I have my own country. Isn't it more moral if you are engaged in public affairs, politics, to be Prime Minister, or President of this country, Minister or MP, whatever tax you pay in the country you live in, to pay taxes in the country where you ask people to support? How are you going to ensure this people anything if you avoid taxing in that country to pay from whom both roads and airports and railway infrastructure and jobs are financed and everything that raises people's quality of life? If there's nothing to charge taxes in this country, then there's not even everything I'm talking about, then there's no better life. It's just, if there's no tax money we can't expect better health care, no stronger army, no better equipped police, then we can't expect any prosperity. It is through this way of treating the state money, the money of the Serbian citizens, and let someone freely correct me if I am wrong, I am convinced that I am not wrong, that Dragan Gilas is in the right direction to show that he is again, God forbid, that he has been able to treat the money of Serbian citizens. Not only those numerous projects in the city of Belgrade we talked about a million times. About trams that couldn't use that Shining infrastructure, they had an old one, so first they had to do the infrastructure and then buy new trams. So the house must be built from the ground, not from the roof. He didn't care. It was only important to buy something, because there's a good opportunity to get some million and that was important back then. It's a nice new tram, but it can't go away if the infrastructure wasn't designed for it. It's nice to have new things, but let's see what's the price of what we buy. Did Hungary buy the same trams at a lower price than in Serbia? It is nice to have various replicas, but to what they will serve, let them bring some profit to Serbian citizens to see the benefit of it, not to finally see ordinary rags. It's nice to have a Pazl town on Vozdovac, right, my colleague Mirkovic, but that he serves children on Voždovac. Today you have dozens of parks in Belgrade, which the SNS government, I say, led by President Alexander Vukic, has done for these children. Dozens of parks, but safe parks. Not parks where you can't take a kid, so they laugh at us when we talk about parks, that's very funny to them. By the way, when parents go to take their child to the park to go play without hurting that child there and it doesn't really cost more than it's worth. So today the SNS government is operating, and so is Sinisa Mali's mayor, while he was, so the debt of the city of Belgrade from a billion to 200 million has fallen to 600m euros at that time and is falling debt. That's why we don't have a 28% unemployment rate right now, like you said, but we have an unemployment rate less than 9%. That's why you have a record high level of employment in Belgrade, as it's never been before. So today when someone says, there is no work, there is work. Wherever you go out on the street some privates are looking for a worker, but educated, trained. That is why dual education is also why much has changed in Serbia in the years behind us, where we have a responsible man like Aleksandar Vukic headed Serbia. So today Serbia is not the country we're talking about the defeated country, but the country that for the first time in the past 100 years led by Aleksandra Vukic has learned and continues to learn to win, but that in those victories it also remembers Milica Rakic and all those heroes of its victories, its exploits as great as those pilots who died in the aggression of the NATO Pact, all the heroes we can mention today, we can raise them monuments, we can make documentary films, all those martyrs from Jasenovac, whom someone was ashamed of, we can mention them and talk about it. It's the right way, it's the basis for you not to forget yourself, and if you don't forget yourself then the future won't forget you. Long live Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4437	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4438	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today is a day we must never forget. Today's date is the beginning of a terrible crime committed against a small country and a people who have tried and fought for their freedom, for the survival of their people. What I am particularly pleased with today’s presentation of fellow Members of the people is that we call this act a real name. It's aggression. It's a crime. There's no military intervention, how the yellow tycoons were talking about it while they were in power and trying to make the topic taboo among our citizens. It is no longer a taboo topic, but a subject that is openly spoken of, discussed and because of our future generations, we must never forget what happened then and for the next 78 days, what unfortunately problems we have been going through, what crimes have been committed. I was a boy then, fourth grade elementary school, and I remember perfectly that day, since my younger brother was on a trip to Bukovica Banja near where the first bombs fell. Eternal glory and thanks to all those who gave their lives in defense of our country's freedom, and I am glad that we today remember heroes who not only defended the airspace, but were defending our country's territory. We also remember those heroes from Koshar who prevented the invasion of troops from the neighbouring country from fighting on the one hand against terrorists who were on AP territory, and on the other hand outside our country's borders. We must never forget them. We should always talk about them and I'm glad we're talking about it today. What is the characteristic of that period is that we have shown one of our qualities that we often talk about, which is that Serbian int, which you, the respected ministers, have spoken of. We then defied the 78 days of NATO's aggressors. We went out into the streets, we defended our bridges, we defended our facilities and their plan to simply destroy the morale of our army in a week, to reduce its combat equipment, and to break our people's resistance. What's very important is that we still show that stubbornness today. This is precisely the result, the economic results we talked about yesterday and the days before and about which we are talking about today, and all thanks to the policy implemented by President Aleksandar Vukic, who is being conducted by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and you as part of their team, which is to raise the infrastructure of our country, raise the economy, increase the employment of our citizens and work to keep young people in Serbia, to live and work there. So in addition to the 320km of highways we've made, in addition to the renovation of the railway infrastructure, where we're going to significantly advance it, one of the important segments for the development of the economy is certainly air traffic and that infrastructure we're talking about today. The Honorable Minister and my colleagues have noted what these results are, and I would like to make it clear for the public as well. While the yellow tycoons of "Nikola Tesla", which I will remind, in their time was the only functional airport, "Constantin the Great" was in fact only an airport located on geographical maps and perhaps someone who was in Nis that knew about it, they used the moss to go to exotic destinations such as Maldives, Mauricias, Hong Kong, Switzerland, some went touristic to fly, some went in business to open their accounts, to rob the money they previously robbed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and of course to turn that money around so that while they were performing public functions they could become rich and create themselves a future without worrying about Serbia's children's future. What was important to them was that circle of two, their associates to meet their personal goals. The arrival of SNS into power has invested significant resources in the development of the airline industry, I'm talking about the JAT company. Unfortunately, at the time of their government, we had texts like this that we could see. Here, specifically, it says here – JAT nailed to the ground. That was the result of their policy work. They succeeded in the sixth oldest company in Europe, which had existed since 1927, to nail the country, to cut their fleet down, as the esteemed counterpart Kebara said, to six aircraft that could fly, from a vast fleet that existed, to sell out planes. But it wasn't enough for them. In 2005, they deployed the company into even smaller companies, thus preventing the JAT Erviz, which then worked and worked at all, because there were disputes between the companies themselves regarding the financing and maintenance of the planes themselves. Coming to the power of the SNS, that problem is solved. Today we have "Er Serbia" as one successful company, which has a really large fleet, which Kebara also spoke of, which now has 40 destinations on which their planes travel and during their business have managed to double the number of passengers they have transported. Also, the importance of this company's business was seen during the period of this pandemic itself, when their planes, their pilots were those who went for very important help, let us remember, in China and other friendly countries that sent us help to successfully fight the coronary virus, but they were also at the service of our citizens who were in Paris, Prague, Bratislava and other destinations to go back home and that they could spend that time at home, where they had much better conditions for life and to fight the Coronal Virus. When it comes to the airport "Nikola Tesla", what I want to say is that in the period from 2013 to 2019, the number of passengers increased by 74% and the transport of goods increased by 140%. Otherwise, today's airport is under concession, as the Honored Minister said. It was a very wise and well-timed decision that was made, because, thanks to this concession, we will have enough resources to invest in further development of air traffic, in infrastructure development, in railway development, in the opening of new jobs, and on the other hand, it is a concessionary that will allow "Nikola Tesla" airport to continue to develop, to apply its successful business concept it uses at its other airports, and at the airport "Nikola Tesla" which will become an important regional centre when it comes to air traffic. Otherwise, we're talking about Constantin the Great Airport in Nis. As I was saying, that airport at the time of the yellow tycoon was just one location we could find on geographic maps and nothing more. It is now becoming a new regional airport that is developing, in which huge funds are being invested, and today the public enterprise "Serbia" is located in the city of Nis, which has a strategic goal of further developing our own air traffic, airports in Serbia and what I am pleased, that Mr. Minister announced that there will be new investments, new investments, the restoration of the Constantin Great airport itself, which will actually serve all of us proudly and which will be one important segment in the further development of the economy of that part of Serbia around Nis, i.e. southern, eastern and central Serbia. I am also glad that the airport "Rosulje" has been mentioned. By the way, you all know that I come from Kruševac and Rosulje Airport is a very important project for the development of the town's own economy. Otherwise, I will point out, because of the public, that the public company of Rosulje Airport was formed in 1995 and that, unfortunately, during the yellow tycoon, it was only used to embellish their party personnel and nothing more. So this company had three jobs. They did not seek to move the sports airport located in Kruševec, at the site of Rosulje, located in the village of Parunovac, to implement it properly. The conditions were only created in 2016, i.e. after the arrival of Mr. Bratislava Gasic as Mayor of Kruševec, who re-launched the idea, where the land expropriation process was completed at the location where the airport was scheduled and in 2017, intense investments and investments in the equipment of the area itself were launched, so that the newspaper could no longer write that, behold, Rosulje airport became some pasture or some meadow in which an airport should be found. No, I don't. There's a hangar now built, we've got a built infrastructure, we've got a set fire system. What is very important, Mr. Minister, during his visit to Krusevec, has agreed with the mayor new investments, 300 million dinars, which will be invested in the construction of the runway, not only will the airport be of sports character, but it is the very aim of the airport to help further develop the economy in Krusevec, i.e. as a new vision and transport of goods produced in Krusevec. I will note that thanks to Alexander Vukic, thanks to the SNS, Kruševac returned his status to the industrial city and today you have "Henkel", which operates and expands the capacity, "Cupper Tyres" or "Gudjir" which has now taken over the company, you have "Valvolin" which operates, you have re-produced production in "14". October", the chemical industry "Zupa" and a large number of small entrepreneurs who are developing because they are stimulated by the policy that Aleksandar Vucic leads to the development of entrepreneurship and business development. Realisation of this project is also very important for the citizens of Kruševec, but also for the region itself and for the further development of the industry itself. I am sure that on this path we will succeed and that this project, which I said, will be launched in 1995, will be successfully realised as an example of good practice and the realisation of the policy itself that we are implementing. In addition, colleagues also talked about Moravi Airport, which is very important. I'm sure it won't fit there. Absolutely, in the coming period, with a strategy for economic development, moderate regional development of the Republic, there will also be new locations where there is economic profitability for building such infrastructure that will help and develop tourism potentials, as well as the development of the economy itself. Otherwise, the agreement that lies here before us is very important in this particular segment where we will make our air traffic significantly more competitive in the region itself. In fact, as is said, when we talk about compliance with European regulations, air traffic, or that segment, is one that is most in line with European regulations, European standards and the adoption of this agreement, or the bill that is before us, it will help us to move forward with this principle, to continue to cover this segment, and to provide ourselves with a good starting position and a market fight for development not only of "Er Serbia" but also of other companies that operate in Serbia and which are of private character, but also of full use of our capacities, our airports and further development of our economy. In voting day, we will certainly, together with colleagues from the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic - For Our Children", but I am sure that other honourable fellow MPs will support this agreement, because this is an important segment for further fighting and for further development of our economy, our country and simply for the further successful fight for our children's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4439	Thank you. The remaining time for the parliamentary group is 36 minutes. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4440	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dr. Orlic, the respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since my colleagues have already said a lot about this agreement, allow only two sentences about it to be said, which is that I will support this agreement. Why? Because it is an ambitious project, because it is designed to become part of the EU's common aviation market before its application of the Western Balkans region before formal EU accession. That's one of the basic reasons besides many, which is why I'm going to support this part. Dear Vice President, Dr. Orlic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, due to today and tomorrow's date, I will not speak deliberately of our political opponents, and I would have much to say about them. At the beginning, let me thank the Institute of Serbian Culture in Leposavic, i.e. he had the strength to issue on today a congressman called "NATO aggression on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Republic of Serbia), to be remembered forever", in which world experts from Mexico, Russia, Greece, Slovenia wrote, and that I still do not count. Thank you to the Ministry of Education and former Minister Sarcevic for the assistance provided by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, Minister Vulin and Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Today, respected citizens of Serbia are turning 22 years old from NATO's criminal aggression to our homeland. In the 50 years of NATO's alliance, aggression against the SRJ is the first aggressive war that NATO has waged. The aggression was carried out following NATO's or US's decision without the mandate of the UN's SB, because it is very important to highlight it. All international law norms and the international relations system established by the UN Charter have been violated by the aggression. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, I must point out, some countries have participated contrary to the Constitution and the laws of their countries not to list them because of time. In 78 days, so from 24 March to 9 May 1999, NATO's combat aviation participated in our country, and what is very important, even NATO's auxiliary air force has committed aggression on our country. NATO's Air Force carried out 18,168 attacks involving 2,300 attacks and about 8,200 fire strikes. As far as NATO's auxiliary air force is concerned, it carried out 7,927 flights. Dear People's MPs, NATO launched 415,000 missiles, with about 22,000 tons of the most deadly cargo. About 350,000 cluster bombs have been launched. The aggression was carried out by about 1,040 planes and about 1,000 cruise missiles. NATO bombs and missiles killed 88 children, from 22 Albanian children to 14 years of age. The first innocent and helpless victim was the 17-year-old Senad Dacic from the village of Bresnik near Požega. On March 25, 1999, he encountered a tape bomb. The youngest victim was the nameless babies of Albanian nationality burned in the arms of the mother in Korisha and 11-month-old Serbian national girl Bojana Tosovic. She was killed on 11 April in the village of Merdare near Kursumlia in the arms of Father Bozin at the staircase of the family house. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, died three-year-old Milica Rakic on the stretch on April 17th 1999 at 21:30 in Batajnica during NATO aviation actions. Her death has become a symbol of the suffering, the suffering of the children of Yugoslavia in the brutal aggression of the NATO Pact. Our forces have shot down in 78 days the aggression of two planes, F-117A and F-16C, nine without pilots, 45 cruise missiles and four large missiles. In addition, the PSC forces, according to the assessment of the conditions and the elements of the shooting, have hit and probably damaged 36 more planes. General Clark, in his book called "Modern Warring", admitted that another Harrier plane crashed into the Adriatic Sea south of Ulcinj. Official data from the Yugoslav Army, New Messenger No. 5 since 2000, suggest that the anti-aircraft defence of the Yugoslav Army has shot down 61 fighter aircraft, seven helicopters, 30 drones and 338 cruise missiles. Dear citizens, honourable MPs, what do the United States say? The US Defence and Foreign Policy Institute announced on May 9th 1999 that NATO has already lost 36 planes, eight helicopters and six drones in a clash with the Yugoslav Army, I quote. For the sake of time, let me just say who condemned NATO's aggression against our country. UN Secretary General Kofi Annan only when he executed three-year-old Milica Rakic through a 17 April 1999 NATO missile, to say that in Yugoslavia, I quote -- the law and justice that have been violated, a quote was completed. China President Djang Ceming asked the United States to immediately stop the aggression in Yugoslavia, finished a quote. This was also requested by ladies and gentlemen by Belarus's President Aleksandar Lukashenko, the president of Ukraine Leonid Kuchma, Russia's President Boris Jelicin, the government of India and many other free-loving countries of the world. Serbia and the people of Serbia will remember that forever. OEPS Parliamentary Assembly Vice-President Billy Wimmer said, quote -- this is a black day for the world, the day when the UN Charter and international law were brutally trampled, finished quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia waged a defensive war in 1999. It was the defence of the country against the aggression of foreign NATO and armed rebellion within the country led by KLA terrorists on the territory of our southern Serbian province. And as he says in this Chamber, he remembers forever. Finally, our President Vukic, the Supreme Commander and the Supreme Commander is the creator of Serbia's military neutrality and defence capabilities, leads peace policy in the region and the world, a health policy in these pandemic conditions for our citizens and a policy for the accelerated modernisation of Serbia. Long live Serbia, lived by our president.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4441	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is 26 minutes. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4442	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certain that NATO is the aggression that took place against the then SRJ 22 years ago, one of perhaps the greatest shame of the modern Western world that has happened to them in the past few centuries. Seventy-nine days of homeless and brutal bombing, thousands of lives lost, ecological and economic disaster for our country, of course they don't allow us to forget these events from the near past and of course think hard about when we will be able to forgive and how long it will take for those who have done so, with whom we have to cooperate today when we can normalize and establish completely normal relationships and relationships that are at full capacity. What is even more important to note is that, apart from our country being bombed almost economically and devastated, it is that we, and today, after 22 years of being accused of genocide, are exposed to one huge, powerful offensive of Kosovo Albanians and their mentors around the world and, of course, we have to respond to all these accusations, although we are accused of genocide, as they say and promote in foreign centres of power, and rapes of over 20,000 women and various irregularities which, of course, are the fruit of their vast and powerful propaganda against our country, what we need to do is to look at our position and to strengthen it on a daily basis. This is what President Vucic did, given that in 2014, he inherited a country that, in terms of geopoliticalism, in terms of economic empowerment, in terms of strengthening our position at global level, did almost nothing and did almost nothing, because we had irresponsible politicians, people who didn't know what the state was, people who weren't definitely patriots and who were much more concerned about what would happen to our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, what would happen to our citizens, were dealing with how to fill their pockets and how to get the money they took away from domestic companies and from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What President Vukic did and what is most important today to say is that he created from Serbia a relevant partner for the whole world, a reliable country, but a country that is daily military, economic, social and in every other way empowering, a country that has its own integrity, which has its own red lines. He also showed it in Washington during the Washington negotiations and showed that Serbia is a country with dignity, which has its pride and no longer gives for rights, so apriori, to Western centres of power to do whatever they want here. Serbia has not been their dominant since 2014, Serbia is just a country that wants to co-operate, which wants to modernise, which wants to belong to that family of Western and developed European countries, but which wants to do so on an equal and partner basis. We didn't go to world geopoliticals at the time of 1999. I must point out that China is involved in this conflict. And China will not forget the bombing of their embassy during the bombing of the SR Yugoslavia. It seems that the Western world and the international community at the time wanted to wash their incompetence, since they had lost dyskines in the conflict in Africa, where in just a few months the lives of 800,000 people in the Rwandan conflict and in some other conflicts. Serbia is like a country that has proved to be perhaps the only freedom at that time and during that period throughout Europe, which wanted to preserve its integrity, its opinion and its positions, obviously paid for their incompetence, for their mistakes, and obviously, I have to admit that we paid for it because we are a small Christian Orthodox country in the heart of Europe. And I think that in world history it will remain written that in front of the fourth industrial revolution, in the heart of Europe, a country that has always been a free country, which has always been on the right side of history, which has fought with allies, defended world order, defended economic freedoms, defended human rights, defended political freedoms, was always the first to defend those rights, with huge sacrifices, and paid for everything the West had as mistakes in those 90s. We could see how these adventures of theirs ended in the Middle East and in other parts of the world, where no such intervention was born with fruit. Unfortunately, I also have to say that our country did not have any friends at the time. We thank everyone for the statements, on written, oral support, but the difference between Serbia then and Serbia in 2021 that Vucic made Serbia a country that has reliable partners and friends, who invest their capital here, who are willing to cooperate with us in the field of defence, to sell us the good and the best possible weaponry, because simply how powerful you are today, how powerful your economy is today, how successful you are to provide jobs, so much will be your power of deterring and your integrity and position not only at regional level, but at all levels, both in Europe and globally. Finally, to say that Vukic introduced our politics after so many years something that is of strategic importance, which is a culture of memory. Today, we are not ashamed to say that it is Serbia's strategic interest to preserve our people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, to co-operate with their institutions, to defend and protect the interests of our people wherever they live. As much as someone is talking about us talking today about a Serbian world, about some new Vucic doctrine, about the Serbian world, I am not ashamed to say, although this doctrine does not exist, there is only protection of state and national interests, protection of the Serb people, it does not endanger anyone, it just shows that Serbia finally has the dignity to show and demonstrate the rights that other peoples and other countries around the world have. I think that's what Alexander Wolfe definitely did. To finish, in the end, respected ministers, as far as air traffic is concerned, as far as all these infrastructures are concerned, all you've been doing in the past few months is simply something that follows the policy, objectives and strategy of President Alexander Vukic to improve that so-called. solid infrastructure. You as someone who comes from a tourist business, who is one of the perhaps most liberal economists and economic views in this country, which implies and promotes the strengthening of the market, strengthening of the liberal values in this economic domain, I think that there is much to be done in that when this crisis is over, we can further improve that infrastructure and even more by means of jobs such as "Etyhad", with "Nikola Tesla" Airport, such a type of partnership that is the product of geopolitical friendships that Alexander Vukic has made to move forward with the development of tourism, larger revenues, strengthening of infrastructure and strengthening Serbia in each domain, and this, of course, military and defence of which all colleagues have talked about today, which is probably also a kind of expression of good and good education. It is not simple, it is logical that each of us today spends a little time talking about what happened to us 22 years ago and that we will never allow SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic, thanks to his policy of love for his country, the patriotism expressed in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4443	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4444	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I will, unlike my previous fellow MPs who spoke before me, start with what we discussed here today, and you as Minister have had a great presentation, and as regards what is on the agenda today. First of all, Mr. Minister, I want to give you support as a national MP because behind you is a difficult period where you have only implemented SNS policy, fought for every mile of highway, followed responsible policy by President Alexander Vukic, and the only thing they have found to resent you is something that has been taken out of context on one road trip tour and it has been an attempt to cast a shadow on everything you have done so far. As you have supported young MPs and as you have addressed some individually and personally, I want you to know that you will always have support in us for those things that are of general importance and interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about air transport, when we talk about our country's progress in general and in this segment, we can't look back on any specific data. So, here, I'm just going to take three examples of where Serbia was clearly seen until 2012 and where it is today. By 2012 we had two international airports today we have three. Belgrade airport or Nikola Tesla airport had three million passengers in those years, data from 2011. If we take the year 2019 as the last relevant year before this crown of crisis, that data and that figure is passed by as many as six million people, which means we have managed to double the number of passengers at our airport in Belgrade. If you consider, the airport in Nis is 2014, I couldn't believe that this data was like this, but on several sides I compared it, only 1,300 passengers used the services of that airport while already in 2019 that figure was over 420,000. If you just take this example, you can see how much progress we're making both as a country and as a consciousness in people as much as we can trust every capacity we own, and how much we're developing our own capacities. This is where you talked about other airports, you talked about a lot of things that, you'll agree with me until seven or eight years ago, were abstract. So today we're also talking about new international airports that we're going to open. We're talking about investments that used to be in the last place of those who were leading the state by yesterday, and the last place would never have been their turn, because in the first place it was their personal interest. What was somewhere on the top of their list of priorities didn't respect that either, because they were engaged in personal promotion, but above all in personal wealth. Your presence, dear ministers, cannot be missed without mentioning what we are investing in roads, in highways, what we are investing in road infrastructure. You know how, you just mentioned where all roads are made and what's all about building. I think the best thing is that we don't have a single free truck today that's not somewhere on the road and it doesn't serve to build some road, and it's just saying how much our country is developing today. I wish, Your Honor, that you come to the Assembly as often as possible, that you have as often as possible these and proposals and laws and decisions and as much as possible in the coming period, because for the citizens, it is only important that our country develops, that our country builds. This will only be done by responsible policy when you take care of every dinar you have at your disposal. You know, justifiably, citizens sometimes doubt whether it's going to end some time, whether they're going to get asphalt, whether the highway will just be built within that deadline that's scheduled, because you need to know that you're also looking at it from the point of view of the citizens who voted for us. By 2012, 2013 they could have lied to them. They made a lot of promises. You know, you've had a situation around the city councils here in Belgrade, not to go in now as it happens somewhere in the interior where the mayor comes, former Mayor Dragan Gilas, comes two weeks before the elections, pulls out the machines "Belgrade Roads", promises to be done 100 or 200 meters of asphalt, and then as elections pass, he does 50 meters to them and return those machines. Why? To serve him for some republican or presidential elections. And, rightly, the citizens used to be skeptical whether it would all happen that way and happen. Since the coming of the SNS to power, President Aleksandar Vucic has clearly drawn out what the goals are, and they all come down to a better future and a better life for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia wherever they live and I am glad that we are able to see that you are following that pace even though, as you say, you come from the economy. So, both the economy and this place you're now running, i.e. The place you're in today, the function you're doing, it's very similar. If you work, if you fight and you observe everything domestically, you will have results. If you do not do this, you will not produce results and very soon the citizens will assess whether you are able to perform that function or not. I'll finish slowly. Today, my colleagues began their address with what is today the strongest impression for everyone, 22 years since the beginning of NATO aggression. I'll look back on it, but from just one other angle, none of my previous fellow MPs looked back on it. The various representatives of the former DS regime, whether it is Vuk Jeremic, whether it is Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, on a daily basis, refer to any topic and know that they are criticising literally anyone who today represents power and knows that they are criticising both those who have no connection with the SNS and do not form a government, but simply supports the government's policy. But what happened to my eyes and ears today is the fact that none of them remembered today, that none of them looked back on that 24th of March 1999. On this day, 22 years ago, I was only 10 years old and I remember how it all started and by reading the news that we entered the war, and I remember that the movie "Fight in Kosovo" started immediately at 20 and 10, and I remember every day and every year after that 24 March 1999, I had a mixed feeling. It hurts and irritates every citizen of Serbia when those people who today are accusing Alexander Vukic and SNS of lack of patriotism. On this very day you do not remember to dedicate one tweet or one text on social networks that are full of attacks, inventions on SNS and President Alexander Vukic. Patriotism isn't just words, patriotism is deeds. Patriotism is also a struggle for new schools, for every new job, for hospitals, for health homes, but also for every mile and times and sewage infrastructures and plumbing and everything that makes our citizens a better life. Bombing is also a NATO aggression against our country is something we all remember well, but we all have to turn to the future together, because it's in the interest of our country. For the very end, we'll forgive if we can, and we'll only forget if we don't exist. I wish you the Minister a great deal more success in the coming period, I hope there are many good proposals and laws, because more honours and greater obligations than work for future generations that come, our children and the future of Serbia have no greater honor and no greater task. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4445	Thank you. People's letter, Sadra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4446	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, I must start from what my respected colleague Mirkovic has rightly noticed, and that today no one in the ranks of the former government has looked back on today's date, very painful for our people, very painful for our history, which is how close and these wounds are still alive and open and how they bleed. That's what he says about them, and we said about ourselves today, just about everyone from this place, from the MP's bench today, about March 24, 1999, because it's our commitment to generation. It's a commitment to our children, to their future. It's a commitment we have to ourselves. I must also in my presentation today, I cannot look back and not remember all the sirens that reminded us and alarmed us that we were not in a regular situation, which reminded us that we had to seek refuge and that they reminded us that our country was in danger. Today there's been a lot of words about how we were bombed, what that "merciful angel" looked like, but I have to say goodbye, you'll look back at my Panchevo. Panchevo was a special target of NATO aviation, knowing that military facilities were installed there, as well as by calculating that there is a serious chemical and oil industry. During 78 days of bombing, Panchevo was shot 24 times with about 60 missiles. Every day we were the target of NATO attacks in particular, I said, due to the Utva factory, military bases around Kachareva, the "five thousand" barracks that were bombed almost daily. At the early dawn of April 4th, bombs dropped, and that's what was specific to the Panchevo oil refinery's power plant compared to all other targets in Serbia. The workers of this factory: Dejan Bojković, Dusan Bogosavljevev and Mirko Dmitrović died on that occasion. Seven days later, warehouses of the Panchevo oil refinery plant were also shot. In the morning of June 1st, near Starchev, next to the oil industry, members of the armed forces died: Lieutenant General of the Yugoslav Army, pilot Ljubisa Veličkovic, Colonel Bozidar Pejcic and Major Svetomir Trifunovic. Also, unfortunately, the night between April 15th and 16th will remain in memory, when Petrochemy and Azotara were hit. The “Azotara” has affected the ammonia tank and the vinyl chloride monomer in “Petrochemicals”. This is what other citizens of the Republic of Serbia from nearby Belgrade could do, and even today I got one information and a message from Pozharec, a flame burning over Pancheva was seen. Panchevo was under a thick black smoke, very specific. Ten thousand times more measurements of all materials that are not allowed in the air. We all know that this cloud of smoke took away a fairly large amount of Panceva's lives that passed away, unfortunately from cancer. The 78-day bombing of SRJs has severely damaged infrastructures, bridges, roads, factories. We all know of the humanitarian disaster that took place in Kosovo and Metohija, which was practically an excuse for failing to negotiate the province's future status, which was led in Rambuje and Paris and which served as an excuse for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to make Serbia a target. This crime went unpunished, but, as you just said, we were naked in that fight and feel the duty to defend our Serbia with our heart. That's how we defend her today. We're not naked anymore. And how we are technically trained not to attack, but also how to make sure that our interests are not compromised and that we become a respectable force in the region that can and can respond to all the risks and threats that come. I hope this opportunity we had 22 years ago our children will never have again, which is to hear sirens warning us that we must go down to the basements, shelters, that we must put our children away, that we must protect our homes. It is SNS policy, President Alexander Vukic's policy that these times will never happen again. It is the policy of peace, conversation, the policy that connects us to the East, the West, and the North, that Serbia is a safe country, that Serbia is a country in which, and you are certainly a witness who is daily visiting our country in which it is being built, in which it invests, in which progress continues. However, returning to the agenda and preparing for today's session agenda, realizing that standards are precisely when it comes to the readiness of the Republic of Serbia to continue to apply the most European standards in the field of civil aviation, by preparing ourselves for all that within this topic, Europe rules, but also the world, not only in this context, by considering and considering economic standards, but also the standards that aviation requires and in the security that is most important in this segment. I was simply thinking about this subject and working it out, but I failed to remember some of the previous times in which those who led this country after the bombing, who got the trust of the citizens and who had gambled it in the most monstrous and scariest way, that we were absolutely certain to measure the damage that NATO aviation left behind and what Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, left behind, would have been quite a battle over how much we were fed up with both of us. Just because nothing prevented them from dragging their hand into anyone's pocket, somehow JAT was a circumstance in which they often and too often entered into and tried to extract everything they couldn't on other sides, so I came to a September 2007, more specifically concluded on 26 September 2007, I will remind you that during that period, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia was Kostunica, President Boris Tadic, and Dragan Djilas, who is inevitable in all combinations, so certainly in this period we will assume, the minister in charge of the National Investment Plan. I guess that's when I should have thought about the runway for Mauritius having to be made, because it's not going to be a newly acquired and newly created tycoon going down to Mauritius, I guess it was necessary to think ahead, so for that reason this contract that's being concluded with some consulting house, which, practically, should have been made, that is, to make the implementation of the privatisation strategy for the public company Jat Aiarways, we've got one practice room in which to learn and practice how to get to the first million, and more specifically, it's about a contract worth 1,200,000 euros, for the consulting services that Jat Aiarways will prepare for privatisation. None of the only peppers in this contract that would in any way contribute to this, and the second quite story of the privatisation of JAT contributed to the construction of the contract topic, to some outcome between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the consulting house. So this contract, like many others, perhaps you ministers, have closer information on this subject, has served only to pump 1,200,000 euros out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, in order to feed some account in Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland, Delaware and who knows how much more, among those 57, that there are supposed to be in more than 17 countries, to find out that one of those who were harao to Serbia had the opportunity to remove state money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So this is the basic cover of the contract I'm holding in my hand, and I'll tell you the details. The employees of this contract at the consulting services that passed this tender, which was fictionally made with zero points that qualified this contract between several bidders, had, quite checked, because the contract stands, the daily, therefore, receiving at the level of the day, at an average of 2,500 euros. So, for the air, the fog they hired for, they received huge money for which we don't know where he ended up, what the role of this consulting contract was, but it was, of course, just one drop in the sea around Mauritius, the ocean, in which Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, and later Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, joined in, and we saw that the star Marinika Tepic had been fully trained in taking this million and in the province government. They've been practicing for their first million and they've been practicing so much that they've reached 619 million, just the one who's holding moral sermons today says we should be silenced, and trying to do it with criminal charges. All that is said here and what is, of course, investigative journalism, which has occurred, which is not prohibited, you will agree, that there are huge millions, so far discovered about 10 million money, which is thought to have either tried to put them away in that tax or, in some way, to hide the origin of their wealth, lie on some accounts in some tax havens, but he has no answer to that. What he has is an attack on journalists, not just any one, but especially women. I'll remind you that it's extremely dangerous when this kind of predator comes into the history of his family and violence, because we know that his wife personally said that he beat his father-in-law, and when that kind of threat comes from a journalist like this predator, it's really considered a serious threat to which he responded, I'll remind you, one association in Serbia, just one thing. So, not to be too long, since we're at the end of today's debate. The ring of crime and the uncompromising fight in the fight against crime, the mafia and corruption is narrowing down. Dragan Gilas, we saw that he changed his image at the last press conference, increasingly looks like some guy from the movie "Kum", let's say, in some long coats. I'm afraid when that coat opens up somewhere, some two-wheels don't welcome us in that same regime. I would only tell him that instead of, as my colleague Vladka Malovic, otherwise attacked by Dragan Gilas and his extended hands in the regimeal media, she said that instead of silk tycoon suits, she is slowly getting used to that suit on the tracks, because she will be looking at this design for a long time. What I would like to say in the end, Minister, given that attacks are coming to you and to all those who are doing fair work in this Serbia, who want to contribute to Serbia's continuing to live like the whole normal world, to improve the standard of our citizens, surrender is not an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4447	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4448	I'm sorry. I know it's already the end of the session. I just wanted to look back briefly, unprepared for this kind of debate, but not at all surprised by what you said, of course. I'd just be surprised, dear colleague Christmas, dear Sandra, if you were surprised by some kind of paper. Once upon a time, after October 5th, when famous public procurements from ashtrays costing 500 euros, a cup of 300 euros, a garbage can of several thousand euros, we were surprised. Now that the fictitious contracts, which amount to millions of euros, which have no basis behind it, are indeed no surprise. Maybe we should all imagine about that. Such contracts exist on the railway. It's not the only contract. I wouldn't want to do it now, I'm really not saved, but it's one of the manners that led to the once powerful JAT, I don't know how many people know what JAT's been through history, it was one of the strongest companies ever. After October 5th with huge donations, from huge subsidies, from huge investment, we came to the ruin of this once powerful company. It couldn't have done that without the consultants. It would not have happened if some experts in this profile had not been involved, certainly more than 2,500 euros. That number doesn't sound bad to me. I'll only use a few more minutes to thank all the MPs for the interview, then also to look back at one good exposure from Mr. MP Janko Langur, who was talking about vaxers, anti-vaxers. We really have an absolutely incredible situation that we have on one side of these anti-vaxers. The platform is clear, we must respect it. They are against vaccination, "Munje over Mirjev", "Plan", "Ljotic". We have to respect that and it is some fact that exists in this society, which we must try to explain that the country is not a flat plate, that there is no "Muture above Mirjev" etc. We've now got a new structure, nadriantivaxer, who claim that we're all citizens with these Chinese are part of some experiment in phase three I don't know what. As a member of the Crisis Staff, I really do need to get out of my vault again and express my clear opposition to such an act. It's not an attack on me, it's not an attack on the government, it's not an attack on the president, it's an attack on people, members of the crisis staff, on the medicine agency that approved those vaccines to be used. Imagine what level of irresponsibility we're communicating at today. Some people who claim to be the leaders of the opposition, who were neither less nor more than presidents of the world at the time, say that we are guinea pigs in some third phase of the interrogation and that we are all now at risk with millions of vaccines and that this is all part of one big exhibition of ours. It's really hard to comment. It's my fault, and I really want to condemn it as harshly as possible, to deny it. Not because of me, it sounds fun and so interesting to me, at the level of "Breathing above Mirjev", but because of all the people of the Crisis Staff, with whom we often have different opinions, but these people are the best that this country has from the corner of medicine, and they're selected to help us defend against this unprecedented evil that's hit the whole world. Out of respect for them, don't talk like this. This is really funny. If we wanted to be part of the experiment and get into phase three of the interrogation, like some countries did, we didn't want to. We didn't want to take any chances. The President of the Republic has made it clear – we do not want to risk, we believe that this is the best that exists in terms of vaccination, but we do not want to risk it, the question is whether they would approve. Like this, no risk, we're the leading country on vaccination. Once again, thank you to Mrs. Christmas. I apologize for replicating it this way. Unfortunately, I'm not surprised. Unfortunately, it's not the only paper. Unfortunately, that's enough. Who's going to do this, I really don't know. We have to deal with this company that used to be JAT, which was once a wreck, continue to raise, try it in some commercial sense to win Europe, try the economic standard to continue to raise, try to further raise these salaries that are already at over 500 euros in average earnings. These are our tasks, until 2025, to build all this infrastructure. In these conditions of the crown, in the worst conditions, when the whole world is closed, when the whole Western Europe is experiencing a recession, when everyone's pulled out, we're not retreating. With responsible policy, seriously, this policy, led by the President of the Republic, leads this country forward, maintains an economy above the surface and saves us from vaccination. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4449	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. You have three minutes and 28 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4450	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I will say only a few things that matter to this law, to this agreement. I'm a man who comes from Srlig, I spoke several times in the previous period, 2014, 2015 about the airport, about the problems of the airport. I can only say one thing, that the difference in the work of the airport is seen as it was until 2012, 2013, as it began in 2014, where my colleague earlier said they had tens of thousands of passengers who were at Constantin the Great Airport. Now in 2020, or 2019, we have over 420,000 passengers. It is a sign that the state of Serbia, that the Serbian government, in that time since 2014, 2015, 2016, the current President, Mr. Vukic, was Prime Minister, sees shifts, sees investment. It's a big deal for all of us living in southeastern Serbia. A low airport is the backbone of development, a backbone for all of us who live there. One of the important things is that last year, in 2019, we have now formed the public enterprise of the Republic of Serbia, where the director of the company, whose headquarters is not in Belgrade, is based in Nis, is a man from Nis, Mihajlo Zdravkovic. It's a big thing for us not to have everything in Belgrade, to be something in Nis. With this current adoption, we will have the opportunity to invest in Constantin Great Airport to create a new facility, a new building, to build a tower. It's a big thing, where we plan on having a crown gone, when we're dealing with the crown, and we can only do that when we're vaccinated, from that moment on, I'm sure we'll have the expansion of the passengers, where a large number of people will come and where Constantin the Great airport will certainly work much better. We expect, advocate and fight both as MPs and citizens in southeastern Serbia, as well as the Serbian Government, to have up to a million passengers. It is a plan for the development of Constantin the Great Airport, the plan and the Serbian Government. It's a good thing it's the headquarters of that airport and the state-owned company in Nis. I think it's a positive thing. I think we all have to work together to invest much more in Nis, in southeastern Serbia, to invest in these small areas. Dear Minister, I'll tell you a few things, and you're probably in progress. Since we all know the arrival of passengers, the whole southeast of Serbia is coming to Nis, to cross the airport to any country in the world, it's a big deal. Air Serbia planes are now present at the airport. It's a big deal. We now have one, that's your portfolio, the ministry you're leading, the problem of coming from eastern Serbia, so, Književec, Zaječar, via Svrlig to Nis. We have a path that's in very bad shape. It's so-called. A path that leads from the Malcanic loop to the entrance to Nis. That's the part of the road we have to do. That's what we discussed with your director, Drobnjak. They had promises, but she caught the crown and this period. I expect we have to do this. The bottom line is that someone gets to Costantin the Great Airport. It must go through Nis if it comes from eastern Serbia. That part of the road we have to do, that is necessary, and that has been informed by Mayor Nisa, Ms Dragana Sotirovska. I think we should say about building a road. Here, now plans to complete the construction of the road from Književci to Zaječar. (President: Milia, I have to interrupt, there are airways on the agenda, not these.) It's okay. Dear President of the Assembly, Your Honor, I expect this part of what I've been saying to you to be over. Investment in the airport is an investment in the development of the southeast of Serbia, and we can do it together. Here we as MPs and you as the Government of the Republic of Serbia will work and I am sure that there will be results. As an MP and as a representative of the United Peasant Party to vote in favour of the bill, because I think this is the only chance to invest in southeastern Serbia, investment in Serbia's development. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-24-0.u4451	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. I didn't mean to interrupt, but you've got three and a half minutes left, and you've been talking a little longer. I wanted to distract you so you could finish. Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of different parliamentary groups, I would like to thank Minister Momirovic. Of course, to say in the end that even today, on March 24th, in some ways, it symbolically shows one connection that day and the problem we have in defending our territorial integrity with one part of the topic of this law. Although we have not talked about this today in part of this law, that is, the international agreement concerns air space control over Kosovo and Metohija. This is the result of our struggle all these years, President Vucic and I at the beginning of 2012, when I was prime minister, just to endure through this issue all the pressures that were to open the upper and lower layers, as it is said, in international air traffic. That's why I'm saying it's this symbolic bond that everything they've tried and military means, all these years, they've been trying to make a team. "political means", pressures, various international agreements to blackmail us into violating the basic principles of protecting our territorial integrity and sovereignty. That's why it's symbolic, we came to this day's topic on the agenda. So I thank the Minister and all the MPs for their participation in today's session. On the basis of Article 98(4), I hereby conclude a single search on this agenda point. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. I'll just remind you that tomorrow, as you know, and every last Thursday of the month, we have until 3:00 a.m. to discuss the remaining points of the agenda, and then it's time to ask parliamentary questions from the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. After that, it will be Voting Day, or voting time after 19.00. Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert your cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system it is found that, at this point in the hall, 139 MPs are present, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure? He has the word Milletic. Here you go.
