ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3338	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will ask a few questions today. The first question is addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Fight and Social Affairs, and it concerns when will families whose members have been kidnapped at the train station of Strpci and in the North receive the status of civilian victims of war and when will they be paid full reparation? The second question concerns the Commission for Missing Persons – how long has it been since the discovery of postmortem remains taken in Strpci and the North? I think the minimum that we owe as people, citizens and society to families whose members have been kidnapped in the Strpts and the North, but also to all other missing persons, is the right to have their families buried or, as we say, mezarus. I was wondering, the other day I saw the Ministry and Commission initiative, as far as it came, and that's certainly what all citizens and citizens are interested in, especially in Sandzak. The third question is addressed to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office – how long has it been with the proceedings in these two cases? Is the background, or the inspirers, determined, and when judgments can be expected? What actually happened? So, on Saturday, February 27th, it turns 28 since 19 citizens, 19 people, 18 Bosniaks and one Croat, having seen personal documents, were abducted at the Strpci railway station by the paramilitary formation "Revealers". What were those people doing on that train, or those in the North on the bus? Well, they did what I and most colleagues do every week -- we travel to Belgrade, we do our job and we come back. Most passengers of train Lovcen 671 traveled to Belgrade for their obligations, labour obligations, to feed their family. Some traveled to be educated, some to be treated. They were loyal citizens of most of the Republic of Serbia. They didn't go to war or to smuggle. This country was obliged to protect them. A minimum of what we can do to their families is recognize the status of civilian war victims and pay them full reparation. As for local self-government in Prepolje and Priboj, they were doing what was in their power, I must point it out. Local parties, both Bosniak and Serbian, have done what they can to ease the pain of families – they have built the memorial complexes, a memorial academy is organised annually and symbolic assistance is paid to families as much as local self-government is possible. But what we owe, as a society, as a state, as a security citizen, is that after 28 years we try to reduce the pain of families because these people are gone. The criminal has no faith or nation. He has a name. He's got his own name and for that misdemeanor he's done, he needs to answer. I pray to God that the Smurfs and the North never again and no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3339	Thank you. National MP Enis Imamovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3340	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, as a man and as a representative of Bosniaks, the Bosniak people in this parliament, will begin my address with a minute of silence for all the innocent victims of the Nazi camp in Jasenovac. May the memory of these victims be a lesson and a lesson for all to never and to no one be victims of the Nazi and fascist regimes and camps as they were. Unfortunately, after Jasenovac, there was a genocide in Srebrenica. Camps happened in Foca, Banja Luka. There's been a Prijedor. One such concentration camp where the Bosniaks were imprisoned, in Prijedor, marked Bosniak people with white ribbons over their hands by the same fascist methods, and Bosniak houses with white sheets and just the victims of Prijedor in Serbia are making fun of themselves on television these days with national frequencies. Those sacrifices are insulted and humiliated. After dozens of convictions for the camps in Prijedor, after films, after the books, after witnessing, including those on Fikret Alić, one director and one director of the last film about the camp in Jasenovac on that television with the national frequency make fun of, insult and disrespect a starving prisoner of the camp in Prijedor. They don't even know his name. They call him "the skinny one," but that's why they know his diagnosis. They know he was reportedly ill with tuberculosis, etc. Starving Fikret Alic is called propaganda against Serbs, they call it the circus they are taking around Europe and, to make it even more disgusting, in that insult and relativisation of the camp, a man who directed the last film about the camp in Jasenovac participates. That director's comments are terrible, morbid. However, they are primarily demeaning, offensive, irresponsible to the victims in Jasenovac. If he was really dealing with issues, problems and sufferings of the victims in Jasenovac and who was really dealing with this topic has no power to mock and mock other people's victims of other camps, let alone dare to degrade and to call on television with the national frequency a people's suffering a circus and propaganda, and all this is unpunished and unobserved in a country whose Constitution says in Article 49 that every challenge and incentive of racial, national, religious and other inequality, hatred and impatience is forbidden. There should be a Republic Public Prosecutor in this country. I ask the Republic Public Prosecutor what he did on this matter? I'm asking the Constitutional Court if a trial has been initiated on this matter. I'm asking RRA what she's done about this? Today, the institutions of Serbia deny genocide, relativize crimes, and glorify criminals. At sports events, "The knife, wire, Srebrenica" is cried out. Souvenirs are sold with these slogans calling for a new genocide. "Oj Pazaru new Vukovar, oj Sjenica new Srebrenica" is heard at sports events, athletes are offended. What is the Republic Public Prosecutor doing in this country? What's the Constitutional Court doing? They allow other people's victims to laugh, belittle themselves, and then such institutions are surprised by negative reports from Europe. In two days, it is the anniversary of the kidnapping in Strpci, where the victims were Bosniaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3341	Mr. Imamovic, since it's been five minutes, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3342	I'm done. The victims, neither these remains were found until today, nor were their killers punished. These victims were victims of the same genocide wave that occurred in Srebrenica, such as the victims of Prijedor, Foche, Visegrad, etc. The lack of punishment leads to a complete absence of drinking to the victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3343	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3344	I'd like to ask you a question when will justice be for these victims?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3345	You're out of time. He'll be here today...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3346	There is no point in asking this question anymore because justice in this country is very selective and, as far as we can see, very unattainable for Bosniaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3347	You can ask what you want, but you don't have any more time. So you can go to the second session. Let's move on. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3348	Mr. President, thank you. I was going to ask another question, actually to ask you a request and to express a certain number of findings personally to you, but I'm going to start with what was just said -- genocide in Srebrenica. I would like to remind you that this is the only parliament in the region that has expressed a clear stance on Srebrenica and adopted the Srebrenica Resolution. By bringing the Srebrenica Declaration, we have fulfilled both moral and international obligations. Did any parliament in the region do that? Do you know what a genocide is in Srebrenica? That's when the president of the state goes to bow down to the victims, and in return they try to kill the president of the state. Now that you're asking the D.A.'s office, then ask if anyone has convicted it, has anyone done anything about it? But to go back to what I wanted to ask today. Dear President, the movie "Dara from Jasenovac" by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group considers it very important for our people, as it speaks of the place of the greatest loss of our people. It's not propaganda, it's the voice of a woman who talks about suffering and a camp that was unique by having a death camp in his system, unfortunately, for children. There is no more and greater strategy and the deaths of the Serbian, Roma and Jewish people. After 75 years, the state, the president and the government remembered that something should be done to talk about our victims in World War II. The criticisms addressed to this film are unfounded, untrue, inappropriate and political. Criticisms are not specifically addressed to the account of the film. These criticisms were directed to challenge Serbia's right to talk about victims and the deaths of Serbs, Roma and Jews in Jasenovac. Now I want to make one parallel. The president and the government have done their part. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club has considered, analysed, in what way we as the highest body of the legislative authority can help in all that the victims of World War II are not forgotten and I want to remind you, President, that we have a Commission for the Co-operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the State Dum and with China and that this is the highest form of bilateral co-operation held by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the last meeting of the Commission for Co-operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the State Dum of the 75th anniversary of the World War II celebration and victory over fascism, the initiative of the President of the State Dum was adopted, in fact adopted, an initiative to create an institute for the preservation of historical memory. We believe that this is of exceptional importance and exceptional importance. I think this is a proposal of great importance for Serbia and the Serbian people, because we are all witnessing attempts to review history and try to minimise victims. Our common task, the task of all of us is to preserve our common heritage, because it is important that science be involved with the goal of preserving the real truth about creating a free Europe. Mr. President, I know that you have communication with the President of the State Dume, Mr. Vjaceslav Volodin and my application, is not a question, my request is for you to ask the question in the next conversation with the President of the State Dume as far as it has come with the realization of this initiative, because I know that this initiative has also been accepted by the Serbian side, I have participated in this meeting, I believe it is of great importance and importance for Serbia and for the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3349	Thank you. (Mihailo Jokic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) There are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure or replicas at these points. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia, what will they do to bring the person of justice to Naser Oric, who, in the period from 1992 to 1995, with his armed formations, committed a severe massacre of the Serb population in Podrinj and killed about 3,500 Serbs, mainly women, children and old people? Witnesses who survived his massacre testify that he was taking some people's eyes out alive and that one man was slaughtered. This man has been tried in The Hague tribunal and has been sentenced to some insignificant prison sentence since, if I am not mistaken, a year and is now a free citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, participates in TV shows and accuses the Republic of Serbia of aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. What I want to say for the citizens of Serbia, because of the citizens of Serbia who are both Serbian and Bosniak nationalities, for those Serbs who, unfortunately, were pathological types, as were on all war parties in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the crimes in Prijedor and in Omar and Keleterm and Strpci and the North, the perpetrators were convicted. Nebojsa Ranisavljevic, who organised the crime in Strpci, was sentenced by a court in the White Field to a 15-year prison sentence. Milan Lukic, commander of the Avengers paramilitary formation, was sentenced to 20 years in Belgrade for crimes in the north, and was later tried in The Hague tribunal. Here were the words of the film "Dara from Jasenovac" and it was given a minute of silence for the victims of Jasenovac, but it seems to me not a pure heart, but with the intention of equating the crime in Jasenovac with the crimes in Prijedor, Foca, Severin and Strpci. As you can see, for all these Serbian crimes, Serbs are convicted. And now I ask, do I not know whether to ask the Republic of Serbia or to ask historical justice, and what about Ali Izetbegovic, whose rule killed over 10,000 Serbs in Kazani near Sarajevo, in Trebevic, where their machetes were cut off? What about those who brought BiH to the squad of Mujahedin El Mujahid? You have television footage of a member of that squad sharpening an axe and then seeing a decapitated head of a captured Serb soldier. No one tried them. The gentleman who spoke before me, from the Party of the Democratic Action of Sandzak, spoke of Jasenovac. I ask him, since he already has so much pain in the victims of Jasenovac, does he know that both Ante Pavelic and Vjekoslav Luburic have escaped the hands of justice? Andrija Artuković was brought to Zagreb in 1986 to die in her homeland. Dinko Shakic was brought to Zagreb in 1998 to die in his homeland. Countless Ustasha butchers, not only from Jasenovac, Ustasha butchers from BiH, have withdrawn the hands of justice. Do I need to remind you of what the Black Legion did when it led operations both against partisans and against Chetniks in early 1942, what crimes it committed on the Drina River itself? Had it not been for General Nedic, whatever he was, thousands of Serb heads would have fallen. He saved them from the Ustasha knife. Do I need to remind you of the crimes and whether anyone has apologized to the Serbs for the crimes committed by the SS Division so-called. The construction of the division, which was formed in 1943, and which committed the most serious crimes against Serbs in BiH? Has anyone apologized to the Serbs for forming three regiments, as he called them, 369, 373 and 392 sent to the Eastern Front, to fight the Red Army, so when they returned from the Eastern Front, they killed children from Kozara, then participated in all German offensives on Neretva, on Sutjesca, and even here in Serbia? I don't know if you know it, in the fall of 1942, chasing Lieutenant Colonel Dragutin Keserovic, one of the most prominent Mihailovic commanders, besides the Germans, Bulgarians, also participated in the famous 369th bloody Division of Ante Pavelic. Draža Mihailovic sent a telegram to Prime Minister Slobodan Jovanovic in London and said – so now the Croats are killing Serbs and in Serbia, not enough for them to kill in NDH.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3351	Mr. Martinovic, I just need to warn you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3352	Okay. I'm saying all of this so that the Serbian citizens know, among the Serbs who bloodied their hands, they're condemned or a vast majority of them, some of the domestic courts... Thank you to these colleagues for playing music as we speak on this subject. So, those among the Serbs who committed crimes are convicted, but what about those who are not convicted both by Croats and by Bosniaks? Should I remind you that Ante Gotovina is a free man, that Marker is a free man? Should I remind you that Republika Srpska was attacked at the same time in 1995 from 11 directions? On the charge were only commanders of two assault directions – Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markac. No one was convicted of Storm. No one was convicted of "Glass". No one has been convicted of the Maestral. No one was convicted of Operation Summer 1995, absolutely no one. Bosnian-Herzegovic Croats were convicted of only those who participated in crimes against Bosniaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3353	Mr. Martinovic, I really need to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3354	Here, I'm done. No one was convicted of the first crime that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this is not the murder of the Serb wedding in Basharshi, but the murder of 19 Serbian civilians in Sijekovac near the Bosnian Brod in March 1992, carried out by members of the so-called "Sijekovac". regular Croatian troops Franjo Tudjman and the Croatian Council of Defence together with local Muslims. I mean, for Serbian tears, no one seems to care. I bow deeply to the victims of both the Croatian and Muslim people, or the Bosniak people, but when you stand up to give a minute of silence for the victims in Jasenovac, you do it with a pure heart. You did it today for daily political reasons, and I think you should be ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3355	Thank you. I would just like to ask everyone who uses this member to understand that this is not about political polemics, replicas and everything else. I've allowed it to speak for more than five minutes, as clearly provided for by the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure also stipulates that certain notifications or explanations may be asked. Any other interpretation and approach to this implies that we are actually entering other points of the agenda and then having a discussion with the polemics, replicas, injuries of the Rules of Procedure, etc. Given the importance of this topic and these topics, let this be the last time we use this article in this way, I guess we have plenty of time and space to discuss these three days out of this article 287. If you have five minutes to ask a question, ask an explanation or an answer, use it. There is no room for political attitudes and controversy in these five minutes. I only say that because it would now turn out that many of them, as Mr. Jokic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is not foreseen. It is not intended for this Rules of Procedure, and it would likely cause a large number of replicas. So, accordingly, I did, and when Mr. Imamovic spoke, I allowed him not to be interrupted for that moment of silence, so he spoke for more than six minutes. Mr. Martinovic also spoke longer, given the importance of this topic and the need to make certain views known. I'd like to ask you next time we're using this member exclusively as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. If we don't need that member and this time, we're gonna have to shut him down. We've got controversy, we've got a debate, now we've got a debate on another topic where, as you know, no one's going to take a word from anyone, even if he's saying something that's not closely related to the subject. As no one appears anymore, we continue to work and move on to a unique search on the 7th item of the agenda – REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE COURT PROTECTION COMMISSION FOR 2019. One year with a proposal to lock up the Economic Committee, the Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy of 3. FEBRUARY 2021. YEAR According to Article 90(1) and Article 239(2) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the meetings were invited to attend Nebojsa Peric, President of the Competition Protection Commission, Cedomir Radojčić, Daniela Bocan, Miroslava Djosic and Sinisa Milosevic, members of the Commission Council. Before we go any further, I'd just like to give you some information about today's work. Given that we have practically four continents today, I want you to know that by 13.00 hours we should be discussing this item of the agenda, that is, this report, from 13.00 to 15.00 hours, the topic would be the debate in the details of the Property Origin Act, then the break from 15.00 to 16.00 hours. At 4:00 p.m., we start asking questions, as the last Thursday of the month, the members of the government, and at 19.00 p.m., when it's over, there will be a vote. It's some frame captain we're gonna stick to today. You have received a report on the Commission's work with the protection of competition, as well as a proposal for conclusions. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Articles 192 and 238, paragraphs 3 and 4. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single review of the Commission's work on competition protection for 2019 with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Mr. Perry, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3356	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, let me begin by noting that the current Competition Protection Council was elected by the National Assembly on 14 November 2019, but I would like to say that I am honored that, on behalf of the Competition Protection Commission, as an important state institution, I can present the results of this body's work, which show continuity in carrying out essential activities in the area of competition protection entrusted to the Commission. As you know, the Competition Protection Commission was established by the 2005 law, and the first Council started working in 2006. If we were to look at the Commission's work from this aspect, then we would say that, in relation to national bodies in other developed countries, our Competition Protection Commission is a relatively young body and that, of course, we are aware that the number of accumulated "cays" just makes an experienced one institution, but in the present period certainly that the Competition Protection Commission has gained considerable experience, that it has significantly raised human capacity, but that there is also room for some progress, especially since it is a multidisciplinary and specific area, which represents, on the one hand, a combination of rights and economies. It's about an area that is essential and important for every country, for the well-being of citizens, for a fair competition. However, what I would also like to point out here, and I think it is important because there is often confusion in the public affairs of the institution itself, which is that the Competition Protection Commission is not protecting competitors, nor is the market regulator, but the Competition Protection Commission is protecting competition from public interest. When it comes to the administrative capacity of the Competition Protection Commission itself, I can say that the number of employees corresponds to the current engagement of the Commission. However, given the speed of development of individual markets, we believe that in the future there will certainly be a need for staffing the Commission, for improving the Commission's work in terms of training for the Commission's own employees, whether through certain domestic and international projects and through some additional education. With regard to the Commission’s own funding for work itself, it should be noted that the Commission is self-financed from its own income, most of the revenue generated from issuing acts at the time of issue, i.e. the approval of concentrations, in a small part of the individual exemptions of restrictive agreements, but that the results of the Financial Commission are always positive and that practically remains the surplus of revenue paid to the Republic of Serbia’s budget, in addition to, of course, penalties, i.e. the measure of protection of competition already being paid to the budget. We believe that this way of funding the Commission is good because it and how it enables the Commission's operational independence in its work. As regards the review of the most important and significant activities carried out by the Commission during the reporting period, it is certainly the procedures for determining the existence of infringements of competition, the examination of the concentration procedures of individual exemptions of restrictive agreements, the implementation of sectoral analyses and the analysis of the conditions of competition in certain industries or individual markets, the giving of opinions from the Commission's work, active participation in the accession of the Republic of Serbia through Chapter VIII, participation in international and domestic projects, i.e. domestic and international co-operation. I will now try to implement you in a precise and concise way through all these areas that I have mentioned, i.e. the most significant areas in the performance of my activities carried out by the Competition Protection Commission. Of course, I will do my best not to fill you with too many statistics, because they are already contained in the Commission's work report itself, but I will certainly mention some which, as they show, are quantifiable to the results of the Commission's work. So you could see in the Work Report when it comes to reports of concentration and note that the concentrations are the simplest said, certain transactions between companies on the market in terms of taking over and gaining control of one company over another, some of the status changes that occur within them, i.e. changes in management rights, or controls within the companies themselves. As you have seen, such cases, i.e. the 2019 application, were a total of 197, which also speaks in a certain way about market activities and the density of transactions carried out in the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, the Commission's most significant competition protection activity concerns competition injury and in 2019 the Commission examined the existence of injury to competition in 23 examinations, of which 10 were completed in such a way that a measure of competition protection was imposed in certain proceedings, that some proceedings were suspended due to lack of evidence, while some proceedings provided for the termination of the procedure which implies the obligation to fulfil certain measures imposed on the parties during a certain period of time. Of course, regardless of the results that have been achieved, we certainly believe that in the future the focus of the Commission's work should be in fact on infringements of competition, regardless of whether it is restrictive agreements, horizontal or vertical or abuse of a dominant position. What I think, and I think, is that for all this time of existence, we have strengthened institutionally enough, if you want human and technical, that we can also engage in those areas that the Commission has not done in its work so far, and that you will have the opportunity to see already through the 2020 Work Report. Also, during 2019, the Commission continued to use the mechanisms available to it when detecting, or proving, competition injuries, from which I would single out two perhaps most significant, and these are unannounced insights and the "lenienty" programme. Therefore, unannounced insights are those insights that are carried out in situations where an unannounced assumption is based on a procedure, as well as to prevent any destruction or concealment of evidence, unannounced insights are carried out. Indeed, in all this time they have proved to be an effective means of detecting distortions of competition. Especially since we, too, have, through practice, established that apparently companies themselves are giving more and more attention to this area and that it is increasingly rare in the contracts themselves or in the accompanying documents with contracts that can find explicit provisions related to the violation of competition rights. For this reason, unannounced insights are a good mechanism, or a good instrument, to obtain evidence that only confirms the existence of such a type of injury. Also, in the 2020 report, you will have the opportunity to see what the results were related to the implementation of unannounced insights. When it comes to the second institute, the "leniency" institute, or so on. "repentant programme", it is an institute where participants in a restrictive agreement can report the existence of such a restrictive agreement. If the procedure has not been initiated, responsibilities may be released and if the procedure is initiated and certain conditions prescribed by law are met, in this case the participant of the restrictive agreement may be fined. In 2019, there was a "leniency" applicant based on which the Commission launched the procedure. Of course, we don't think that's enough. On the one hand, obviously there are certain, I would say, cultural barriers to reporting by participants for the existence of restrictive agreements. On the other hand, the experiences of other national bodies are such that this is actually one of the most effective ways to detect restrictive agreements, primarily cartels, market participants. We will continue to promote this institute in the future. We also believe that it is necessary to recall the basic flows of competition protection, which is certainly the security of a fair competition between players on the market, with the aim of maximising the well-being of end-users, or the effects that the Commission's decisions will have on the end-users. The next activity of the Competition Protection Commission during 2019 concerned individual exemptions from restrictive agreements. So, it's about such agreements that, by their nature, are restrictive, but if they are met by law, they can be approved by the Commission for a certain period of time, regardless of, I say, which by their nature is restrictive. During 2019, the Commission decided on 28 of these cases, and in the 21st case, it reached a solution exempting such restrictive agreements, while in seven cases the proceedings were suspended because the agreements submitted were not restrictive. Also, one very important segment in the Commission's work is sectoral analysis and analysis of the conditions of competition. In particular, sectoral analyses are useful for an integrated view of competitive trends in one branch. The Competition Protection Act itself has provided that in situations where price or other circumstances on the market indicate possible prevention, distortion and restrictions on competition, such sectoral analyses can be carried out. During 2019, the Commission conducted two sectoral analyses and one analysis of the conditions of competition. What is a step in 2020, which you will also have the opportunity to see through the 2020 report, is that the Commission has more committed itself to conducting sectoral analyses, namely its proactive role because we have concluded that well-done sectoral analyses not only give us a picture of the state of the market or the state of competition in a particular branch of the economy, but also because, as a rule, they also contain evidence that they can be a good basis, i.e. to represent a reasonable presumption of the procedure in relation to, for example, anonymous applications or initiatives which, as a rule, do not contain sufficient evidence. When it comes to promoting competition protection, I would point out that the existence of a Competition Protection Commission is not solely related to punishment, or to the expression of competition protection measures, but also to the education of market participants. Since we have noticed that some of the injuries often occur from short notice, the accent is sometimes more on prevention than it is on reactive. One way that the Commission can act preventively is by giving its opinions when making certain legal rules that are not binding on the one hand, but also how they can represent a certain prevention. With regard to international co-operation, a project with the Italian body for competition protection is currently being implemented, where one of the segments and just training of the judges of the administrative court, given that the decisions taken by the Commission in the administrative procedure are final, but that their legality is checked by the administrative court and that even in some national bodies, i.e. the legislation of other countries, there are specialised departments within the courts concerned only in this area. Finally, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to present the results of the Commission's work on the protection of competition in 2019, with the announcement that the next report for 2020, which will soon be held before you, will contain an even greater density of the Commission's activities and even better and measurable indicators of the Commission's performance for the protection of competition. I thank you once again for your attention and I am at your disposal for any questions you may have.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3357	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The word has been made by MP Veroljub Arsic, as a promoter in front of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. As it is often thought in our public that the Competition Protection Commission is the one who plays a primary role in protecting consumers from the monopoly position of individual participants in trade. However, the very essence of the work of this Commission is much more serious and deeper than an ordinary citizen can think, and I believe that most of us MPs, because it is difficult to understand all the consequences we can have in case the Commission does not do its job or does not exist. This is about a very important body responsible for its work, primarily the National Assembly. We, as MPs, are obliged to enjoy our full support and protection from everything that can happen to them in their work if that authority does what is right. Was it always like that? Well, I can't say it is. Often, our authorities, which we have set up to regulate certain developments in the economic, political and every other life of the Republic of Serbia, are being hampered by the performance of their primary functions. First of all, if someone has a monopoly position on the market, it is not only a question that they will appreciate providing their services or selling their goods and thus protecting the end-user, i.e. the consumer of goods and services, but if someone achieves that monopoly position it is beginning to control all economic flows in Serbia. Unfortunately, we have very painful experiences from the past that this has happened. The goal of each country is to support, for the most part, domestic consumption. Domestic consumption is driven in the first place by domestic economy, and the amount of domestic consumption defines the state of knowledge of its economic and social status. The second thing, related to domestic consumption, is the participation of all suppliers in this process and some trade or service provision. We have a very bad experience of what it looks like when the Commission didn't exist, even when it existed being disrupted by various state authorities, courts, by the Prime Minister and could not protect, or achieve its primary activity, which is why it was founded by the National Assembly. On the other hand, because of the Commission's lack of or inability to do what is expected of it, we had a very deep economic crisis in which a small number of people gained a large economic gain, while destroying every sector in Serbia that had anything to do with the work done in that territory. The start of a criminal, economic criminal enterprise that literally impoverished not only the citizens, but also the healthy part and the real part of the Serbian economy, will begin in 2005. In this they participated, I can say then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and many others, of course, with the intervention of the president of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic. It's about taking over the C market by Delta. The Commission didn't exist at the time, maybe there was some government, the one we have now, no. She started working in February of 2006, I think. This is the year 2005 when for 44m euros and bankruptcy, with the consent of the Trade Court that conducted the bankruptcy proceedings, Delta becomes the owner of 60% stake, i.e. the property of the C market. I'm talking about 44m euros, but I'm also talking about 64% of the market and the share of the market that Delta had and that was won by the acquisition of the C market. When you control 2/3 of the market, you control everything, every supplier, whether it's a manufacturer, whether it's an importer, whether it's a wholesaler. All economic flows in Serbia. When you have 2/3 of the market, you set the deadlines by which you will pay for the goods, how will you obtain it, and how will you sell it, how will the supplier pay you for selling its goods, what deadlines will you pay for it, and how will you accumulate its capital in your accounts or the assets of the company you have? Such a move, which was made in 2005 and which could not have happened without political support from the state, I am primarily referring to then Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, his government, but also to the courts involved and how they participated. What did some economists, analysts say back then? They say it's a precedent and suggest it's without a proper response from the state authorities. It was also a fact that a man in the position of a sales manager and the head of a buying company. Given that Delta already owns Maxi's discount, that she bought Pecabeta, by buying a C market, Delta could become a monopolies when it comes to trade. This is where the Antimonopoly Commission should react and determine what percentage of Delta's market is. Maybe she was with the government that monopoly commission, but not the one we have now. So by buying the C market, Miskovic became 2/3 of the owner of Serbia. He started using his company to suck up money, to take money, to kidnap from every supplier, because if his terms don't get accepted, he won't get the goods and he'll get the goods from a competing firm. The deadlines were fairy-tale, a year and more. Companies that were forced to work with Delta Company to cover their liquidity raised loans indexed in euro, and the Central Bank to further poverty these suppliers, and helped Miskovic become richer determined high interest rates on dinar loans, so they could choose whether to expose themselves to the risk of changing the rate of dinar compared to the euro or without the risk of buying loans that they could not repay. The result was that neither, nor any other loan could be paid, as the company Delta bought foreign exchanges in the market with various speculations, kept in various accounts the sister companies will pay the white world and pay the goods and services they consumed after a year 20% and 30% cheaper in euros than it was at the moment of the creation of a debt-trust relationship. Many companies then left Serbia, many companies failed in Serbia to make Delta Land richer. I'm talking not only about hundreds of millions of euros, I'm talking about hundreds of thousands of lost jobs, all because, first of all, the state didn't want to do its job. How was the situation going? I guess because of the pressure Serbia suffered, because, you know, the Serbian market is interesting for others, Miskovic comes to the idea of selling his trade chain, making enough money. There's a little more to be earned in that transaction. So someone doesn't say that I'm saying some things that aren't founded I'm telling you the next example of how the National Assembly was doing back then. To increase the value of the property Miskovic wanted to sell, you had to make some legal assumptions that would make this value even bigger. The National Assembly of July 2010, on the proposal of Trade Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, passed a new Law on Trade, a law that directly increases the value of the assets available to Delta Company. Article 45 of the Law states that – for commercial formats whose total sales and storage space is over 2,000 square metres of gross surface area is produced an impact study on the structure of the market. In particular, the impact study contains an assessment of the interests of consumers and other customers for the existence of a commercial facility of a given area and purpose, the need for the existence of different structures of different trade formats and different commercial entities in the wider and narrow market area, the need to improve trade by introducing new forms of sales and distribution of goods, etc., that I do not read. So no one could open any serious trading format in Serbia without this study that was impossible to get as positive. If someone rebelled against the opposition's MPs, they would be attacked to protect the interests of large trade chains, not small providers of trade services, and the small one could no longer protect because Miskovic controlled 65% of the market. They were sentenced to ruin wherever "Delta" was, for they could neither obtain goods by the conditions under which she bought "Delta", at any price or by other deadlines. The National Assembly adopts this law. In this way, we have already driven away the "Ikeu" and "Lidl" and each other, every other trade chain that wanted to be present in Serbia. That's what I'm saying, and the fact is what happened next. I'm talking about July 2010. In July 2011, the formal sale of one part of Delta Company, i.e. C-market and related persons who did so at Delta Company, begins. Our Commission has twice refused to give consent. Twice, the Administrative Court annuls the Commission's decision to protect competition and twice returns it to a re-determination in order to give a positive opinion from the third time. Why don't you give it to me? Did they have the support of the National Assembly? No, you can tell by the 2010 Trade Act. Did they have the support of the judicial authorities? No, because the courts made decisions, although the Commission's decisions were fully in line with the law. Did they have protection from the Department of Commerce? No, they're not. Did they have the protection of the Prime Minister? No, they're not. Did they have the protection of the President of the Republic then, Boris Tadic? No, they're not. On the contrary, they all participated in making Miskovic richer. All of them. Tadic went to negotiate with Delez to confirm his loyalty to Miskovic and the 2010 trade law transactions. Cvetkovic negotiated with Miskovic, helped him conduct the transaction. What did they say in the end? Delez buys the "Maxie", or trade chain belonging to Delta, for 932.5m euros. In 2005, Miskovic bought this for 44m euros, only 44m euros. This amount should be added to 300m euros in debts purchased by Delese, which were generated by non-payment of obligations to suppliers who supplied the Delta company and those 300m euros in Delta Company, distributed in various ways through their sisterly and connected persons within Miskovic's empire. How's the little stockholders doing? Not at all. "Deleze" took over all the obligations "Maxia", including court disputes. We heard about the dispute with stakeholders "C-market" and "Delez" respect laws in all countries, so it will do so in Serbia. Jelena Krstovic noted that the appeal of shareholders "C-market" was rejected so that "Delez" will have no problem with the legal dispute over the privatisation of the "C-market". The court completely cleared all Miskovic's debts, turned them on ordinary citizens. He doesn't owe anything anymore. What do they say next from Delta? That it's a Serbian company and that the tax stays here. The exact amount is not yet known because financial accounts are being made. We'll be investing in agrarian, primary fruit and vegetable production. We increase our orchard in chelarev, and the money will also be directed to new technologies in the agrarian. Part of the funding will go into the construction of shopping malls, so it prepares the start of works at the Bulevaro Despot Stefan and on Autocommand. Centres in Banjaluca and Novi Sad are also planned. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, none of this has been fulfilled. The money was pumped out of Serbia, ended in one part in Slovenia, ended in one part in Bulgaria, one part in Cyprus. Nowhere else, the tax has not been paid in Serbia. All lies. It's all a lie to lie. As the Deltas deceive us like that, what does Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic say? "I am sure that the big investments will also be made this year that Serbia will achieve the planned level of investments of three billion direct investments of Belgium's Deles, one of the largest in the last few years. “ This is their largest foreign investment, the sale of assets purchased from the bankruptcy of the state. That's what Gilas boasts about. He also boasted of Mirko Cvetkovic. He also boasted about Boris Tadic. Balsa Bozovic also boasted. That's what this President of the Fiscal Council boasted about. I don't just know if maybe Ces Mekon was involved in this, in a vicious whole story. So none of this has happened. We didn't essentially have those real, real foreign investments in Serbia. Because it's not the same thing when you build a factory in the meadow and hire people in it, so it can't be measured. When you buy a trade chain and hire people who already work in it and show it as a foreign investment, and on that side of the investment money ended up in exotic tax paradises. That's how they led the country until 2012. And that was a little bit. What does Miodrag Kostic say? I do not see anything dramatic in Miskovic's decision, although he admitted that he would prefer to remain in the society of large Serbian businessmen, etc., that I do not read the ex- regime's policy exhibits. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and that was very little for them. It was not just the 2010 Trade Act that changed to make Miskovic richer. Another law has been amended, as it should have been amnesty for all the crimes that he has worked for in the economy, for which he has withdrawn criminal responsibility, and this money that is not small and which Serbia at that time was overly needed, which he has carried out outside Serbia. That same year, the Foreign Exchange Act changed, and according to the 2011 law, Delta could export money from Serbia, advance payment of goods and services, and never import that goods, never import those services, and never return foreign exchange funds to Serbia. Why would he do that, anyway, earning money on the growth of the euro course, the decline of citizens' living standards and the collapse of Serbia's economy. Now, somebody convince me from the former regime that Miskovic had no support for all of this. Let me be persuaded by those of the former regime who would re-rule, above all I mean Gilas and Šolak, without working with Miskovic, that he would repeat all this again in some situation only with another company. No one can convince me. Our job, MPs, is primarily to protect those state authorities who are responsible for our work from any external influences, to expect them to work in accordance with the law, to, in accordance with the law that we have voted, make decisions and regulate what we expected to be regulated when we set them up, to put all the institutions in place and not allow anyone, at any time, to repeat something that Delta's company with Serbia, with the Serbian economy and with Serbian citizens. One very difficult and painful lesson. So, I do not see any of the reasons, since the report is quite correct, exactly described the competences that the Commission has, what they did with these competences in 2019, what their human resources are, what they have plans for the professional improvement of human resources and for the even better work of that Commission, so I do not see any reason why we would not adopt this conclusion proposed by the Committee on Economy at the plenary of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3359	Thank you. Before we move on to the presidents of the parliamentary groups who called for a word, one announcement about today's work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3360	President-in-Office, respected representatives of the Commission for the Protection of Competitiveness, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the topic of protection of competitiveness, although not so inspiring at first sight, but it is a very important topic for the health of the economy, but also for the health of the entire society, in economic, sociological and other respects. If one society wants to develop normally, to progress and to have the desired prosperity, one of the key conditions is an ambience in which all those who want to work will be able to earn and achieve and taste the results of their work, where those worthy will be able to be valorized through the ability to achieve the desired results. This means that those who don't want to work, the unemployed who sleep until noon, will actually not be able to achieve what these first ones achieve. All of this is possible, among other things, if we have legal frameworks and norms that are properly and consistently applied, where whoever wants to be honest and healthy works protects against someone who wants to take a shortcut to the same or greater results. Ensuring the ambience of loyal competition and competitiveness is, in fact, one of these conditions, and if it is disturbed, we lose the possibility of developing dynamics provided by loyal competition or legitimate competition. Pretentious to the monopoly is something that has existed since human species and since any form of business exists, because having a monopoly position means throwing out competition, which means unfairly or illegally ensuring profit, success, victory, whatever it is. That is why this topic, however procedurally it sounds, such as the issue of adopting a Commission report on the protection of competitiveness, is actually very important. Perhaps this topic and this report would be less important if we had truly achieved that degree of protective competitiveness that is desirable or that is characterized or should be characterized by an orderly society, that is, an orderly state and an orderly state apparatus and system. Unfortunately, we have indicators that confirm that this is different. I will remain consistent this time only to talk about what I know and what I know, and I know what happens around me where I live, in New Pazar and in Sandzak space. I will not specify those examples that are more difficult to prove or are not so obvious or that seem relative to the intentions for which they are listed. The issue of TV by Novi Pazar, previously known as Regional Television, is something about competitiveness or anti-competitiveness, i.e. The lack of respect for competition's legality is no longer just an obvious example of brutal violation of the law and illegal conduct and illegal pump-up and robbery of citizens' money, and with this money, obtaining such a monopoly position in the media area in the local-regional for Novi Pazar and the wider region. For years now, and here we have the freshest example of a few days ago, the city administration in Novi Pazar has launched a competition to support media and media projects. In the competition or in the event, 55 million dinars were made available to media who reported to the competition. 19 media entities reported. And imagine what the outcome of the commission's decision was set by the city administration? The division took place in the following way – 85% of these funds, around 46 million were allocated to one TV set, TV set Novi Pazar, or the regional television station Novi Pazar, whose co-founder is the mayor of Novi Pazar. And it's been happening for at least three or four years. I can't believe nobody knows about that. I can't believe this commission and all the other authorities have to wait for me, the MP, to inform them from the parliamentary bench, three or four years later. Sometimes I think that the real information from Novi Pazar and Sandzak can't skip either the Kopalnik, the Golia, the Zlatibor, or the Wet Mountain, that they're so high that they represent such a barrier that they can only reach the truths and half-truths here. So I did a little bit of that, because of the fact that the media in Belgrade, especially television with a national signal, is impossible not to care what's going on south of this mentioned mountain range. Then I came up with another fragrant piece of information that was definitely about what I was talking about earlier. All Belgrade media correspondents, except RTS, who had a correspondent from before, are on the payroll of the same TV, the same political party, the same owners, the same bosses. Well, imagine what an injustice looks like here. So, 46 million dinars are being robbed, almost 400,000 euros from the New Pazar City Administration budgets, i.e. The funds of the citizens of Novi Pazar and that money are financed by the mayor's private television and his political party. Yeah, it's a possible crime. Yes, corruption is possible. But can you figure out how harmful this is not only to competitiveness, not only that these 18 media outlets that only 15% of these funds are going to be able to survive or not survive or reduce their media activity to the number of employees and everything else to a total minimum to survive, it's one aspect of the damage. But this means to steal, to put them in a private company, and then to finance and to keep under the control of people you have already installed for political influence as correspondents of almost all Belgrade media, and thus you actually put such a dense sieve of truths on the Kopalnik-Golia-Goldibor-Mokra Gora line. There's something else I have to confess to you. One of the reasons I personally became involved in politics, even though I had previously performed spiritual functions, and very important, as many know, was in fact one move, a human move, to break or help bring down this barrier of lies that stands in this mountainous masse and which the Sanjay region is kept in the dark of ignorance, uninformed and untrue. Of course, when you only have the lies that come to you, which are paid for by these citizens themselves because of the corruption, the robberies of the budget, pay for their own destruction, pay for their own lies, pay for themselves, then you understand when for years or decades you've had such a circulation of relationships and lies how much prejudice will form. That's why the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are actually someone who's tearing down that wall and we're here to tear down that wall. That you here in the National Assembly, but also the public of Serbia sees that there are Bosniaks who are neither half-trons who would sell faith for dinner, nor those who will push their fingers around either one of you here, individually or collectively. So, already it is about people who love their faith, their nation, who are authentically belonging to their people and their community, they are proud of what they are, but they are also aware that they live in a state where they are not alone, in which there is a majority Serb people with whom they have built neighbourly good relations throughout history and we are proud of such relations, even when conflicts occurred in some war environments, or even crimes themselves, have always been caused by outside, some policy and some poison that has been introduced. That's why we can't and we don't want to deal with this becoming normal. Crime can happen, evil can happen, corruption can happen, robbery can happen, abuse of power can happen. It is in itself something that is bad, something that is evil, but greater evil and much worse than it is to make it normal and to be convinced by their insolence, by their insolence that it is normal. And that after a few years of such faceless robberies and kidnappings, and the Commission responsible for this, the state authorities, is responsible for persecuting thieves, robbers and corruption bearers. Shut up and say it - it's okay, it's been like that over the past few years. If we remain silent, then we have this evil where and those who do not want to deal with corruption and those who do not want to rob their own citizens and people, that at some point they will say, so it is not possible. This is the imposition of new standards, where other honest ones will be forced to say – well, now we too are going to fight to get hold of some piece of power, so let's do so. These days, documents were made public where the former head of the Sjenica municipality donated 830 hectares of land to the Cave. He sat in a bar and signed it like it was his grandfather's. Without one decision, the municipal authorities, without one, absolutely steps of legal procedure, he sat finely, and some foreign company that was once again connected to them in some interesting relations, donated 830 acres of land. All right, so a man decided to commit crime, thought he'd stay in power forever, that he could hide it, but after he found out he was still walking through the Shadow, kabadiahishly using his money and everything he robbed of his people, and that neither the police nor the prosecution were responding, more specifically, allowing him to act that way. Yesterday, at a meeting of the City Assembly in Novi Pazar, during a debate at the Assembly Hall, the director of the House of Culture entered, or they now call it the Cultural Centre, and tried, trying to beat up the opposition committee because he did not like the discussion. So, you've got footage, he's chasing around, he wants to beat people because he's discussing how he doesn't like it. Imagine if some director, some public institutions came into this assembly and now he doesn't like my discussion or I don't know whose it is he's coming to, wants to be physically dealt with. Do you know where the problem is? Did you see it on TV or any media in Belgrade? Well, you didn't see that. Well, you won't even see him. Why? Because all the correspondents of these media in Belgrade are mercenaries, i.e. on the payroll of one man, one political party, more specifically the city authorities themselves. Then you're surprised to see this president of the municipality, you're surprised when I tell you that there's been 15, 20 years, I don't know if there's any rural route, directed by these local authorities in Novi Pazar, Tutin and Sjenica, without the people being robbed. They had two lines, Belgrade, or the Road Directorate, or whoever was already giving money, financing the road, building the road, and local owners are collecting money from the people with stories that those in Belgrade will not waste until money is given to them. Then there's 50 grand, 100 grand. No problem, you get baptized, you're surprised, I know you're surprised, I know this is a newspaper, but this has to be said. These are the naked truths. So whoever wants to get the lists, so that's where the money, the amount, right now in Tutin, the village of Good Deb, is looking to get their money back because they haven't paved their way, etc. So these are terrible things, this is something we have to face. So we have to take down that barrier. We've had a story for years about how someone wants Sandzak to secede, how there are some policies. People, and that story has always been a story of the daily political use and performance of some politicians who wanted to draw attention to themselves, but the worst form of endangering the sovereignty of the country in one space is to keep that space in lie, keep that space in the dark, keep that space in injustice. The worst part is that the people there don't say, rob us of the mayor or the president of the municipality or this party, local or this one. No, but citizens say not to be protected by those from Belgrade they couldn't do it. Well, gentlemen, we have to show, from the National Assembly and from other state authorities that they can't have protection, neither from Belgrade nor the police, nor from the prosecution, nor from the judiciary, and that they can't protect themselves behind partner relations with anyone in a political sense and that they definitely need to cut the tentacles. I am pleased, today, the minister of police in Novi Pazar, which is the second time in recent times, which suggests a determination to proceed with an organized crime that is dangerous and scary only when it has the support of certain policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3361	Thank you. The president of the SDPS parliamentary group, Branimir Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3362	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the Competition Commission, colleagues and colleagues, I became a little confused, and I had to check the agenda point. I'm going to talk about what's on the agenda and I'm not going to use and abuse the agenda point to speak unilaterally some stories that are too propaganda than the topics that need to be discussed today. When we talk about the Commission's Report on Competition Protection, it is important that we discuss it today. This is a comprehensive report and there is always something to be said when we talk about the Report and the eight work of the Competition Protection Commission as one central body dealing with the issue of competitiveness on the market and which has, above all, a task among other things but perhaps most important, to prevent any kind of monopoly on the market. What is the importance of the Commission for the Protection of Competition, i.e. I will say that it is the Commission's competence to take care of the rights and obligations of all market participants. To participate in the creation of rules relating to the protection of competition, to adopt guidelines and guidelines in law enforcement, to monitor and analyse market conditions and to set administrative measures. When economists often speak and quote Adam Smith and his metaphor of an invisible hand that regulates processes on the market, on the free market I see exactly the role of the Competition Protection Commission in providing conditions for that invisible hand to function normally and regulate market movements. This body must first of all be independent and this independence guarantees that it is financed from its own income. The report states that an surplus of 266 million dinars was made in 2019 and 160 million were paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is commendable for all. With all the competencies that I have mentioned earlier, I must say that another important role is the Commission's role in protecting the Convention and what it does in continuity to develop awareness of the need to protect competition. This is an educational role that is inevitable and which the Commission is successfully performing. But when we talk about this educational role, I do not only think about the process in which it is directed towards citizens, according to public opinion, but also about the employees of the Commission itself and the video report, that in 2019, employees participated in 16 workshops and conferences abroad, and I think it will positively affect their expertise or work in the future. How important is this topic? There are many ways to prove it, but we usually talk about it in some critical times, that is, how important the Commission is, we see its work, we see only when there is no competition on the market, when the monopoly appears. At that time, the damage is immeasurable both for all economic operators and for consumers, as well as for end-users of goods and services. For the successful work of the Commission, it is, of course, necessary to co-operate with all institutions and the nature of the work related to the Public Procurement Agency, the Commission for the Protection of Rights, the State Auditing Institution, the judicial authorities and the executive authorities. To protect public interest in the best possible way, it is important that these institutions work in harmony. International co-operation is also important. You said, earlier, Mr Peric, that the Commission and the report said, had good co-operation with the Italian Competition Protection Commission, and in any case, as I said earlier, I am sure that it will contribute to the training of employees in the Commission for Further Work. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, it is widely known, favours Serbia's European path, Serbia's EU accession, and in this sense it is important that our legislation be brought into line with EU legislation. It is this issue, too, that the issue of competition protection may be one of the most sensitive economic and perhaps most complex issues when we talk about the accession path, i.e. Serbia's accession negotiations with the EU. We expect successful work from the Commission's representatives in the negotiating group on Chapter 8, which concerns competition policy in Chapter 10, relating to the information society and the media and in Chapters 14 and 15, relating to transport and energy. To praise, on the other hand, what our legislation is now quite in line with EU legislation and this is confirmed in the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress. At the beginning of the presentation, Mr Peric concluded that our Commission is a young, young body dealing with this job compared to other European Commissions. It is certainly young when compared to the German regulatory body that was created in 1954, and indeed this is the case in the EU in 1980, but on the other hand, it may not be young when compared to Luxembourg, where such a single body was established in 2007, so two years after it was formed in Serbia, and general Luxembourg is one successful market economy with the largest GDP per capita in Europe. We can be proud that Serbia is one of the few countries that has treated this topic in the early 20th century with its own regulations. Already early in the 20th century, there were laws dealing with protecting competition in Serbia. When we talk about the importance of a healthy economy, we need to know that competition on the market is what democracy is in politics, but on the other hand, we need to be aware that perfect competition exists only in theory, in practice it is difficult to achieve. There are many obstacles on that path to make it perfect and there is always a need to fight the monopoly. Monopoly is an antidote to healthy competition and monopoly is only popular where wealth is obtained with someone's help, with the help of privilege and where it only reaches the monopoly. When we talk about preventing monopolies, this phenomenon is very important and, above all, it refers to three key things on the market, which are prices, product quality and services and freedom of choice. Any monopolies in that situation will increase prices because the buyer has no alternative. It thus increases its profits, on the other hand, the consumer is forced to pay more than he would otherwise pay if there were competition. When there is healthy competition, the situation is on the side of consumers. It is therefore important that the Commission, not only the Commission but also other state authorities, constantly monitor market movements to prevent illegal association and the creation of monopoly. It's similar when we talk about quality. If there is a monopoly by one manufacturer or service provider, in which case it will not take much care of quality, it will not have the motive to provide quality services or to make quality products, it will not even think about improving quality, but when there is healthy competition, or when there are more manufacturers or service providers, it is a good motive for everyone to coordinate quality with prices to attract as many customers as possible. Another danger is the constant approach from monopolies, and the fact that consumer choices are often constrained in such situations, and freedom of choice is an effective mechanism that pressures manufacturers to take care of both the price and the quality, i.e. the consumer's affinity. From the Commission's report on the protection of competition, I must single out and commend the organisation of public debates dedicated to the new law, which aims to improve competition policy right now. Also, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications has educated a working group that works on the draft law and I hope that the new law will give, above all, better mechanisms to the Commission that it can react on the market, but that it will only improve business on the market. They are listed in the report and the procedures launched by the Competition Protection Commission, and the analyses carried out by the Commission and their objective are, in fact, better insight into the state of competition on the market where certain parameters are seen in one, I would say, an objective way. It is precisely these parameters that can sometimes be a warning of the possibility of a potential restriction or distortion of competition on the market. At the end of last year, a video broadcast by the Commission was broadcast. It promotes the mechanism of the circuit program. You said something about that. He's caused a lot of public attention. What is the programme, that is, the mechanism of the circuit program? This is complete or partial immunity for cancellation for participants who declare a restrictive agreement on the market. In 2019, as far as we can see in the report, there was no such application, in 2018 one, but I hope that the Commission will continue to continue to promote one such mechanism that has lived in other developed countries and has proved to be good. I purposely from the report, although the report is truly substantial, exhaustive, did not want to set any positive examples, not one negative example. I don't think that might be correct, maybe it would, but it could be viewed as trendy if I said it from here. The MPs are protected by immunity for the spoken word behind this speaker, and it gives them the right to criticise. Often they criticise and unwarrantedly, they often speak falsely. It's easy to accuse anyone, but it has to prove it and really prove it. We can't look unilaterally. It is easy to accuse journalists of working on their home televisions or newspapers and of being correspondents of other journalists and television. It's all easy, but we need to look at the conditions in which journalists work. I worked as a journalist, I know what the pay is. I have a lot of colleagues at the bar who are journalists. They're hard to live for. Imagine someone who's graduated from college who has to take care of his behavior, his diction, his appearance and works for a salary that's bigger than the minimum. Everyone asks to be a correspondent, to have another extra job, and it is incorrect to honor them for wanting to do more to earn more. Of course, maybe someone can't understand it from their position, which is pretty easy, but I say again on purpose I didn't set any positive or negative examples. I wanted to point out the importance of the Competition Protection Commission, and I wanted to point out the importance of the existence of healthy competition in our society and that we have to deal carefully with this topic and work continuously in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3363	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has the deputy president of the Parliamentary Group, Unity Serbia, Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3364	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Competition Commission, today we are discussing your report, the Commission's Report on Competition Protection for 2019. A unique Serbia believes that you, that independent regulatory body, are an important control factor in the functioning of our domestic market, and therefore our Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote for this report in the voting day. We in Unity Serbia believe that competition is some kind of competition, competition, rivalry between individuals, entrepreneurs, among business entities for a better position on the market, to create as much revenue as possible, to acquire new customers, to simply compete and to fight for the business interests of these business entities. Namely, the free market must be a place where there is room for everyone, and how much of it will have to depend, first of all, on the managerial, entrepreneurial abilities, on innovation, quality, prices and many other factors. The opposite of a competitive market is a monopoly. Monopoly is a market situation where on one side, on the supplyer side, you have one seller who has the greatest impact on the price formation and product quality in the position in which it is. On the other hand, there are several customers, who, unfortunately, are unable to choose bidders because of such a situation, nor to have a significant impact on price and quality. Simply, the monopolitical situation on the market involves maximising the monopolies' profits. The Competition Protection Commission was established in 2006 with a basic task of caring for the protection of competition, i.e. the protection of the free market. Although this way of regulating the market through an independent regulatory body, let's say, is relatively new for us here in Serbia, such regulation is not new in the world. Somewhere the cornerstone of it, the beginning of it was 1911, when the famous Rockefeller's Standard Oil was broken into as many as 34 companies. Today, these regulatory bodies in the world have great power. How much power, for example, the EU Anti-Monopoly Commission shows us the case from 2017, when the EU Anti-Monopolitan Commission punished the company Alphabet, the owner of Google for, if I am not mistaken, a record of 2.42 billion euros for abuse of dominant position. I say, with the Commission formed in 2006, such bodies were formed earlier in the environment. Let's say in the Czech Republic and Hungary in 1991, Romania and Slovenia, if I'm not mistaken in 1997. From 2006 to today, we can also make remarks and praises in the work of the Competitiveness Protection Commission and some MPs have talked about it, but what I would say here is that the Competitiveness Protection Commission is an independent regulatory body that has received a positive report from the European Commission that monitors your work through Chapter 8 in the EU accession process, which is also important and important. How important fair competition is on a particular market is also telling us the definition of the European Commission that I mentioned a little while, which says that competition enables the efficient use of limited social resources, enables greater and faster technological development, innovation, lower prices, higher quality, variety of products, and ultimately, what is most important, increases productivity. The direct consequence of the competitive market is cheaper goods of higher quality for customers and that is what is most important. Of course, anyone who fights on that free market, each of these competitors tends to win as much space as possible on the market, which is also natural, if they can reach that monopoly status, because the race on the market is in the ultimate line of the profit race, and hence, that anti-monopoly fight is some major struggle, I would say, cats and mice. What's important is to say that you work under the Competition Protection Act and recognize two different forms of injury to competition. These are restrictive agreements and abuse of a dominant position. You have done a lot of cases in 2019, about 80 cases, but as far as injury to competition is concerned, there you have completed three cases related to restrictive agreements and seven cases related to abuse of dominant position. In public, we could hear more of your reactions to these negative phenomena of free market distortions. It is also known that your reaction to the largest importers, distributors and sports shoe sellers who, of course, agreed with each other on the price of that sports footwear that was multiple, I would amazingly say, higher than the purchase price where those sports shoes worked in countries such as Vietnam, Bangladesh etc. You then punished those economic operators with just over 45 million dinars. However, the biggest such sanction was when you responded to the abuse of the dominant position in the ice cream market and when you did the injury, I would not now mention the name, punish almost 302 million dinars or 2.8m euros. As far as the Commission's work is concerned, the public often thinks that you are influencing, that is to say, the relationship between your Commission and competitors, which is simply not the case. People find it difficult to accept that the monopoly itself is not punishable, but that it is only punishable to abuse that monopoly, or your task is to make sure that there are equal conditions for everyone and to give the chance to competitors that, based on their abilities, they take up a certain part of the space on that market, or the Commission does not, as I would say, have this Robinhud role to protect small from large ones. It's not the Commission's job. The Commission's job is to create the same conditions for all, and as anyone will manage the free market, it is practically a matter that depends on the ability of business operators. Of course, any restriction and injury to competition leads to negative phenomena such as the asphyxiation of innovation, such as the closure of the market for other participants, especially those less and such situations can cover the entire branches and sectors of the economy, industry, etc., but what is important, there is no development of the economy, there is suffocation of small and medium-sized enterprises, and it simply stagnates everything. Perhaps the best example of these negative phenomena on the market is and can be illustrated through the agreement of bidders in the procurement process and this falls within one of the most serious forms of injury to competition. Of course, again at the end of the day, it's the customer who suffers the greatest coincidences of such phenomena. We in Unity Serbia certainly support the fight against such negative market activities, so to speak. What I would say is that there is not a single market economy in the world that has no competition restriction in one segment, it is only a question of when this restriction will be revealed and how it will be sanctioned. Serbia is nothing special compared to other such countries and other markets, that is, what I wanted to say is that in Serbia the degree of competition is nothing more than in some other even more developed markets and economies of the world, and the reason is because we have harmonised our regulations with European and, let me say, world legislation in this area. What I'd say is that you have some instruments, we mentioned punishment, but it's not about punishment. The goal is to bring market and competitiveness to order in the market, that what my fellow MP said a little bit – competitiveness in the economy is like democracy in politics, and simply, to bring things right. You have other measures, not only penalties, let's say, to ban participation in public procurement or other market activities for a certain period of time, due to frequent injuries, so to speak, rules of market behaviour. To sum up, we from the Single Serbia are in favour of functioning the free market, creating as much competitiveness as possible in our economy and our market, because in this way businesses in our country are doing business and are focused on quality, on creating competitive prices, on innovation, and thus will be competitive not only on the domestic market, but also on the foreign market, and thus strengthen the economic and economic development of our country. For these reasons, the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3365	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, Rosalia Ekres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3366	The esteemed chairperson, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council, the Competition Protection Commission was established by the Competition Protection Act more than 15 years ago as a professional and independent body of exceptional importance for improving the protection and security system of competition in the Republic of Serbia's market. The Commission is tasked with taking steps with special attention, without discrimination, to effectively implement the provisions prescribed by the Competition Protection Act. After careful consideration of the report submitted by the Competition Protection Commission for 2019, which is in front of us and discussed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, is the 14th report submitted by the Commission to the National Assembly. As an authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, supporting the Commission's activities and measures so far, I would like to apostrophe the following areas, first with the aim of strengthening its integrity, as well as further improving the system of protection and security of competition. First of all, I would stress the importance of education and co-operation with EU bodies to protect competition and strengthen the Commission's professional capacities, as well as the administrative court's professional capacities in relation to the importance of protecting competition, which settles disputes under the company's submissions against the Commission's solutions. It is important to inform and educate the general public about the importance of protecting competition. For the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, harmonisation of national legislation with EU rules is of paramount importance, in this case, in areas of competition protection. Therefore, we are actively monitoring the work of the negotiating group for Chapter 8. – Competition policy, as well as activities in the negotiation process for Chapter 5. – Public procurement and in particular Chapter 23. - Justice and basic rights. Efficient application of competition protection policy implies that in the next period, the Commission's cooperation on the protection of competition with other state bodies, such as the Public Procurement Office, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the DRI and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and in particular non-state bodies, such as Consumer Protection Associations. It is important because of the fact that the Public Procurement Act incorporates the principles of ensuring competition and the prohibition of discrimination, as well as the specific powers conferred on this law by the competition protection body, i.e. The Commission, that economic operators may impose measures on the prohibitions of participation in public procurement procedures if they are found to have injured competition. Reports on the audits carried out by the DRI on public procurement in the public sector contain a large number of irregularities and significant values, as well as findings that only one bidder who has no competition appears in a large number of cases in public procurement proceedings. The summary review of the Commission's activities for 2019 shows that the number of completed cases is significant, although several tenths has been transferred to work in the following year. Data are opinions of both the draft regulations and the applicable regulations that have an impact on the protection of competition and three extremely significant sectoral analyses have been made. The aim of these analyses is to get a better insight into the state of competition in those markets for which basic flows or for which price flows or other circumstances warn about the possibility of a restriction, distortion or prevention of competition. We look forward to the great interest of the business and academic community in improving the legal framework of competition policy, as well as their comments strengthened the Commission's intentions that co-operation with the business and academic community is the right way to improve the environment that will provide equal conditions for all market participants. To conclude, the SVM parliamentary group supports the Commission's work report for 2019, as well as the Commission's general activities to protect and improve competition in the Republic of Serbia, through the continued improvement of co-operation with independent bodies and state bodies and organisations. We particularly support international co-operation, as well as activity in the process of joining the Republic of Serbia and public awareness-raising activities on the importance of competition protection policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3367	Thank you. The word comes from MP Djordje Milicevic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3368	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I will try to be relatively brief, given that we are limited in time, so that other colleagues can speak. So, competition policy, as we know it today, is a relatively new phenomenon, although its elements have been known since ancient times. The development of modern competition policy began on the North American continent while modern anti-monopolis policy began to apply between World War II in Europe. Competition policy relies on the next four postulates - banning price deals, controlling company mergers, limiting dominant positions and state aid. Competition policy is very important for citizens and has certain positive effects - it knocks down prices, improves the quality of prices and services and increases, above all, freedom of choice, which is of great importance and importance. Our vision is to establish a market where all participants under equal conditions will fight for the consumer's affection and loyalty and quality and price, respecting the obligations that have been established, above all, by law, which are defined by law. Our country has come a long way with regard to the development of competition policy. The first regulations, I will remind you, were brought to this area hundreds of years ago, I think in 1922 in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, then during Yugoslavia, SFRY, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Commission for the Protection of Competition established by the Competition Protection Act. The law was passed in 2005. It started working in 2006 as an independent and independent organisation and has legal personality status. For his work he corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to which he reports an annual report on the work that we are talking about today. The Commission also has financial independence. It is funded, it is very important to point out, from its own incomes, and brings an annual financial plan to which consent is given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If the annual account of income and expenditure determines that the total revenue generated by the Commission is higher than the expenditure incurred, the difference shall be paid to the Republic of Serbia after the allocation of the reserve funds. The power to protect competition on the market of the Republic of Serbia in order to make economic progress for society and consumers, then to establish the position and authority of the Commission, has been established by the Competition Protection Act. Last changes and additions, I think they were passed in 2013, through a series of government regulations. The Commission also has an obligation to apply properly the criteria stemming from the rules governing competition on the EU market. The law defines infringements of competition as acts or actions of market participants which, for the purpose or effect or may have significant restrictions, distortions or prevention of competition. The forms of injury to competition are the restrictive agreement defined by Article 10. Laws and abuses of dominant position, defined by Article 16. The law. In its work, the Commission is working with regulatory bodies, state authorities, organisations, civil sector, colleges and has concluded agreements with them. Today we are discussing and considering the Commission's work on competition for 2019. The Commission, in line with the Report which we had the opportunity to look into the implementation of a number of activities related to harmonisation of regulations and harmonisation of practices with the EU, gave an opinion on the proposals for regulations and applicable regulations which have an impact on competition in the market, co-operated with international institutions and other bodies to protect competition. In 2019, the Commission achieved a positive financial result, which is particularly commendable. The revenues made in 2019, as well as in previous years, were sufficient to finance the Commission's work, but also to transfer the surplus income, what I spoke about briefly, into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The Competition Protection Commission plays a significant role in harmonising our legislation with EU law, above all for Chapter eight - competition policy, but it has been an active participant for a number of other chapters, those relating to transport, energy, public procurement, the judiciary and fundamental rights. The European Commission's report says that recommendations for 2019 have been partially implemented and there is a certain level of applicability. During 2019, the draft competition law, which would introduce new institutes, rights of competition in our legislation, has been developed to remove precisely the ambiguities and difficulties that exist in the application of the existing law and to continue the harmonisation process of our legislation with the legal assets of the EU. The Commission's task in protecting competition is to protect competition, i.e. to create equal conditions for everyone on the market, and we are absolutely sure that the Commission will realise this goal as well as so far, and in the future. The SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3369	Thank you. The word has the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Djordje Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3370	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the Competition Protection Commission, the Commission was established in 2005 by the then Competition Protection Act, and it is now our first chance to discuss the Report for the previous year, i.e. for 2019. I hope that we will soon be here in Parliament for 2020, that is, in the National Assembly plenary hall. It is certainly good news that we will establish a new practice that will be applied here for the next years, i.e. that we have the opportunity to talk about work every year, not just your Commission, but other independent bodies that operate in our country. Reminders for the sake of this, we have recently had representatives of other regulatory, or independent bodies here in parliament. We had representatives of the Fiscal Council. We had representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Securities Commission, REM and others, who also presented their reports here in the National Assembly plenary room, and that, I say once again, is good news because we will bring one spirit of transparency into the whole process of the work of the National Assembly and the work of your bodies, your regulatory bodies. The aim of the Competition Protection Commission is to make it easier for citizens who follow us through small screens to see what it is doing today, which it deals with, to prevent any form of monopoly in any economic branch. When you have a monopoly, then you have one situation that brings benefits only to the one for which the monopoly is created, or to the economic subject for which the monopoly is created, and everyone else suffers and it destroys the tissue of a particular branch of the economy when there is a monopoly anywhere in our country. We had the opportunity to see what it looked like from 2000 to 2012 when and how we were in a position to know that certain laws were adapted to tycoons and people who thus used such a monopoly position on the market and made enormous wealth. Let's remember that we had a situation that former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas's firm "Multicom Group" had an absolute monopoly on issuing seconds on RTS, from selling these advertising spaces, the panorama in Belgrade. You had an absolute monopoly in that economic branch, which choked the market, and that wasn't good. However, at the time, the representatives of the Commission were not very zealous in reacting, pointing to some things, to problems. Today, regulatory bodies in our country and how they have the right and obligation to say when there are certain problems. We had a chance to talk to the members of the Fiscal Council here. We had an open dialogue. Pavle Petrovic raised open criticism about the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to the work of the ruling coalition today, and it was perfectly normal for us to face arguments and from here was addressed to all those measures they said were not good. We here from our ruling coalition presented answers, arguments, and we had a normal dialogue that had not been applied here before in practice. When we talk about the Commission's work on protecting competition, we should certainly commend your work in the previous year, in the year before 2019. You certainly had a lot of work that year. Six opinions on the laws. The executive government was going out to meet, changing legal solutions, proposals, certain restrictive agreements you were talking about today. Everything where you felt you needed to react there certainly our executive authority had enough hearing to change these things. You've had two sectoral analyses, you've participated in a lot of forums. You have had one live activity, when it comes to co-operation with the EU, with other international addresses, and it is certainly commendable that the representatives of the Commission are actively involved in the work of our country's negotiating platform in collaboration with the EU, i.e. Chapter eight - competition policy, which should certainly be opened quickly, i.e. to complete the negotiation process. The European Union through its latest report and how it commends our efforts in our country, when it comes to harmonising these laws concerning the protection of competition. It is certainly a good thing that Serbia is doing a lot and harmonising its legislation and harmonising with EU countries. In this respect, your work is very important. Of course, what is important is that we have heard here before, which is that soon a new law will be passed on to protect competition, and everyone will be a newspaper and will certainly facilitate the work of the Competition Commission. We hope that it will soon be adopted here at the National Assembly. When we talk, therefore, about the work of regulatory bodies, of course, that we must mention that sometimes in the not so long ago we haven't had the opportunity to talk about issues that are important here, because if then regulatory bodies could work as freely as they can today and work, we could hear that, let's say, the Anti-Corruption Agency did not, be careful, not a single letter came out when Dragan Gilas of 70,000 euros in income reached up to a hundred million euros in his accounts through his companies. Today when our clerk doesn't report the property in time for criminal charges, it's a newspaper. So, we've introduced a normal practice that no matter who's in power has to answer if they break the law, even if it's as banal as not reporting property in time. In the past, therefore, it was not a case, it was not simply normal for the Agency to react, because they felt that they were above the law, that those who passed the laws and who exercise executive power should not be subject to these same laws. So the laws were obviously written only for the people, and for the representatives of the authorities it wasn't the case. Therefore, the Anti-Corruption Agency did not report back then and explained how this was acquired by Dragan Gilas so much wealth. The fiscal council also did not report back then, so to say that it is possible for us to be in debt at a green interest rate of 7% in 2011. Look, in 2011, Serbia was in debt at 7% green interest rates, so much of the 2011 bond we took. Today, when we refinance that same bond with a 1.09% interest, it's actually an indicator of how much Serbia is on one, let's say, more stable legs, how healthy the economy we have today, and it's absolutely the fact that, of course, the result of SNS and Alexander Vukic, above all. It was just, therefore, my intention to remind the citizens how many times the regulatory bodies had no right to normally, reasonedally state their views, to hear the opinion of the Fiscal Council, when we really had the opportunity to hear that something that was not good is being presented here and said. That wasn't the case. Today, Pavle Petrovic comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and says he disagrees with certain measures, our MPs give him answers. We have not, however, heard, been an interesting debate here in parliament, so that they disagree with the fact that 100 euros is given to every adult citizen of Serbia, and all members of the Fiscal Council have, watch out, applied for 100 euros. It was really interesting to hear, therefore, the discussion of Pavel Petrovic who could not explain how what they believe citizens should not get they themselves believe they belong to them. There have indeed been a lot of situations here, but again, in one spirit of dialogue we can talk about today, which was certainly not the case before. Also, the Competition Protection Commission may have been able to say something about how we had a full monopoly on RTS when Gilas's companies "Multicom Group" sold seconds. So she didn't answer anywhere at that age, even though it was meant to be discussed openly. Today, I say once again, all institutions can do their jobs freely and that is something that we and in the next period will certainly have here in the National Assembly and generally in the dialogue that we really want to lead and that in the right way we show that today there really is a culture of dialogue, and not, as some respect us, that there is a dictatorship here, when we see from the example that while they were in power you couldn't expect anyone to do their job in a civilized, normal way, without being sanctioned for their actions that would possibly be against those authorities at the time. Once again, Serbia looks completely different today than before 2012. From 2012 to today, much has changed. Some today wonder, and they wonder -- that Serbia is the first one in Europe for weeks at a rate of vaccines, how in 2020 Serbia ended a year with only 1% of GDP falling. So the best results in Europe have been demonstrated in previous years when it comes to economics. Of course we always have to agree and explain to the citizens that nothing would have happened if we hadn't brought a serious package of structural reforms in 2012, that we hadn't seriously tightened the belt, that we hadn't devoted ourselves to solving those accumulated problems that have been behind us for years. Some of the results we are very proud of are certainly in 2020, to remind citizens of Serbia, the decline of only 1% of GDP, the smallest in Europe, in 2020, industrial production increased even as compared to 2019 by 0.4%, 2020, increased exports compared to 2019. Inflation is stable at 1.6%, although we had a year of crisis, the year when many inflations in Europe went far beyond those parameters that were in 2019 and all in the year of the biggest crisis from 1929 to today. So, you've had a crisis year in which Serbia has shown how important it was to have a strong arrest, to have that whole reform package that preceded us today that we can boast of good results. Our Government and Resolute Minister Sinisa Mali recently presented this to the European Commission or the EU strategic document for the next three years, which will be the cornerstone of everything the Ministry of Finance and the general government of the Republic of Serbia will do in the coming period, so we are talking about a document that provides for 24 major reforms, as in the next three years ahead of our country in eight key areas. Economic growth and employment is every key to all these reforms and will be realised in the coming years. It certainly stressed in the document that Serbia will work most to reduce the rate of our people's departure abroad. We'll work on getting them back here to Serbia. We showed that last year when 400,000 young people returned at the time of the crisis that it was possible to find jobs here and keep them here and not let them look for happiness elsewhere today. The accent will be put, above all, on the health sector because the health sector and that we need to strengthen in order to bring our salaries in line with European salaries and thus certainly get closer to that quality of life, and that will certainly be the measure that will prevent healthcare professionals from leaving Serbia mass and it is indeed done. Not to remind you that we and how we raised our salaries to health workers, that we gave through several tranches of assistance in the previous year, and that was certainly something to praise. The document also states it will be a matter of shortening large-scale procedures when it comes to business in the Republic of Serbia. We will try to reduce all those bureaucratic obstacles to a minimum in order to keep the business environment in Serbia at European level and thus manage to keep that competition and keep our people's competitiveness, our companies, at one level that should be satisfactory here. Agriculture also states that through the accumulation of properties, the commissions next year will try to also increase the competitiveness of our farmers. Fifty-three billion dinars is the 2021 budget. It's really three times the budget that we took over eight years ago. Let's say, therefore, big subsidies are also planned in agriculture. Thirty-eight million dollars will be put to our farmers through various grants available next year. I say once again, in a year of crisis, we show that we can and we have to do much better than we did before. It also states in this strategic document that investment in the energy sector will continue, that we will also try to fix that picture, to increase the share of renewable energy sources in our electricity production. Of course, we will put the accent on the protection of rivers and these mountainous areas that were previously covered and how much controversy. This government, by protecting those rivers that were the subject of controversy, shows that and how socially responsible it is to approach all the problems ahead of us. To mention, too, that President Aleksandar Vukic almost, the other day, had a press conference announcing ambitious projects when it comes to rail road infrastructure. We'll go from Belgrade to Novi Sad in 27 minutes next year. It is certainly something that people should be told and told specifically about the programmes of what we are up for and why we want this policy of uncompromising the fight against crime and corruption and the policies of accelerated development to continue to be leading here, and that all those policies that are trying to stop it, so to prevent it. In Parliament, we have a chance to talk about it. We need to remind the citizens of Serbia how much we have done and what we plan to do, and what we had until 2012. When we talk about this period that was behind us, we must certainly say again, to simply warn people, who are the people who are today saying that Serbia is not going in the right direction, who are those who respect us for not doing a good job for Serbia today. These are people surrounded by tycoon Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, who are shamefully going out in front of the masses and saying that they would do something better and that they would lead this country better, with all those 10-15 000-euro rolls on their hands, and thus trying to suggest that some time eight years ago it was better for Serbia, that what we used to have was better than what we have today. They're so embarrassingly telling us that it's better to be, to have 400,000 people on the streets than today when you have as many new employees. They're telling us that it's better to have 35 kilometers of highways that were built in their time than 350 we do today. If it was better, here I come from Zlatibor, 4.5 hours it took me to come to this tall home from Zlatibor, today in two and a half hours you're here. By Požega you will have a highway in full profile by the end of the year. We're talking about programs, they're talking constantly about nagging our country. They tell us the same people who have devastated the state, that they should return to power again, that they should rule and that they should not offer any programme, no solutions, not saying anything that the citizens would have heard of simply hearing something they stood for. We came to power when we presented a reform programme in 2012, "The White Paper of the SNS", for Serbia's recovery, then remember, it was our pre-election programme, we offered people programmes, we offered what we wanted to do in Serbia, and for that we gave citizens plebiscite support. Today, they are offering us, I have been following in the media these days, some dry statements, Zelenovic says, we are offering Serbia, he says we should go to the elections before the election to choose who will be the opposition. Since they cannot agree who is due to lead the opposition today, they will say that to the citizens, to go out, to organise the elections, we spend hundreds of millions of dinars on elections to choose their candidate who will oppose Alexander Vukic and the SNS. You can imagine that today in Serbia there are people who want to come to power, but they are not so capable of agreeing with each other who they are going to run for office but also that responsibility they want to transfer to the citizens. You absolutely have a situation where a minority who doesn't even have a censorship tells us how they'd like to run the country, so they'd better do some things than SNS does today. We say to them, "Bring out the programs, come out in front of us with the programs, say, "It's no good, we'd do it better." But they don't have it because they know they don't have it, because they know that absolutely every citizen will remind them that they've had a chance and they haven't done anything all those years. Also, the latest nonsense I have heard from our opposition is that constitutional reforms of the legislation, which are to be reminded, should be postponed quickly to speed up Serbia's path to the EU. They are therefore seeking that the EU insists on these changes to our legislative framework in order to enable, as they say, even greater independence of the judiciary, and if we have had the opportunity to talk about it, and that the judiciary here is more than independent. But again, we want to bring all these standards into line, we want to stand before the citizens of Serbia, say that we have done everything we can, to join the European family of people as soon as possible. They say, "All these things should be hitched until they enter the congregation." Watch out, so the assembly can't work until they're here. When they are there, then we will be able to talk about everything, until then we need to be paralyzed, to be blocked because that's why Dragan Gilas is not sitting in Skuština today, and that's a great pity for the citizens of Serbia. We really need to talk about all this to remind citizens who these people are today saying that Serbia is not going in the right direction. These are the people who have made this country sick, and we will always repeat that. We won't stop talking. Some say you're bored with those stories. Of course we want to warn people to see which side the danger comes from who wants to take over our country. Those who robbed her, those who devastated her, who left their debts behind, who tasked the state that we were 75% of the public debt. Today when we've brought everything below the level of the Mastrict, we can talk about these reforms, we can say that we're the first in Europe by the number of vaccines, that we're the absolute state with the best current state of economy, and that wouldn't be if it wasn't for Alexander Vukic and SNS. After all, what I particularly want to highlight, which is an important topic, and there's a lot of talk these days. When you have strong Serbia, when we have a stable financial situation, then Serbia can help its compatriots in the environment, then Serbia can be there, a roof for our entire people who and how it looks at our country when it comes to the Serbian national interest. Before that was not the case, we should not have mentioned either Jasenovac, Jadovno, or Storm, or Flash, or Koshara, anywhere where Serbs died, where Serbs fought for freedom, you should not have mentioned it until 2012. That may be worse than the economy they've destroyed. They killed national pride. We were told that we were butchers, that we were the ones who should be sprayed here with ashes and that we were the ones who were supposed to apologize, and they weren't allowed to mention any of the only Serbian victims. You couldn't hear anything about anything that was of Serbian national interest, on national television, in the media by a representative of the government. And today when we talk about this, he can honor what anyone wants and President Vukic and tell us who sold Kosovo, those who stamped Kosovo's independence like Jeremic with that idiotic question in front of the International Court of Justice, they tell us that we are traitors, and that they are patriots who have filled their pockets. In their day, nothing on the agenda was to be mentioned. We watched "The Dar from Jasenovac" a few days ago on Saturday. All of Serbia, the whole of Republika Srpska, Montenegro, the Serbian people in Montenegro, cried. Everyone was in front of the TV at eight o'clock. We've seen the loss of our people silenced for 76 years. We shouldn't have mentioned our victims. For 76 years, they've suppressed every mention of everything we've had of the opportunity to see. Serbia cried, millions of tears went away that night for millions of Serbs slaughtered. That's not what we were supposed to talk about. I want to say because even though I don't want to politicize this story, I want to bring any stranger into the whole tragedy that happened to our people, but I have to say, Gaga Antonijevic, the director, said -- some of them couldn't, some of them couldn't, Alexander Vukic was bold and could. They shouldn't have mentioned Jasenovac. It could have been recorded before, no one could have gone on about it, while today we have the opportunity to talk about both Jasenovac and Jadovna and Jasterbarska and all our sites and to talk about how much our people in the region are at risk, so that some might not think it's something that's the past. It's not the past. (President: Comrade Dabić, bring the end. Time's up. Last year you had a 331 attack on Serbs. Let me just mention one more thing. It is important to say, although some would say it is behind us, that we should turn to co-existence, so people, in the previous year 331 attacks on Serbs you had in Croatia, is Jasenovac something that is the past or what is the present? And today you have people who want to do the same. And today you have people who want to war against the Serbian people, you have announcements that they would fight against the Serb people, announce that they would abolish the Republika Srpska to finish what they started with the Storm and the Jasenovac. Indeed, by the time we got to the SNS authorities, there was no need to talk about these things. Today we have a chance to talk about it and we want to say that strong Serbia, strong Serbia, is the only guarantee that such things will never happen again to our people in Croatia or in BiH, in Kosovo, Montenegro, or anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3371	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3372	I thank the chairman. Dear representatives of the Competitiveness Commission, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic. I come from Srlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was selected on the list Aleksandar Vucic – For our children and as an MP I represent the USS in the Serbian Parliament. I've always talked about specific problems now and before for those laws that are being passed and what should be done. Earlier, and also now specifically related to this report, I will say, and that is always said, the problem of our southeast Serbia, the problem of small environments, the problem of our people, farmers, peasants living in the country and from the village. We are all witnessing that here we are talking about the results of both our ministry and the government, which can be seen, but we always have to say some things, things that are not heard here, and we need to know. As far as livestock, agriculture, dairy, the big problem is with all of us living in southeastern Serbia, dairy, or places where our agricultural producers, our people dealing with livestock, are supposed to sell milk so that tomorrow they can buy basics for their lives because of that. As for livestock and dairy, it is now a big problem, because earlier, in particular in the municipality from which I come, Svrljig, we had a milkmaker, which was taken over by "Niška mlekar" in 1995, and in 2013, with the help of the state of Serbia, the milkmaker started working again, employed 40 people, we had nearly 30,000 liters of milk delivered daily. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/35 of 19 December 2016 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 as regards the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council The situation has come to buy a large producer, as well as a "Niška mlekara", as well as a "Novosadska mlekara", as well as a "Zečarska mlekara" and that is when the problem begins. After buying the "Low Milkies" the dairy shop closes, the workers are fired, in our small places now there is no way that our people can sell milk, that they can live on it. But very soon after that, "Niška mlekara" also closes, jobs are lost, and there are now 20-30 workers from 300 workers, because there is a sales centre for those who bought both "Niška mlekara" and "Zecarska" and "Novosadska" and closed them. Now there are no 300 workers, now there are 30 workers, and there's nothing going on. There's a competition problem now. Those who are now buying milk from our producers, since there is no competition, no one is coming there now, the problem is where to sell our milk, and we are always talking about healthy food, healthy environment, quality products from these areas, because we, like Svrljig, like Bela Palanka, and that part of Southeast Serbia, are recognized for quality food, by squeamish cheese, squirm milk, hatsaw, belmus. Now there's only a few stories, but no results. We invest in livestock, we invest in dairy, there are opportunities, but look at you from the Commission now, how to solve the problem, because someone's given to buy out those milkers and someone shut it down. So what now? It's now a task for you as the Competitiveness Protection Commission. It takes the most people there to work, but someone who bought it now closes it, took the market and, as Marijan Risticevic says, we come to the fact that it is better to introduce it than to produce it. We're coming up with something better than ours. Therefore, my fellow Members and you who are in this Competitiveness Protection Commission should work on this. We must preserve what is ours. We need to help this farmer of ours and that peasant of ours who's fighting in every way to stay there. We must help our small environments such as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Babusnica, Prepolje and other municipalities. But how do you help them? They need to be allowed to live there from their work, to buy them products, to produce them, because they're really good quality, geographical origin, everything they need. It's all in place, but, bad guy, when someone comes in who's got big money, buys it, closes it, and now what? Should we take it from the side? Do you want us to import from the side? Where will our people work for you? That's what I've always talked about, and I think that's what it takes to say, both here and from this place. I've talked about it before and asked for some things to be resolved. In particular, there is now an object that was restored in 2012 and where the funds of the Serbian state were used. This facility isn't operational now, it's all closed, and we want the progress of our agriculture. That's where you're supposed to work. There you should protect our agricultural producers and ensure that as many milkers as possible, come, take, buy, compete who buys quality milk, because nature has given us everything, we are here in the Assembly to talk about it and that the Serbian Government, along with us, helps our agricultural producers and those undeveloped areas. Once again, distinguished colleagues, respected representatives of the Commission, I urge you to work on this, to protect these small producers of ours, our peasants from some powerful companies that just want the market, and they don't want our products. I'd like that. As an MP for the United Peasant Party, I will always insist on it, because it is the only way to save our peasant and our village, and that is possible with the help of our country and our ministry... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3373	Thank you. People's MP, respecting the importance of the topic and where you came from and from which lists you entered parliament, the time foreseen for the parliamentary group you officially belong to expired almost two minutes ago, so I was very correct. I see Marian Risticevic was looking for a replica. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basis is to mention the name and possibly the lapus. I never said it was better introduced than produced. I said the other way around. So, I was talking about agricultural production that it's better to produce than introduce, and that the foreign exchange of that former government was completely reversed. I believe that food production is most important for the economic power of a country, and I say that soon the economic power of the country, primarily by climate change, will be measured not by the amount of gold and diamonds, but by the amount of food and drinking water that this country can produce. From here I always say that it is better to produce than to introduce, and that the currency of the former government, whose time, for example, was 200 thousand cows gone, was better introduced than produced. This is purely for clarification, respecting the entire group of Mufti Zukorlic, just so we know what the truth was about what I was saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3375	Thank you. Next on the list is a fellow Parliamentwoman Sanja... (Milia Miletic: I would like to answer...) ) Milia, please try to save time, you know what the plan of today's work is. In fact, you don't have the right to reply to each other. Short, Mr. Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3376	Thank you. It was a lapus. We always said it was better to produce than to introduce and I was wrong about the weather, because I see that in those six minutes, as far as our group is concerned, I say everything. Otherwise, Mr. Risticevic is right and he was always right, I always supported it – it is better to produce than introduce it. It was a lapus, and the mistake is that I want to say as much as I can, and because of the time I make a mistake. So, thanks again, you're very tolerant. Last time the president of the assembly said that the parliamentary group where I am, that it wasn't a minority parliamentary group, but we're all the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3377	Thank you. Explain that another time. Thank you. National MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3378	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, I will try to abide by the arrangements we had in relation to the time I have left, regardless of the time my parliamentary group has. Dear President of the Commission, members of the Council, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, preparing for this discussion on the Commission's report on competition protection, it was simply impossible not to look back on the creation and the way we came to the Commission today. To begin with, perhaps, the difference between competition policy and competition rights should be made. In this sense, competition policy has some broader concept and it actually implies the way state institutions function, predicting appropriate mechanisms to act on the market itself, and this should be our focus of the day. I think in that sense we have succeeded in what we could hear from the MPs today. Without a doubt, competition policy is one of the things that is necessary for Serbia if it wants to become an EU member. I'm a member of 73. The accession agreement actually obliges Serbia to bring its legislation into line with EU legislation. There are important steps ahead of us, and in this sense we have a lot of things that still need to be fixed in order to reach a certain level that will meet the needs that the EU has set before us. It is commendable, for example, that our legislative framework is very good, that institutions have been established, which can be seen from this report, and that they are doing their job. However, we still have appropriate restrictions that essentially concern the very application of those legal rules that apply in this area. Here, first of all, I think of the number of employees you have, which may not be fit according to the structure or the way they work, given the size of the work that you have and the Commission itself in general, in relation to the region, as reported in the Report, as many as 20 to 40 % of the people work in this Commission than this case with the countries in the environment. I think it is a very important step towards improving the work of the Commission itself and in general protecting competition in Serbia, essentially to find what is an obstacle so that we can overcome this same obstacle and continue to work in this context. There, one of these is the organisational expertise I was just talking about. There is the impression that consumer organisations are not sufficiently present in this matter and that no significant co-operation with the Commission has been recorded. I don't think that would be a bad step. The next thing I want to talk about is a business community which, on the one hand, has in mind the regulations we apply, but as if not sufficiently involved in proposing some new rules, measures or procedures that the Commission should take to improve the situation in the area of competition protection in Serbia. My colleague spoke earlier, Mr. Peric, you also, about the work concerning the functioning of the judge and the need to improve the capacity of the court, primarily through the specialization of this case. Now, maybe it's not bad to think about the idea of creating a special organisational continent in the form of a specialised judicial council that will deal with it and that would help you in a lot of things later when you interpret the decisions and the notifications that would then be more coherent and that would be more understandable to all those who don't really deal with the subject in the way that you deal with it. Since there is not much time, I will conclude with the fact that the protection of competition in Serbia and the market should be observed through some kind of incentives of small, micro and medium-sized enterprises, that they, as such association in clusters, can actually appear as one competitor to large enterprises that pose a risk to the existence of dangers that arise in terms of the protection of competition. Perhaps this is what should be done by empowering small, micro and medium-sized enterprises, they imitate the work of large enterprises and create a completely different market as a condition for a good functioning of the market in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3379	Thank you. The word is from the Vice-President of the Assembly, Parliament MP Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3380	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr Peric and his associates, today we have an opportunity to discuss the Commission's 2019 Report and the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group in Voting Day will support the report, as we could see from the Commission's work that you have worked very hard to harmonise and comply with EU regulations. You participated a lot, but you also organised conferences and seminars throughout Serbia, Belgrade, Novi Sad and other cities. That's good, because that explains and brings economic operators closer to the importance of competition. We support your intensities to strengthen human resources, given the new areas you will be dealing with in the next period. You're in your exhibit and hinted at it. It is good that the Commission is financed from its own incomes, because it is one way to remain independent. On the financial plan and the government gave a positive assessment in October 2018. During 2019 you had a positive financial result, the surplus income was paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Like I said, you're doing positive and effective business. When I say efficiency, I mean solving objects and it's very high. I am pleased to learn that a growing number of young people are interested in education, policy implementation and competition protection, and that papers on the subject are being written on the subject at the Faculty of Economics and Law. It's a good thing we're developing a culture of protection of competitiveness. When I look at the start of your work in 2006 and now in 2021, it is clear that from year to year the staff has progressed, but also with the technique of the competition protection mechanism that is following Europe and, which is very important, given Serbia's negotiating position and Chapter 28 which is currently related to consumer protection. In 2019, the Commission played an active role in meeting the Stabilisation and Association Agreement obligations. You have had excellent co-operation with EU institutions and a series of successful activities. When it comes to protecting competition, the European Commission's assessment is positive. On the basis of the information contained in the report, we can conclude that the Commission is an organised institution that performs tasks established by law and in accordance with the Statute and other acts of the Commission, and that it does business relatively well in view of a small number of employees in relation to other institutions in the region and the EU. How complex is the topic of competition in the market, it speaks also of a series of amendments and additions to the Competition Protection Act that we have had over the past ten years, whose aim is to bring domestic regulation into line with international, and the current situation, as I said, is satisfactory in terms of competition. The Commission, by the way, did not have the right to state the measure to protect competition under the 2005 law, which was made possible by the 2009 law, and the first measures were made only in 2011. We see in your report that this mechanism was continued in 2019. As I said at the beginning of my presentation, the report clearly shows that in 2019 the Commission had intensive activity in the main fields of its operation and at no time was the Commission threatened, nor was its financial independence questioned. However, at the meeting of the Committee on Business, many colleagues asked a question, primarily how effective your commission is with regard to eight employees, and you solved, for example, 197 cases in 2019. As I said, your plan is to increase the number of professionals in the coming period. The Single Serbia parliamentary group believes it will be so, because we know how important it is for the country itself to be an equal and equal market. In December 2019, we adopted the Law on Public Procurement, aimed at increasing transparency, reducing administrative burdens, and increasing competition in public procurement. We have often had cases where bidders pre-negotiated on public procurement and thus there was an elimination of competition among them, and the ultimate result of these unauthorized agreements, which is otherwise prohibited by the Law on the Protection of Competition, implies the withdrawal of more money on the burden of the state, and therefore also on citizens as taxpayers. The Commission for the Protection of Competition in So far has led and rightly ended a number of procedures, just like this. This also creates the need to analyse new legal solutions that are important for bidders involved in the public procurement market in Serbia. In your report, we could see that in the last year and a half a task force has been formed which, in collaboration with the Ministry of Trade, is currently working on a draft of a new law on the protection of competition. There is room for improving the Commission's institutional capacity, especially in the world of the European Commission's Directive, as the directive provides for new rules and tools for national bodies to protect competition operating within the EU to be as effective as possible. Since Serbia is seeking a path to the EU, this approach to the new Competition Protection Act would be good because it would create more favourable conditions and a more legal environment, not only for the development of competition rights in Serbia, but for improving the guaranteed rights of all market participants. Speaking of the draft competition law, it should be said that it is otherwise almost 90% in line with EU rules in the field of competition protection. We are aware and heard from other colleagues that the competitive market can never be ideal and therefore there are institutions like commissions, only the market and, of course, final customers will decide who is the best, who is the most favourable. The Competition Protection Commission has recently carried out a special insight that represents an unannounced visit to economic operators by the Commission's officials, which is known in European practice as a "breakdown at dawn". The investigation committee is used to detect distortions of competition on the Serbian market and is an extremely effective means of gathering evidence. This is another activity that is being implemented in accordance with European regulations. I had one question, I don't know if you'll have the time, Mr. Perry, to answer me, primarily as a national MP but also as a citizen. I suppose it is very interesting for economic operators, but also for the citizens themselves to tell us – in which sector have you had the most examples so far where companies have committed a competitive injury, or where the domination of certain companies on the market, or in a particular sector, has been misused? The very idea of competitiveness is not only the ability of an economic operator to compete successfully in the market, but also the ability to deal with global competition continuously, because the existence of competition in a particular market has positive effects, such as improving the quality of goods and services, increasing the freedom of choice of consumers themselves and enabling lower prices. I think that our country's vision should be a market where all participants under working conditions will be able to fight for consumers with quality and price, of course, respecting obligations and laws, and all in order and desire to provide citizens with the best services at the best prices. And speaking of consumers, I would like to say that the consumer protection sector has achieved a great deal in this area. Serbia continues to carry out activities that contribute to further affirmation and strengthen the institutional consumer protection framework. There are new strategic solutions that will remove current obstacles, such as strengthening the system of out-of-court consumer dispute resolution, improving consumer protection on the digital market, which is very important and popular lately, and this is some future, and improving consumer information through the implementation of consumer protection in the curriculum. Unique Serbia hopes that the Agency's 2020 report will be even more successful, that the rule of law will be applied in line with all Serbia's aspirations and efforts to be a country of equal opportunities for all. I'm sorry if I'm out of time. Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3381	Thank you, Vice President. You've entered exactly the time foreseen for the JS parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3382	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Commission representatives, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have a very important report from the Commission on the protection of competition, which is well-designed and this is not disputed. But this report of yours and the work of your commission in recent years just confirms that we now have a normal time in Serbia and that we no longer have a monopoly rule. We must simply always remind citizens and remind the public how important regulatory bodies are, how important your commission is, but what is the alternative. The alternative is what happened by 2012, when we had the rule of the monopoly, the rule of the monopoly of Dragan Gilas, Miroslav Miskovic, Dragan Šolak. Some of them and today, like Gilas, like Solak, have a monopoly on SBB, their media, their controls and their abnormal desires to destroy everything that is state. If they were to ask themselves, both Gilas and Solak and Jeremic and their fellow Members, not only would your institution, a very important commission, not exist, but they would probably establish some private institution that would only have the task of carrying out their monopoly goals. Fortunately, we also have the Serbian Government, we also have President Alexander Vukic who prevents it, had your commission and other institutions that prevent it, because this government of Serbia and we as MPs, we also take care of small businesses, we take care of not thousands, of hundreds of thousands of employees in Serbia. Any honour to large enterprises that employ three, seven or ten thousand employees, that is fine, provided they pay taxes and all other necessary contributions to the state of Serbia, the tax certainly. But it is not right for individual tycoons to destroy small and medium-sized private entrepreneurs and destroy everything my colleagues Risticevic and Miletic spoke of. That is why I support the work and your committees, which is why I also support this report, because this report is also in favour of the rule of law in Serbia, which is our goal. That's why the SNS came to power, not only to stand in the way of the mafia, but to stand in the way and corruption, to stand in the way and rule of the monopoly. At the end of my speech, I must refer to the presentation of my dear colleague from the Djordj Dabić parliamentary group, who spoke so well that I was encouraged to say something on the subject. The topic isn't about your commission's report, I'm gonna take two minutes, I hope my colleagues don't mind, and it's about crimes against Serbs. It is that every day here in this House we talk about it, but we have to talk, because today, unfortunately, in Croatia, and in Bosnia and Herzegovina there are also Ustasha elements that do not want well for Serbs and do not want well anti-fascists and anti-Nazis. Like after World War II on SFRY territory, The Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina had twenty thousand Ustashas then called the Maltena crusaders by the end of the 1960s moved along the forests and mountains of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and killed the Serb people. So today we have descendants and these Ustashas and these crusaders, I only hope that to a lesser extent, they are in the territory of Croatia that do not wish well for our people and who want to commit crimes. When we say the word genocide, we first need to know what genocide is and what a crime is. As our head of the parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, has said, I condemn all crimes committed against both the Serb and Croatian and Bosniak people and the 1990s and the Second World War, but when genocide is said, it must be known what genocide is. Genocide is the intention that one population does not exist in one territory and that it is expelled and driven away by all possible methods. That's what we had in World War II, and that's what we had in the '90s. In World War II, the tactics of Ustasha, the Nazis and fascists were a third of the killings, a third of the banishment, a third of the cataclysm. And in the 1990s, we had the same thing in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Not to mention the Storm, the Maestro, the Flash, Lori, the Bratun, the Skelani, the camps around Sarajevo, where not a few hundred were killed in each camp, but several thousand people. And why are we talking about this today? We're not talking about these crimes today because we want them to repeat themselves. No, but we want them not to forget, so they never do it again, that neither genocide nor war crimes are repeated. We want war crimes not to happen again, but we also do not want the rule of monopoly and the rule of tycoon, the rule of Dragan Gilas and his associates, who were in their heads only, not only, but also others, to earn dozens, hundreds, if they can earn billions of euros. What billion euros? Billions of euros, i.e. Hundreds of millions of euros from our people, of all of Serbia's honest citizens, and we are all the same here in parliament, who we pay our dues to the state and who we support both the work of your institution and this report. Because there has to be a protection of competition. Because we all love our state of Serbia and we all trust the government of Serbia and the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who leads our country to a better future, a future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3383	Thank you. Since the lists of speakers are no longer registered, I would like to conclude a single search and thank the representatives of the Competition Protection Commission at their presence at today's session. We continue the search in particular of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the designation of origin of property and special tax. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the meetings of Maja Popovic, Minister of Justice, whom we welcome, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister Jovan Ćosic, Assistant Minister of Justice and Vladimir Vins, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. The honourable MPs received one amendment, which was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3384	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that the law enters into force immediately, I agree with that, that those who are the most suspicious, do not escape by falconies and other planes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is a threat to this law is that a large part of that property has been transferred abroad to Seseljska, Maldivska, Pukova and other islands. Other dangers are companies, because artists and winners of the transition are a large part of the stolen property, while doing public work, and performance in public business should not be measured by the amount of money, or the amount of real estate you earn during your public work. Come on, say, you transfer those real estates and finances to multi-com, emotional, idt, and, thanks to your public business, you've made private businesses. Well, let's say 104 shows from RTS turned into 208, so it's called a 48-hour wedding, so it's all covered up marketing, so let's say, you got millions from RTS, and you put it on the company "Emoshen", "Multicom", etc., and then it's treated as company property, and of those 619 million euros, it's probably a large part of the company's assets, and only the properties on it and his brother remain the subject of a possible investigation that should certainly be dealt with. Why am I -- to accept this amendment, because I claim that they of their wealth only have the fear of losing it. So when we make this rule, let's say that if we adopt this amendment from our wealth, Dragan Gilas and the other winners of the transition have nothing but fear of losing it. They're people who think they can do anything with money, and we need to prove that that's not true. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's being stolen today. The team Solak, Gilas, steals more than 100m euros annually from Serbia. As we pass the law, they make holes in all other laws, and they pump huge amounts of money through fake and cross-border channels. I personally asked the Luxembourg regulator whether 30 United media channels, including the most famous N1, Nova S, sports clubs, Sinai, Grand and other channels, are broadcasting the programme in Luxembourg. I received a reply from the Luxembourg regulator -- yes, it is true, they are registered in Luxembourg, but they are not broadcasting the programme and under Luxembourg law they can be registered without having an obligation to broadcast the programme. Here they perform as re-transmitted television channels. Such channels are not registered in Serbia. They don't have to register cable operators with their contracts to make a deal with the so-called. cross-border channels and there is a European Convention on cross-border channels that says the same thing as domestic laws that re-emissioning is at the same time a takeover of programmes without changes in termination and complements. We in Serbia today have thirty channels of United media, which are the government in a certain way owned by the SBB, which is a miracle, except that the operator and distributor of television canals became their owner because in Brussels they have singled out a certain office so that they can be. But it can be provided that these channels are registered and then they have the right to broadcast the program, and all other channels outside are re-emitting, taking over without any changes or additions. They perform in Serbia as pirate channels. N1 television, Madam Minister, no PIB. TV N1 has no PIB, N1 TV is used by PIB Adria News d.o.o. Belgrade. Now I'm asking all of you, how can there be a company without a PIB, therefore, to use a PIB of another firm? Even if Adria News d.o.o. Belgrade's founder of N1 television, the newly formed firm must also have its PIB. Let's say, now, if someone owns the company, if that company is founded by another firm and that other firm has to have different PIBs. One company can't be used by another company's PIB. N1 television is a miracle. Foreign television reportedly being a re-emissioned foreign television is being used by PIB domestic companies, other domestic firms. I don't know how N1 TV pays, probably pays from the account of Adria News, how she pays her services, how she earns. This is Adria News d.o.o. Belgrade is losing, so we don't accidentally find that money and take it away because it's acquired illegally. They use domestic channel programs, and you have several kinds of cross-border channels. You have these pure pirate fake, cross-border channels. You worked at the BIA and you can certainly ask about what I'm saying. They have other cross-border channels. These are classic real cross-border channels, they are BBC, CNN, I don't know, TV Montenegro, Croatian TV and so on. These are cross-border channels whose programs are re-transmissioned here without any changes, with original commercials being broadcast there. You have a third kind of cross-border channels, these are cross-border channels whose programs they change here, by changing and inserting ads. You try to transfer, and for example I have Total, it's SBB property. You try on the SBB to switch to the FOX Move Channel, you'll have in one movie about a thousand seconds of commercials, they broadcast commercials all day, on classic cross-border channels whose program changes and commercials that go to America change with domestic commercials, so they end cross-border channels programs, which is also illegal. In such a way as to broadcast EPP, marketing, they threaten the work of domestic channels, because domestic channels registered in Serbia are in most cases, except RTS support advertising and charging. If it steals them from Solak, Gilas and the group, in which case they threaten the freedom of the media, because the media without money and are not overly free. They can't be the owners, they can be the owners of their freedom. N1 can broadcast whatever it wants, according to me, but it has to register, it must not violate the Law on Electronic Media and the Convention on Cross-border Channels. With domestic TV SBB doesn't pay anything, even started online and on EON unauthorized to broadcast domestic TV programs RTS, let's say the movie "Dara from Jasenovac" went unauthorized through the EON platform, to the viewers. In doing so, they charge for advertising even though they do not have the right to behave in such a way. They pay domestic television for nothing, no compensation for what their product uses. For me, it's unsustainable. If I were to take out my agricultural products as a farmer, give the buyer, the distributor on TV for free, and in this case he holds the second part of the goods, in this case the TV channels, which charge their own software, the SBB pays for its re-emission channels, and the broadcast to domestic televisions that are visible in Total, in SBB 80% of people watch domestic televisions through the Cabal, and domestic televisions can't rebel because from big cities where it's common to follow the program through cable, they'd be distant from the SBB and then they'd be less watched. They must not rebel, they use the free programme, while SBB uses their channels, across borders, which are less watched and several million euros a month for fake re-emission. Now I'm asking you. If there is no re-transmission of any SBB service and this group of companies pays in Luxembourg for re-emission? It's like paying for a favor from some fictitious abroad without using it. It would be money laundering, pumping to get etc. Does anyone in this country have the strength to get in the way of that robbery? Just through marketing, by putting in commercials, does anyone want to tell me that "Fox Move" Americans watch commercials, that it's the original program, that they're watching the commercials "Jellen" beer, "Začarski" beer, "Diamnta"? Do these commercials come from "Discovery", "History", "Fox" channels, do they just come? Are they broadcasting? Is that the original program in America? What the law says is that re-transmission is, at the same time, taking over a programme from abroad that has been unchanged. Did you know that they take almost 100m euros a year from marketing like that, plus these robberies they do in other ways? In this regard, we are not protecting, whether or not the competition is a competition. So, the domestic media that pays everything to SOKOJ, REM, all the compensation is paid, they don't pay anything. For example, open a shoe shop in Belgrade and register and then someone opens next to you and performs those conditions, he says – I don't pay anything, I'm registered in Luxembourg fictitiously. That's impossible for me. Is there any strength in this country? I know they're taking a shit about media freedom, how they're independent, free media. They're not independent media, they're not free, they're opposition media, they're entitled to that. Let the editorial policy "N1", "Nova S" be whatever it wants, "Sport clubs". Do you know how much they take on commercials at fake sports clubs that broadcast sports, there is the most expensive commercial, even boldly they say – good evening from Belgrade's studio. Is this a program that goes, REM doesn't do its job, can someone in the state get in the way of REM and School and stop this robbery, first of all, domestic media that don't work under the same conditions and whose program they boldly show up, pay nothing, rob through commercials, because without marketing, domestic media will run out of bread? I want to accept this amendment and vote for it, so it's my question whether we're going to let gentlemen keep their property illegally acquired because she's moved on to the companies and are we going to let illegally acquired property by the crime I've shown be held in the pockets of the School, Gilas, their relatives and their brothers? Do you know what the salary is in Gilasov and Solak's media, and why the press is running there? Because they don't pay anything, they get money for fake re-emitting and they have that money because they robbed domestic media and then they can pay five times as many journalists who install to do completely different things than when they're working in public service. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this group that used to sit there, I compare it to the greatest bandits. If Al Capone were alive today, he'd be a tiny fish of spit for Gilas and his crew. He'd be so small, he wouldn't even be admitted to his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3385	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3386	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I think that this amendment also clearly shows how necessary it is, urgently, and above all, in the interest of citizens to apply this law and everything that will bring this law to us immediately. From some personal opinion and from the discussion we had on Tuesday, I believe and which we are going to have today, somewhere I think it's not enough for us to spend 10 hours on all examples of how the skull was being taken away from the Serbian citizens' budget, how these funds ended up in private pockets, and how representatives of the former regime, and today people who are trying to get back into power have abused and used their position, and in every way possible took advantage of the opportunity given to them to do something for the country, did everything to do just for their own private interests and their own pocket. In recent days hysteria has been intensified, first of all, with Dragan Gilas, then with Vuk Jeremic, as the date for us to begin reviewing the property of all the officials when the Property Origin Act will begin to show its results. What I said on Tuesday, a respected minister, we can only talk about the results of this law when we see concrete results and apply them. I'm saying this because on Tuesday, we had that show where Dragan Gilas tried to justify himself, and like the chicken in the doghouse, he got involved, as the people say, and he confirmed that his norlobe, his wealth, was acquired in 2005, so, when he was deep in politics. But because the second richest man of that part of the regime, Vuk Jeremic, has since yesterday, as the people say, lost his mind, and in addition to the open threats he referred to people on the social network, has now continued some kind of poll, where, respected minister, he is now polling his followers and will therefore act as he comes to power. I'll try to quote you. So he asked: "Is it not up to all those who support SNS to be in the public sector or to be banned from employment for a period of ten years? “ Yesterday I asked the police minister, Mr. Vulin. In that discussion, I think there is room for you, as an excellent lawyer, so I would like you to perhaps at the end of this discussion just to express your opinion and tell me whether it is normal for someone who claims to return to power to be the highest state official, president, prime minister, for what he applies in his dreams, to subordinates in a way where his name and last name says to them: "You are on the list, we will not forget you, friend, remember what I said. “ So by name and last name he addressed one user: “This evil will pass, just as everyone before it will, and then it will find you what you deserve. You will not be punished for vengeance, but for evil never to happen again. “ My colleague Sandra Christmas, respected, read a tweet yesterday, and unlike many who represent the alliance and representatives of the former regime, she never complained, complained or held conferences, making threats that come to her every day, but yesterday, in the name of all women, she read a tweet and I want to repeat it, so that I read it today, so that you can see how they are today looking at anyone who only suggests the crimes they have done or to the harm they have done in our country: “Militaries, poor people, unable to make a living differently than moral prostitution. “ Imagine, that is how a woman who has just expressed her opinion is characterized. "These young people, who unlike your owners do not buy diplomas and who are thinking with their heads, will be Serbian builders after we send you to where you belong, into the sewer. “ So anyone who disagrees with Vuk Jeremic will end up in the sewer. "Alex, when all this is over, we'll take over the Botov servers, there won't be any identities, including yours. You'll be washing toilets for the rest of your life. “ Dear Minister, I will finish this exhibition and continue in this direction with one more question. If all of this isn't enough, tell me, please, how can we interpret the part in which it is said – don't whine too much someday? I don't know what he means, which is why Serbian citizens or anyone who doesn't support Vuk Jeremic or support SNS would one day be whining, but I wonder if any of the competent institutions will find it appropriate to respond to this? We from this place, as MPs, have adopted the Codex where we are limited or constrained in terms of bringing out those problems and the troubles that our citizens and the questions they are asking us, I am for it and I adhere to that code, as well as my colleagues. But what are we going to do with the people who ruined our country? Today they claim to return to power and treat the citizens of Serbia and people who may vote for us, certainly for us or may not vote, but the only thing that is safe for these people will never vote again. This man mentioned some kind of loan, taking money from foreign officials, and it is paradoxical that during the period he represented our country in the UN, he left a mark on our country, on our people, because his closest associates, who he worked with, were also seen in the Trampo Tower, where he was a mediator, were arrested for a world affair that was resolved in America, and the whole world was shaken, from Emilio Lozoia to Patrick Ho. In all these affairs, as you can see, he's in pictures with people who have been arrested, but who are also convicted of these penalties. What is interesting, in all these reports Vuk Jeremic is at the heart of this octopus and these events. Why? Because he used his position in the UN to connect all these, criminals, who used their money and influence to further increase their wealth, will be exposed. In addition to this, the fact that Patrick Hoa, who was sentenced to three years in prison, received more than seven million dollars from his leading centre in the period when he represented his interests. So when Patrick Hoa connected and introduced Lozoa, who on Twitter says is his brother and they take pictures together and admire each other, seven and a half million dollars he got from that Patrick Ho. When he himself got involved in his lies, he tried to get the bride on one of the TVs of Dragan Gilas, which are mentioned here several times, but was mentioned by Mr. Marijan Risticevic, to tear up some statements about an interview, so the journalist, by force of opportunity, or somehow, unwittingly and to admit that she was false. In fact, she referred him a question -- which of the two legal entities referred him the funds, whether it was "Tea Enerji" or "Tea Energy Fund Committees", where he said -- both. On one show, he said both of those foundations were paying him. Not long after that, maybe a month later, on that show again on the same television, when he was faced with Patrick Ho going to jail, he was right and said it was paid by the company, not the institution headed by Patrick Ho. I'm mentioning this to you, a respected minister, because the hysteria he's leading on Twitter these days and a campaign of some kind of persecution to anyone who doesn't think like him or maybe who's going to dare point to his manifesto is getting stronger right now when there's going to be an examination of all of us's assets. This is very important because if you are able to receive 7.5m euros from someone for the sake of their promotion and merger, doing the work of making contact, the question is whether citizens will be able to feel free if that money is used by Vuk Jeremic, so these threats turn theirs from Twitter into action? When we talk about the Law on the Origin of Assets, I'm sure it's very difficult to explain that from the window washers, the gum merchant, which is what, a failed and failed entrepreneur with 70,000 euros, the wife's house and the used car SAAB, who you had at the beginning of your political career in 2004, as Dragan Gilas had, in 2012, you're out of politics, and in 2018, you're reporting property in real estates of more than 25 million euros, I really want to know how someone's going to explain it? What I want, dear minister, is to suggest to you, today, that campaign that you will be exposed to has been given its second form. The party of Dragan Gilas of Freedom and Justice has pushed its new economic expert, an expert who has come out with amazing data that I couldn't find anywhere, about some economic downturn, the return of Serbia, I don't know everything so that somehow this law and today's discussion is thrown into the shadows. I can't stay silent about it, because Serbian citizens need to know that the lies he and his party represent to citizens have nothing to do with life. I just want to remind the citizens that GDP growth in 2009, we say growth, we were down 2.7%, and in 2019 we ended up with 4.2% in plus and we were the best in Europe. The number of employees in 2012 was somewhere more than 2.2 million, while in 2019 it amounted to nearly three million. Unemployment in their time was 23-24, and even up to 26% went. Our country managed to bring it down under Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government's leadership about 7%. The average earnings in 2012 were around 300 euros, while today Minister Sinisa Mali says it crossed 560 euros in December. These are concrete results. We can talk about foreign direct investment, but it is clear to all of us that according to this parameter today's government is at the best level and best in Europe and for such things we get confirmations from all over the world. Whether it's the Financial Times, whether it's the IMF, whether it's any other foreign investment, all of them give us credit, but not Dragan Gilas, who is deeply hurt by this data, are only proof of Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government's ability, but also proof that he was at a time when Vuk Jeremic and the fraternities gathered around the DS and their regime destroyed our country. With all this data, citizens must face, because in the next period there is no such lie that they will not repeat, which they will not bring out to somehow try to cast into the shadows everything that is good, what our country achieves in the field of vaccination and economic development and growth. For citizens who may not have heard and do not know, I believe that we have MPs here from Valjevo, President Aleksandar Vukic announced that a stone will be set up in summer for a factory in Valjevo that will employ more than 500 people, and then another factory will come. It is a responsible policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Government, and that is the best answer to all the lies we hear today. With this I will conclude, when we talk about Vuk Jeremic, I do not purposely spend much time and much more than he deserves on tycoon Dragan Gilas, who has 619m euros earned his companies, I repeat and put Vuk Jeremic in the first place for the simple reason that these threats are no longer just a coincidence, but they become a practice and because of citizens who ask me if he really thinks that he is coming to work if one day he comes to power, although I am convinced that this will not happen, because citizens, first of all, value work, pawnage, and not some policy he proposes today, I mention because when he was a foreign minister, dear Serbian citizens, spent three and a half million euros on his travels. He spent three and a half million euros on official travels. These data were internally audited by the Foreign Ministry. As head of diplomacy, the man spent 959 days on official travels. So 959 days in four or five years, how long did he perform that function? That's what I'm gonna end up with. While Serbian citizens worked in 2011 and 2012, for some 300 euros in monthly salary, in that year the closest associate of Dragan Gilas, one worked on the corruption of Belgrade and the Belgrade budget from citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, and the other was doing so at the level of the Republic from the post of Foreign Minister, in 2011, only took 12,000 euros for the diaries. So the average citizen for that money in 2011 had to work for three and a half years in that period, I think, and he only took 12,000 euros in the name of the daily. Because citizens know all of this, because they know what they're into and what they've brought us to, and the peril of total and bankruptcy, his hysteria, as well as the hysteria and panic of Dragan Gilas is at the highest possible level today. I want you to continue to apply this law literally to everyone, not sharing those who are close to the Serbian Progressive Party and those who are against the Serbian Progressive Party, that there are no equal ones, because it is in the interest of the Serbian citizens, because it is in the interest of creating even better Serbia. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3387	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The word first comes from Minister Maja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3388	I'd like to answer the honourable MP to the questions he asked me. I absolutely agree that criminal acts of security endangerment have been committed here, let me say, both insults and slanders. In that sense, I think that we should be constant in the legal exercise and protect our rights, that we should answer them every time with a lawsuit, that we should be at the level of the Serbian government and these goals that we want to achieve. I want from this pay phone to promise that their intimidation, the harassment of the media, the social networks won't stop us, they're just strengthening us in this fight against crime and their corruption. We won't stop there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3389	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Mrs Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3390	Thank you. Minister, I really don't have anything to add to this answer, and I'm happy that we have someone at the head of the Justice Department who's determined to even have cases like this, so whoever it is, whether it's a politician from the former government, the current opposition, or anyone else, to stop once and for all at the end of this kind of address, especially if it's politicians, former politicians who deal with ordinary citizens, because there's really a risk of that kind of nervous detachment, because I don't see a way to otherwise justify this kind of behavior, too much on the street. I think such people, indeed, are probably also some kind of general danger. I will agree, of course, again, that my dear colleague, Mr Mirkovic, has given me really one great opportunity to mention in this amendment and to find that it is a very little time for us to have this one session and that it may probably take days, months and years to discuss all the malfeasances, criminal marifettes that are subject to, and perhaps the subject of an examination of the Law of Origin of Assets, in order to reach all the conclusions and all the cases, I say, those concerning the mentioned politicians of the former government, but there are, of course, more. It doesn't end and everything doesn't begin, unfortunately, on behalf of Dragan Gilas, but nothing less has been up-to-date in other crimes, taking money from Serbian citizens' pockets, or other politicians standing right next to the same Dragan Gilas today. Did they learn from him then, admired him and wanted to become like him one day, it's easy for us to imagine, and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but definitely de facto, there are some things that give certain indications that such crimes were both in their biographies and that, of course, during the conduct of the political government. So, let us not forget, please, Marinika Tepic, who lives very immodestly, I would say, for today's conditions and perhaps inappropriate wealth for an MP of the former government. Certainly, the 300,000 apartment, when it comes to one hard work, is something that is respectful, right, but since we know here that this is a woman who has performed a public function, the question of where is she from and how did Marinika Tepic earn an 130-square apartment, which today at the most profitable location in Novi Sad is estimated at around 300,000 euros? Indeed, a big question mark is being asked. When we know that Marinika implemented the project "Golden Bridge – Sex for Beginners" when she was the province's minister for sports and youth, Marinika Tepic, while performing the role of the province's secretary, with 6.7 million financing this very project. It's NGO projects, who doesn't know. The name of the NGO is “Skas” and nothing would be disputed if the head of the NGO had not found a senior circuit official, her then party colleague Dusan Jakovev. I will remind, who forgot, I believe that it is very difficult for you to remember, to count the parties from which and where Marinika Tepic flew, it is one evolution that is really hard to send out, she was then a member of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. In three tranches, the NGO Jakovljeva, then vice president of the Regional Assembly, transferred 6.7 million dinars, and according to certain politicians in the Serbian Parliament, Jakovev bought an apartment right next door to Marinika Tepic, near Banovina. I'd say their tastes are obviously quite similar. It is not the only malversion of Marinika Tepic while she was a circuit minister, there are plenty. We'll talk about them for sure. I ask the prosecution again this way that once again everything that we MPs from this place are saying and we are really taking someone from the prosecution to look and look at, because it would really be exaggerating that everything that we have brought here, and the mass is evidence, there is no basis to start a certain procedure for all the criminal activities of Marinika Tepic, and we have seen that she and Dragan Djilas are also very close to the crime scene, since they have obviously learned from some who are the most precious in those circles, such as the Japanese government, who took pictures with them, as Filipovic and Djukanovic from Pancheva. So, I list you drug dealers, murderers and members of the Zemun clan, who are indeed, I'd say, the first round of friends of this two. We're not stopping here. As for the others who are also members of the former government, and they are known for being the right hand, the left pocket, during 2013 on the initiative of another former MP and former member of the former government of Miroslav Aleksic, SO Trstenik, and I will remind you that it is also about this municipality and everything we have also brought from this place as MPs, during the term of office of Miroslav Aleksic and as director of the public enterprise, and as president of the municipality, a lot of charges for criminal actions, corruption and other malversions have been reduced. This is not unverified and it is not exactly not that it did not remain undetected, given that the DRI also initiated certain procedures. My colleague, on Tuesday, seemed to me, and asked a good question, which relates precisely to the situation regarding Aleksic while he was president of the municipality. The question was – as far as it really came in these proceedings, did a criminal report have been launched, since we know that DRI on hundreds of sides, perhaps more, 300-pages, brought out all that was controversial while Miroslav Aleksic was president of the Tristenik municipality, and refers to numerous malversions, among other things, malversions that concern and drag into all this and nepotism, which, in one intention, with his father-in-law, whom he appointed as director of the National Employment Service and through which he pulled out money, through an NGO where they were the owners together? There are millions of amounts. That's what we've all talked about many times. Let's just say this is one thing we didn't talk about. It is good that we have citizens whose corruption, crime and all that the former government has done and we have well remembered, and also citizens of the Republic of Serbia very, very, very well, given that 400,000 people remember well that they have lost their jobs, in the street and in the stolen future. These people are still picking up today asking why none of these politicians from the former government answered. They themselves report the forms of corruption they came to when some of the former authorities had and held responsibility for it. So, as I was on my way, during 2013 to Alexic's initiative, SO Trstenik decided to assign the location of the city's building land in the street of Cara Lazara in Tristenik to the construction company "Technical construction" from Kruševec for the construction of a five-story residential building, e, now, this is the most interesting part, and in respect of course, the price was a real small price. The price was 10,000 euros. The decision at such a low price for the city's construction land was justified by the claim that it was an incentive measure to launch an apartment in Triestenik. Afterwards, this is an even more interesting part, the construction of the mentioned building, Alexic was made available at the end of 2016 to a residential area on the last floor where during the summer of 2017, according to the concerned citizens who provided me with this data, Alexic's wife, who announced her move into a new apartment for the end of that year. This apartment, for information and folk MPs and justice ministers, I hope someone from the D.A. will send this speech and these facts, and deal with it, the size of 146 square meters and the value of about 80,000 euros. This apartment, as far as is known, did not pay for the whole, but the company "Technogradja" from Kruševec owes another twenty thousand euros and has not yet registered it on itself, so that the apartment continues to be run on the mentioned company, since they had joint jobs and that this was the most convenient way for Alexic to actually hide his property. All of this is very connected to the new law because, I mean, it's going to be very difficult for the authorities that implement this law to determine where the property of all the former politicians really is. For this very reason, because there were different marriquettes who covered up every trace of them. There were different business partners who paid any relatives for their services, Miroslav Aleksic may have been the best example of this type of nepotism, or they were with some very close friends combined around some houses they were dealing with, say, advertising space, which they were dealing with by giving advice, etc., which gave them certain fictitious amounts that were coming back in cash and into their hands. It will be extremely difficult to see it out and prove it. Most of the money actually is, at least in the case of Miroslav Aleksic... According to what we have and how much data we have, the statements of people who have drawn attention to these things will be very hard to prove. When we talk about Dragan Gilas, the absolute champion of malfeasance, criminal activities and the theft of citizens, both Belgrade and Serbia, I think that, and you are right, once again, Mr Mirkovic, is very nervous in tycoon circles, and precisely because of this law, precisely because of the unwavering and unwavering struggle of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia against crime and corruption in Serbia. I'll remind you that if you look at the provisions of the law and it wasn't a big panic. In case it is discovered and proved, of course, that Dragan Gilas must return some of his property, count how much 75% of 35 apartments, count 75% of 619 and much, much more millions. Since Dragan Gilas, as far as we could understand, is the best and most efficient window washer in some shows and is probably the "Multicom" training centre for the best and most excellent window washers. I'm sure Dragan Gilas doesn't worry that he'll lose a piece of his property, since by washing the windows, he's managed to earn an empire like this, an empire like this, and millions like this. I'll tell you there's no winter for him. You see, citizens, I'm sure many of you have glass like this on your car at least, if not on other things where you can find such glass, you've seen all over town, so the work for window washers has been done. I'm telling Dragan Gilas there's no winter and he's not worried, since he won't stay completely hungry, he'll always have work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3391	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. The word is made by the People's MP Milan Radin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3392	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I must say that I will support this amendment, although I believe this amendment is late, the whole law is late, one 20 years late. If we had a law like this 20 years ago, we have hope that maybe, just maybe, we wouldn't have locusts that ate Serbia at the beginning of this century. On the other hand, I hope through this law we can knock on the door of some slightly forgotten DS aces in some smaller places. As far as Gilas is concerned, we'd all like to know. I'd like to know first how his brother Gojko made 36 apartments. Honestly, I'd like it to be in some legal way. I have a younger brother, too, so that I know what to refer him to, although I must say, I suspect that this is legally acquired in any way whatsoever. On the other hand, I hope that we will find out that Mr. Zoran Milesevic, a senior DS official from kickinda, managed to buy a hotel, not 36 apartments, the most luxurious hotel in the center of kickinda, that we will find out what happened to the famous Dulic brothers who cleaned Serbia, who cleaned up Subotica. Is there anything left of it and where did it go? Will we remember Bora Novakovic, Bora of the long hands of Thessaloniki, who managed to vote in this House from Thessaloniki? Are we going to find out where over 400 million he and Borovic went to steal from the New Sad boulevards? Although, he wasn't the only one who worked with that firm. Mr. Pitiæ managed to ruin the entire bank. They managed to "Metals Bank", later renamed it "Vojvodine Development Bank", to shut down, to destroy, to take everything out of it. Of course, later on, there was talk of Pititić's house in Senta, as part of it ended there. Are we going to find out through this law, aren't we? I don't know. We're left to hope. We understand that it's expensive to support the ergella of the Mushrooms. I hope prosecutors and tax inspectors don't have to go into it as much as it costs to keep something like that. As for Mrs. Tepic, as the previous speaker, the respected Sandra Christmas, mentioned, her job with Mr. Jacobev... I must say that Mr. Jakovev did well in this business, given that the current stories that Mr. Tepic, the husband of Marinika Tepic, were beaten by party colleagues in Temerin. On the other hand, I understand the need of Marinika Tepic for such an apartment in Novi Sad, that she can move away. Again, still, I'd like to know how they earned it? I know a lot of people in the state sector. I know a lot of people, and I have a chance to know how many of their incomes, more or less, I can tell you that, according to some of my free bill, I should work for the rest of my life at the National MP's place, and perhaps beyond that, over the average age in the Republic of Serbia, and again the question is whether an apartment in the centre of Novi Sad could be earned in this way of 300 000 euros. At least, what's a little easier for me is knowing that I'm not going to pass as former party colleagues Mr. and Mrs. Tepic. But my still favorite former DS ace is Mr. Goran Jesic. How will this law cover, if it can cover, its properties in Vienna that we know of? Is there any more of them? That's the question. Will we be able to find out how he acquired these properties and whether these properties are also subject to this law? I believe that this law could be the subject of a milkman he opened with Uncle Amir Bislimi, if I'm not mistaken, and a lawyer named Srdjan Kovacevic who had the opportunity to represent a less famous firm. However, it was less famous then, and now we've all heard of it – "Darekt Media", and we know who owns the "Darek Media". If this bench starts to dissipate, dear minister, if, only if, through the collection of this special tax, we can reach 70% of all that they have stolen, I can say I have no concern about whether we will build eight or 80 highways in Serbia in the coming years, given how much money has disappeared through the malversion of our forgotten DS aces. When I say DS, "Don't make a fuss on you, dear colleagues," the question is whether a party under that name exists, but they're still the same people. These are the same people in the People's Party, in the Party of Freedom and Justice and the other parties that came out of it. Try rebranding, failed. Tried to return to power, failed. I hope this law will show that it will be a failure to launder the money they have drawn, the money they have stolen from the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3393	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3394	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Mrs Popovic and I, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two days ago we discussed this bill in principle, and then we said it was good to adopt this amendment and supplement law bill and that's why it's good. What I would point out and what the citizens are most interested in is actually the fact that in front of the authorities that are responsible for the application of this law, they will all be the same. Why does it matter to citizens? Because the rules are the same for everyone, because all citizens are expected to respect the laws, and then we see that some people get through and those who have been in public functions, those who have earned big money, who have not justified, who have bought apartments, business spaces, and have admitted that they didn't have that money before they started to deal with politics. We passed the law a year ago, now we're talking about changes and additions to this law in particular, and I think that's just fine. This means that this law is being dealt with and that its application will be closely monitored. By 2012, if we go back a little bit in the previous years, conditions could be created for the adoption of such a law, and why not, it will most likely show us exactly its application. How it is possible that the government was not interested in issues that mattered to the citizens of Serbia, to say to the citizens of Serbia – Dragan Gilas has so much and so much pay, performs a public function here and here, thus obtaining 619m euros and 25m euros that he has reported, which he has only in his dwellings. So, of this and that salary, and of the performance and the public functions in the Republic of Serbia. Of course they won't be for the adoption of this law. Now we hear them also criticise this law, and Gilas I heard, and Borko Stefanovic and others, many supporters of the Party of Freedom and Justice, and it is in some sense and logical to me, because they were never interested in what is good for the citizens of Serbia and for what is good for Serbia, they were interested, as they are now showing, only in what concerns them personally. Specially fond of these outbursts gives us now justice, just before the law was applied, so we heard that Dragan Gilas even washed and worked on the building and it is very possible to become the richest man in Serbia and perhaps in the Balkans, because it really is big money. So it's about a man who himself reported savings of about 50,000 euros, a car and a house that's run on his wife, when he entered politics, and then I reported 619 million dinars, hundreds of millions of euros, after performing public functions. And now that citizens are interested in how it is possible and when citizens rightly demand to examine possible trade in influence, possible abuse of position, the ways in which these couples occurred, that Dragan Gilas represents an attack on him by the SNS. We neither invented 50 thousand euros, nor reported them, nor invented its 619m euros, nor reported them. I'm saying all of this because I want to give an example of a potential candidate to re-examine property and the way these couples came into existence. And why is that? You'll see from the questions we can ask the authorities who will be responsible for the application of this law. Does that money have anything to do with the affairs that many of Gilas' associates have been arrested for? Does that have anything to do with the criminals he's in the pictures with? Does this have anything to do with the money of the Belgrades while he was mayor, given to the bridge on Ada, for underground containers, for the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, for BUS Plus, for software packages, for the privatisation of Luke Belgrade, for the control of the media, etc., etc.? And I repeat -- all during the time Dragan Gilas was mayor of Belgrade. The MPs, it is very clear, are the voice of the citizens of the National Assembly, the voice of the citizens who elected us and who supported the political parties that ran us for this place. Serbian citizens want answers to these questions. In that sense, I support this amendment which reads that the law enters into force immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3395	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3396	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, as well as my colleagues, and I will support the election day for the amendments ahead of us, because we are all aware of how much this is only a legal solution that is ahead of us and the proposals that have been made and further improves important in the further fight against crime and corruption. We had a chance at the previous point to talk, when it came to protecting the competitiveness of our economy and markets in Serbia, so I would, in addition to everything my previous colleagues had said, look back a little bit on this segment, what they were actually doing and how much they were actually fighting for our country not to be competitive. Otherwise, as we know, any economy could successfully attract foreign direct investment and develop, it must work to respect the basic principles of economy, market laws, so that businessmen and small entrepreneurs are stimulated to continue to develop and to move forward. Unfortunately, in their time it wasn't the case. In their time, such legal solutions were made and such privatisations were carried out that we saw what effects they had, and they mostly ended up with locks on factories, street workers protesting and where cities in Serbia instead of being places where young people would live and work, were largely running away from our country. Unfortunately, such a situation was also in the city where I came from, in Krusevec, where indeed almost all the privatisations they made were, unfortunately, ending in that way, where these contracts were terminated, where the state had to take over the commitments that the former owners of these companies made and to solve the question of these companies which, believe me, were not easy at all. And those few successful privatisations that were, they were treated as if they had never happened, nor were they willing to work with such businessmen to develop a further environment, where they would have the interest to stay in Serbia, to expand their production, but they considered – okay, we signed the contract, you gave money, and that's that. Coming to the Serbian Progressive Party in 2012 changed the whole story. The economic environment is developing, developing and competing, and we also saw in the report that the Commission is absolutely doing its job when it comes to protecting and improving competition itself, which stimulates the arrival of foreign investment and which actually enables us to be champions when it comes to attracting these new investments. All that bothers them, because respect for the law is something that disturbs their dealings and jobs they had with their business associates with whom we heard Dragan Gilas did not even sign contracts, because he felt that when it comes to legal dealings the contract was not important. But everyone will tell you that actually the first thing you do when you go into some business to legally protect yourself and sign the contracts. In that report, we saw that the companies that were attached to them, in particular, I will talk about SBB, in 2019, which reportedly broke the competitiveness of the market itself, and by the wave against Telecom, because they felt competition, felt in fact that their dominant position they had built in their time, in the time of the yellow tycoon regime, that it was actually shaking and simply "Telecom" which was in their time a money extraction company, is no longer. It is a company that is actually trying to provide quality services to its users when it comes to information and communication technology. Of course, all these disputes were rejected. And when these disputes have been rejected in accordance with the law, in accordance with the way the administrative dispute is being conducted, they, of course, take on other mechanisms, which is the engagement of their megaphones, among which the most prominent ones are, of course, Marinika Tepic, where they are in front of "Telecom", in front of numerous other institutions, in front of the EPS, performing various performances where they are trying to create these affairs, i.e. lies in which they live. They carry out and place as if it were true, and very soon afterwards they are denied. Of course, they are dissatisfied with it and are making every effort to invent as many false affairs as possible, so it is no wonder that we know today that Dragan Gilas and his company are leaders when it comes to "the fog industry", i.e. "the lie industry". What is interesting, and says one saying, it is in the sports jargon – the attack is the best defense; you can notice that whenever we talk about the Law establishing the origin of property or in any other legal solutions where we oppose crime, corruption, where we want law to be respected. When we see that the state also has success in fighting crime and corruption, they move to attack, and in fact they are clearly defending themselves. What I will certainly be interested in, as well as many citizens of Serbia, is to examine specifically what are they defending themselves from? What are they hiding? It is this legal solution that we have discussed, and this amendment will allow our competent authorities to slowly investigate it, and as we see in the elections, it is shown that the vast majority of Serbian citizens believe Alexander Vukic's politics. Alexander Vukic's policy also implies that the judiciary is independent and that he will do his job most professionally, which, of course, we can actually see what they are hiding and finally find out how they have come to those, what counterparts Dragan Gilas 619 plus millions say, how Vuk Jeremic has come to these powerful donations to his NGO sector, his organization, and that we actually see when it comes to Mr Dragan Gilas who, as a matter of fact, we have learned to wash windows, to see how many windows he has to wash to acquire that initial capital with which he came and created those 619 million, or to at least find out what these windows are made of. For such a short period of time, I'm sure that the money washing the windows couldn't have gotten that much money. In any case, in the voting day, as well as my colleagues in the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will also support this amendment proposal, I will support and amend laws that only improve the conditions for the work of the competent authorities, so that we can stand in the way of crime and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3397	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3398	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected minister, respected Serbian citizens, one of the most important laws for the country, perhaps the most important when we go towards the goal, and the goal is to fight corruption and crime, and it is simply one of the key objectives, as they have done before us, and they have done this before 2012, a very big job and a very big task both in front of this country and, of course, before the government, the Ministry and this National Assembly. Clearly, no one in this country, of course, in this congregation council is against hardworking, rich and capable people, but all of them are against those who have taken, who have stolen and who have in illicit ways come to an enormous wealth. Who these people are, we can guess, we can assume, but the state will go right through this law, and of course, with the other laws that are already in force, have another instrument to process these people and to publicly tell the citizens who they are who they are that they've dared to get rich on the burden of their country or rather on the burden of their citizens. There are no problems that can't be solved, and neither has this big problem been pushed under the carpet, but it's going towards a solution, and this law is the solution that will answer the question of how someone is, and this someone named Dragan Gilas has raised no less than 619m euros, but one of the problems is that he's not the only one. I wouldn't want us to forget about some of his other friends and associates and not just Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and their whole thieving crew. I don't want to forget the other one. The chaplains are extremely interested in this law. Who's been pulling money out of the budget for 20 years in Capco? Who in 20 years' time did "Behaton" in the center of Sapca and that's the only thing that's done and what can be seen in 20 years, after 20 years of getting money out of the budget? I can, from this payphone, also direct the question to Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic and the rest of the yellow team – where is the money of the citizens of Sapca? Why and how could they not do anything in 20 years? It's a policy of a dead end that they entered 20 years ago, and they failed to get out of that dead end until the last election and the change of power in Capco. I hope that with the help of this law, we can answer the questions of where the money is? The only convicted mayor in Serbia, Zelenovic, for fivem euros from the budget of the town of Sapca, did not experience that because of a verdict that had ceased to be legal only for reasons of time flow, among other things inadequate process, this law would allow us to ask the mayor again how and where he spent fivem euros from the budget of the town of Sapca and, of course, not the only millions they have collected and separated from the budget of all citizens. What should be noted, that is, is that politicians, and for example, when it comes to Shabac, let the investigation of the assets start from the politicians in the SNS, although I think as far as I can see, at first, that no one here can qualify for their property to be covered by this law at all, but I insist that it be properly checked, first the SNS politicians, and then everyone else. Why is it important that, before this law, which is before the law that we are going to vote, I hope tonight, and I hope with the amendment that we are talking about, that the application of this law should begin immediately, why it is important to do so, because everyone is equal and no one, absolutely no one who has increased their wealth in an unauthorized way or mentioned it in any other way, and that it is not in accordance with the law will be protected. Just so the citizens know, it's important to repeat it, 75% will be taken to the one who didn't report his property regularly and who didn't pay off his liabilities, and 100% of the capital will be taken away from whoever acquired the property by illegal dealings, criminal acts. So, whoever obtained the property he acquired through the crime, 100% will be taken back to the state, or to the citizens of Serbia. Is there anything fairer? And of course that seems very simple, but away from it is simple, but what matters is this law will run an extremely difficult job. Whether it'll be necessary in the next period of walking to change certain things, so we'll change. We will change everything that is necessary for those who have abused, who have stolen, who have taken from the citizens for it to respond and for the property of the citizens to be returned to the state of Serbia and to the citizens of Serbia personally. The origin of the property is a question to which the state should answer and it will give it, and all those who think well of this Serbia and who want to appear before their citizens should think well when we vote tonight for this law whether they will support it. I am sure that the majority of this law will, I hope in 100% capacity, but on the other hand, I call on those who stand before different institutions, different institutions and who are constantly calling for honesty, to stand up and say whether or not they are against this law, because all those who are against the law are against the truth and against the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3399	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3400	Dear Vice President, Mr. Orlic, I would first of all like to say that I, as well as all my colleagues from the SNS, are in favour of this amendment and this law. I believe that this law and this law will bring order to first and foremost illegally acquired property and introduce order into property acquired by that illegal yellow privatisation, which has gripped our country at the beginning of this century. What I can also say is that all this media hack and pomp we hear in the last few days means we're doing a good thing and we're on our way and all those who have something to hide, just like my colleague said before, that's how they're trying to defend themselves. The other thing that interests me is whether and how, in any way, the property of all those call politicians or former politicians who have acquired their wealth through co-operation and association with separatists from Pristina and with drug clans with KIM will be investigated. The same politicians who have been using this money for 10 years today to attack everything that is Serbian, attack on the state of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, President Aleksandar Vukic and all the efforts he has made to preserve Serbian unity and to preserve Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. When we talk about illegally acquired assets, we all know that it is a synonym for illegally acquired assets Dragan Gilas and those famous 619 million that are known, and we all know that his exponent in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the representative of his tycoon Alliance for Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, is Rada Trajkovic, or so on. Work with the Sava Wreath, which for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is fighting from Belgrade, telling Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija that they should live and be organised, not going to Kosovo and Metohija right here and not sharing the fate of their people in Kosovo and Metohija. Rada Trajkovic, as well as her coalition partners in Kosovo and Metohija, are using the money they receive from separatists or from Pristina, as well as the money they receive from Dragan Gilas, who stole from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, actively to break up Serbian unity in Kosovo and Metohija, using all the permitted and illicit funds. What they use primarily is these various media disinformation and false news and media spins. In recent days, we have witnessed the synchronised and conducting attempts by Pristina to have an appointment of high school students in Gracanica, i.e. in the village of Lipjan where the son, so-called. self-proclaimed Kosovo and Metohija politician Nenad Rasic found himself and injured, used as a cause for the fight to be presented as a political attack on his father because of his policy. Such unfounded, dangerous, but above all false accusations are a direct attempt to hide the truth, instead of his, we can say the free, Pristina scenario which has been exposed admits, Rasic is daily further involved in his lies. The only truth is that part of Section IV2, High School in Lippen village, where his son's department is going, has online classes this week, or that at the time of the scheduled fight, Mr. Rasic's son should have been at home following online. Now we can ask the question – what is he at the time of the scheduled fight, when the school didn't work for him, looking in the school yard when he was supposed to follow the class from home? Anyone from this can conclude that young Rasic came forward for an scheduled fight and it is clear to everyone, and it is not surprising to me, Albin Kurti, who says it is a political match with the same-minded Serbian list and Aleksandar Vukic. I am not surprised either by Vjos Osmani, I am surprised by the new Brankovic, i.e. the new Vuk Brankovic, Aleksandar Rasic, who, along with his coalition partner, has been using his son for political purposes and making himself available to Albino Kurti, who is trying to use it to attack the Republic of Serbia, on the Serbian list, on the SNS and on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. If they had little cheeks, and believe little cheek, it would take Rada Trajkovic, Nenad Rasic, Mladen Djordjevic, the godfather of Dragan Djilas and his longtime lawyer Kurtiev in Belgrade, what Deputy Dragan Djilas and Bosko Obradovic, who Kosovo Serbs remember by the greatest betrayal of Serbian interests in Kosovo and Metohija, to apologize for spreading lies, untrue, but above all to apologize all for political abuse of children. The charges that the Serb list organised the fight and attack against son Nenad Rasic are nothing more than desperate attempts, media spin of traitors Rasic, Trajkovic and other their partners in Pristina to justify another in a series of electoral debacle and electoral defeat. What the gentlemen don't know is that the only fight in which the Serb list and SNS can participate is a political struggle, is a fight, an election fight, and we always go into that election fight openly, we enter frontally clean hands, open cards, and we don't want to and we don't need to have support from Pristina. In previous elections, despite your support from Pristina, you won nothing more than one statistical error, and the Serbian list supported by President Aleksandr Vukic, supported by Serbs at KIM and SNS, won a record 96% of Serbian votes at KIM. No false news you're playing along with Kurti won't change it, because Serbs know who works for them, Serbs know that only the Serb list, along with SNS and President Aleksandr Vukic, can guarantee the survival and survival and security of the Serb people in KIM. So now Rada Trajkovic, or Rada from the Savawedding, Nenad Rasic and their friend Aljbin Kurti, will tell various lies and lies, but it will not follow their hand, because they are caught in submission and the more they try to get away with these lies from day to day, the more they get involved in them. It is clear to everyone here and everyone in KIM that as much as we hate Serbs, it is because of the international community that a few of them need. He is now trying to make some of his Serbs, from Rasic, Trajkovic and other his fellow Serbs, promote them as the only legitimate Serbs in KIM, the only legitimate representatives of the Serbs in KIM and as such include them in order to justify their future government, as the government also has minority parties in its composition. The truth cannot be hidden, nor can the ground motives of Albanian separatists, but unfortunately some Serbian politicians from KIM and Belgrade, led by Dragan Gilas, which is to try to criminalise the Serb list, SNS, the state of Serbia and the president of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, all because of the convincing support of the people and success in the elections they are not forgiven. I would just ask them today, would the gentlemen, the individual ambassadors of Pristina, who ran better to condemn this organized fight of children as a political attack, and would, when another Serbian child, whose father is not committed to Pristina, be attacked or any other Serb at KIM, also rush to protect him and seek the response of the International Community and the reaction of the authorities in Pristina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3401	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bratislava Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3402	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President, honourable Members of the People, honourable minister, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I comment very briefly on something about this amendment, I would like to thank Parliamentarian Aleksandar Martinovic publicly for today's performance and presentation. I appeal to the students of the Faculty of Political Sciences, to all who want to deal with politics, Serbian citizens, to find this performance and speech on the parliament's website, that hour of history and learn from the best. He is certainly one of the best in this House, not only in this assembly, but also in previous councils. As for this amendment submitted by the MP, Honorable MP Vladimir Djukanovic, I will be pleased to vote, and we will all, of course, vote in favour of the assembly majority and thus send a signal to the citizens of Serbia that we care very much about the application of this law starting within the time limit, within the shortest possible time. I would like to remind you that Mr. Mika Jokic, a National MP from Valjev, two days ago discussing this law noted that in December 2019 we voted this law and that until today there was no application. So we will remind everyone of Bosko Obradovic, who has formally advocated for years to pass this law, and has never publicly asked the question - where did you get the millions of bosses of Gilas? So that's what I'm saying is that it's more important than voting this law to apply this law. President Alexander Vukic said to get away from him first. And here we insist, first ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, first all of us here from parliament, first local SNS officials, then these yellow thieves. I'm sure the SNS has 500-600 thousand members, it's impossible that among the 600,000 members there is no one who has not sinned, not all are so honorable and fair, someone who has entered politics for their own interests, who has abused the budget of the Republic of Serbia or the budget of municipalities and cities and acquired property, to say big assets, some unworthy wealth. Most of all, I will rejoice when it is proved that someone actually abused Alexander Vukic's foothold with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, he came into office and stole it. First of all, I like to have them covered by this law. I don't want Alexander Vukic paying the bills of some who are unfair in SNS. But truth be told, these are very, very few. For us here who are in the congregation majority, that's a little bit much. You know, I came up with the idea of coming into a work suit today with a helmet and that window cleaning tool. I'm just so offended by Dragan Gilas when he says he made 619 million by cleaning windows. He makes fun of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For us voters who voted President Alexander Vukic's capital, it is an invaluable fortune for us, and for them it is just unnecessary burdens. This law will clean up the political scene in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we'd like some honest and honorable people on the opposition side of the scene to be an alternative to this government. We look forward to it, because this is how Serbia will move forward faster than it is going, and it is already going incomparably faster than the countries in the region, and for that, truth be told, we owe the most gratitude to Alexander Vukic. You can see today's research published in the daily newspaper "Blic" where citizens believe the most, i.e. that we have this number of vaccines, 60% of the citizens who said themselves believe it is because of the reputation Alexander Vukic has in international politics. So, to finish, maybe I've gone over five minutes, and I need other colleagues to say something, applying this law is a priority and a point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3403	Thank you. I'm taking the opportunity to remind the MPs that in 15 minutes, we will end this debate. The word is made by the People's Messenger Mihajlo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3404	I'd like to make an addition. I vote in favour of this amendment, I voted on the board. What would I suggest, a respected minister? That you, at the government, suggest or today we here in writing, conclude or conclude that at the first session of the autumn session, we will talk again about this law, that is, the results of the application of this law. I think that conclusion, that writing and your commitment to the government would be an additional stimulant for those who will apply this law, for the people that this law expected, because this law has long been expected. This law is expected to happen. That's my suggestion. The other thing was, was there anyone from Valyev. Mr. Jugovic said - I'm from Valjev. We from Valjev expect one, two, three factories to start the first factory. The road from Valjev to Lajkovec progresses at the expected pace. We expect it to be done within 2022. The city of Valjevo is working its way into the industrial zone and we expect a better one. So much for me and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3405	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3406	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. I won't use much time, but I will take advantage of the presence of the minister of justice of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I recently asked the Kosovo office about the arrest of my fellow citizen Svetomir Bačević and the answer came from the Kosovo Office. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Petkovic for the answer he has received, because I have not received such a quality answer to the question I have asked as an MP for a long time. All of what I've cited and asking questions as a guess turned out to be true. In fact, the Kosovo Office has hired a lawyer who is trying to defend Mr. Bačevic against unwarranted charges. What is the fact that a lawyer has established is that Svetomir Bacevic has been reported by Samir Ceku, who is the brother of Albanian politician Agim Ceku and a monopoly in real estate trade for the village of Belo Polje. It is known by the family, as indicated in its response to the Kosovo Office, because it sold part of its property through it in early 2020. However, when they insisted on buying from the Bacevic family all the land they have in the White Pole, and they rejected it, then it was decided to report him for a alleged crime against a certain Mrs Hattice Kadrire, allegedly abused by Svetomir Bacevic. By the way, remember that I was talking about a severe heart disease. So, distinguished minister, in this quass of Kosovo, I say this consciously for the public, not because we don't know that this is happening, everyone knows that this is happening, I have in response countless, unfortunately, other examples, this is selective justice, this is an organized attempt by so-called authorities in Pristina not to allow either returnees who wish to return to their hearths to do so, nor to resist the pressure to buy from them by force properties that do not want to sell. It's not Mr. Bačević's case alone. Zoran Vukotic, from Prilužje, minor identical cases, Darko Tasic, Skender Bijelimi from Kosovo Polje, is a Roma extradited by Bosnia and Herzegovina, Zoran Djokic, also displaced face from Peća, Zlatan Krstic, Goran Stanisic, Nenad Arsic, etc. This is in an incomplete year of countless examples. What does that look like? When you come down to the southern Serbian province with the ambition to exercise any of your rights, because you simply have certain rights, and then you are unable to buy from you by force the property under false charges. Bačević was even without the knowledge of the lawyer, as stated in the Kosovo Office's allegations, a 30-day detention that was extended at the start to 60 days without justification, although for as long as no part of the investigation was launched, nothing happened in the investigation process on a specific topic. I'm saying this because of our public and I'm saying this because of the European public, who rarely has a selective approach. I'm also saying this because we are constantly being pressured to improve our judiciary, so I'm thinking about what kind of double arches they are, how transparent they should be, how much we need to be under constant pressure, while we're being silent about what's going on and what's the practice that, unfortunately, our citizens are suffering. I don't think anyone would realize that even though I have access to this now, it's a selective approach to better pass by even members of Albanian nationality living in Kosovo and Metohija, in terms of law enforcement. So this is the justice of the so-called Kosovo, this is the justice of the state they've done at all costs, but it's no wonder under the circumstances that the state that was made exclusively of money acquired in an illegal way, not to mention again how it happened. Thank you for your patience, thank you for your understanding. I had to say this. I would like to thank the Kosovo Office once again for a professional relationship with these difficult fates of people, above all, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia who recognized that it is necessary to have such an office and that it is not an office on paper, as they can often accuse us, but rather do their job in the part in which it is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3407	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3408	Thank you for this question and for this presentation, because I would use this pay phone to talk to and bring to the public Serbia exactly those double standards. What I wanted to state on this occasion was the UN tribunal's failure to decide, that is, the mechanism that remained after the tribunal on the demands of our convicts on parole. It is something that has not been recorded in the world, and Serbia is honored not to work enough on human rights. They don't decide human rights at all. In concrete cases, this is about the practical statement of death, given that the Hague indictees are people of over 70 years of age and that the non-determination of these rights violates these rights, and Serbia is constantly being respected that it is not working enough to improve human rights, the famous Chapter 23. Yes, we want to do everything to meet all the requirements of Chapter 23, but we believe that all our citizens should have the same treatment wherever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3409	Thank you. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3410	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr Orlic, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected minister with associate, I am reporting under the amendment to the amendment to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Origin of Property and Special Taxation. At the third session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's extraordinary session in the 12th session, we are considering a bill on amendments to the Law establishing the origin of property and a special tax. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has discussed the amendment submitted to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the designation of origin of property and specific tax and decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt the amendment to Article 11. The bill also states that there are reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger. My fellow MPs from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – told our children all about how important this law is and changes and additions to this law. To see how much it takes for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to see this law that enters into force on March 12th of this year and the amendments to this law in the Assembly, I will present reasoned examples that Serbia's budget has been robbed and that a series of persons who did so cannot justify the value of their property and its origin. Also, they mainly illegally obtained incomes that were the source of their assets, and all those persons were involved in politics and during the period of illegal wealth they performed a number of government functions. Some people have property coverage and their reported incomes, but revenues themselves have been obtained in an illegal manner. The 75% tax rate provided for by this property tax law that cannot be determined is excellent. I would remind you, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that this law is one of the evidence that the priorities set by President Aleksandar Vukic are being implemented in six basic objectives of the new government of the Republic of Serbia, and one of these goals is the fight against corruption and the fight against the mafia. I will talk about the illegal origin of income, and thus we will call the former leaders of the Democratic Party – Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Bojan Pajtic. Dragan Djilas performed three state functions between 2004 and 2014, and his companies gained a business income of 619m euros during that period, according to aggregated data from the Agency for Business Registers, and the net profit of his companies was 106m euros. It is suspected that this enormous money has been acquired by abuse of its official position. He became one of Serbia's richest citizens. With Gilas, of course, his own brother Gojko, also co-owner of his brother's company, got rich. At the end of Gilas's term as Belgrade Finance Mayor, Belgrade was never worse. Belgrade's debt was 1.2 billion euros. In 2011, then-President of the Anti-Corruption Council Verica Barac presented key evidence in the Council's 2011 report of what Gilas was doing and quoted, she said, "The media in Serbia have been captured, and the government has established control over the media through Dragan Djilas, the closest co-worker of the then-president Boris Tadic." Verica Barac added that Djilas, former Belgrade Mayor and Democratic Party Vice-President, has two media firms that run channels for money and buy commercials and other influences on the media. Then we'll go after Vuk Jeremic. His wife and family members also possess a large number of properties in the country and abroad that are suspected of being acquired in an illegal manner. According to transaction data, through foreign and dinar accounts in the period from 2013 to 2016, on the accounts of entrepreneurship pi-ar agencies and NGOs, i.e. The Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development, Vuk Jeremic, paid $1.33m donations for the agency and $5.95m for the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development. That is, therefore, $7.5m, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But there is evidence that out of these 7.5m dollars – 1.5m dollars of that money, Jeremic used in the 2016 presidential election campaign, although funding of the pre-election campaign money came from abroad is most strictly prohibited by law. The way in which Jeremic acted and fairness testifies to the fact that during his five-year ministerial mandate, he spent more than 3.6m from the Republic of Serbia's budget on his luxurious ministerial journeys. He also assigned himself, according to our MP Mirkovic, 12 000 euros annually, i.e. The five-year-olds, about 60,000 euros a daily, doubling the amount of his five-year salary. As early as 2011, state auditors established the illegal business of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I will also refer to Bojan Pajtic and remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that he has just participated in the greatest robbery in the history of Vojvodina's kidnapping of people's couples from Vojvodina Development Bank and all province funds, and you can imagine, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that he has robbed money even from children with disabilities, from disabled people, etc. Let me remind you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that former Democratic Party leader Bojan Pajtic also refused a polygraph examination and that it is crystal clear here who is telling the truth and who is lying. I do not want to mention Sasa Radulovic, Marinika Tepic, Bosko Obradovica, Zelenovica. They, like these previous ones, told themselves everything about who they were and how they were and how they robbed the Republic of Serbia's budget at the time they were in power. Whether the hand of the law will reach these thieves will we see, we hope it will, and all others who illegally have come to enormous property. All right, everybody, let's take a look at each other. The assets of all persons will be checked, starting with persons who are believed to be the difference in the maximum three consecutive calendar years between the increase in assets and the registered income of that natural person, which is more than 150,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, in the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia. Given that, according to the economic situation in the Republic of Serbia, this amount is the lower limit of obtaining the property on which a special tax is paid, if it is established in the process that the property acquired is less than the prescribed lower limit, the tax administration will also apply this law and tax the illegally acquired property which is less than the prescribed lower limit by applying the tax rate of 75%. I will support all the laws discussed at the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I invite my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children to do the same. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3411	Thank you, Mr. Boskovic. With this presentation, we've exhausted the planned time for discussion, and I'm concluding a review of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. I thank Minister Popovic and all the MPs who took part in the work. In accordance with Articles 27 and 205. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break now. We continue at 1600 hours in the second part of the session, when we expect representatives of the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3412	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 1900 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask questions. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Following an answer to the MP's question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare a response of no more than two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. As you know, as in the debate, the People's MPs who do not belong to any of the MPs will first receive the word, and then the MPs from the smallest to the largest group of MPs. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. I would like to welcome Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to thank the already established practice that both she and a large number of government members attend this important instrument for asking questions and in some way control and supervision of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since the parliamentary groups have already signed up, we're going in a row. The first has a word, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3413	Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, my question concerns "Rio Tinta" because I do not see that there is a minister in charge of mining. I expect the Prime Minister to answer that question. First of all, the question is why there was no public debate regarding the change in the spatial plan of special purpose, because the previous plan envisaged that Rio Tinto should keep his dumps on the hills, not in the Adriatic River valley. The valley of the river Jadra is a watery area. We know that in 2014, we had floods that caused a major problem with mines that are far less dangerous than the Rio Tinta mine. We are in a situation that the gap that will be there, which is literally millions of tons of gaps, is not a mere gap, plain soil and clay, but a by-product treated with sulfuric acid of high concentrate. I heard from President Rio Tinta that they will invest 100m euros in environmental protection, but at a time when they receive 551m euros per year from what they will extract, lithium and pine, and the state of Serbia only gets 7.6m from it and at the time when their officials say when the mine is going to work, only 700 people are employed there. The question is, is it justified to risk such a huge ecological disaster that can happen? It is a big question of whether it is a public interest, because the interest of Rio Titan is clear. What's our interest when it can pollute the whole area and destroy what we could do on agriculture, organic food, we get it all in that amount. I think that in terms of multinational corporations of foreign people who come here to have special caution, because it is clear and now, after 30 years of wild transition around the world, it is clear that multinational corporations have no interest in developing the country they are coming to, let's say, Serbia that has a mine rent of only 4%, unlike European countries that have up to 20% of the mining rent, is kind of running as a cheap country for them. As far as I'm aware of all of these elaborates that we can determine how real the supplies are, it's patented by "Rio Tint" and when environmental activists asked to see the insight, they've blacked out all the important positions and about the supplies and all that, so these are all signals that we need to be careful about when they're concerned. On the other hand, as far as I know if it's true that we from the mining inspectors, we have about five officers or more. How they will even be able to control "Rio Tinto", because that way we trust them very much, and what they have left in Papua New Guinea and Australia, it says that we need to be very careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3414	Thank you. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3415	Thank you. Dear People's MP, I want to thank you for asking. I think it's an extremely important topic. An important topic is also for our citizens and in the area of the environment, it is an important topic for the economy of the Republic of Serbia and for our overall economic transformation. An extremely important topic for our future and thank you for starting this respected home here, because I think it's important that we talk about this as much as possible, as openly as possible, as transparently as possible, because it's being handled by half-information or misinformation, and it's really an extremely important topic. So there's no better place than this to talk about it. I was even thinking about starting a debate on this topic within the Ministry of Human, Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. I want first of all to you and all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially the citizens and residents of Loznica and Western Serbia, to say that the greatest attention will be paid to the environment, that, as so far, Rio Titna will be required to adhere to the best environmental standards and that we will continue to work with them. As for the public debate on the spatial plan. As far as I know she was held, which doesn't mean she won't discuss it further. They are in the process of making studies on environmental impact assessment. Again as far as I know, and often we talk to them, I assure you, and I follow this project to detail. They're in the process, so they're doing environmental impact studies that are due to be completed by June of this year. Of course, until the environmental impact study is completed, until the public debate on the impact study is completed, no final decision will be made on the progress of the project. I spoke to the people of Rio Tinta several times, and they assure me that they have really good and constant communication with the local community, not only with the town of Loznica, but with the people on the ground. So where this mine is going to be, where it's potentially possible where there's going to be a mine. Once again, I want to point out to all those who don't understand that it's an underground mine, that this mine in that sense will in no way compromise the processing surfaces, agricultural land or anything else. So it's the most modern underground mine. We're talking about two locations for that so-called. The dump but both locations are still in circulation, they're talking about both. After all, it will be as determined by the environmental impact study, but of course the largest vote will be given to local people in Loznica as well as to Krupanj. It is important to note that they also work on the most modern technology to process their waste, so it has the least possible impact on the environment. As far as I understand it, it's going to be some solid waste, which won't in any way endanger the environment, and don't give the river to God, but I really think that we all need to keep talking together, that all of this has to be completely and absolutely transparent. After all, I'm open to talking to locals. Where's the public interest in that? I'll tell you a few things, I've been talking, after all, and in the exposé of this project. The public interest is that it is a total investment of over one billion and five hundred million euros in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in Loznica, so it is certainly negligible. In addition, according to everything we have at this time, this is a bed that provides the Republic of Serbia with about 10% of the world's reserves of lithium and the absolute largest bed of lithium in Europe, a bed that can be measured with Chile, Argentina, Australia, so really one huge treasure. That wealth will never be the wealth of any company, not even Rio Tinta, that's our fortune. They get the right to exploit, but that's our fortune. In this regard, we really have excellent communication with Rio Tint compared to all other investment contracts, so we said – it will absolutely be impossible to export lithium from Serbia as raw materials, but in Serbia we have to make half a product or a final product in order for our overall economy to develop on this basis. They were open and they talked and helped us, after all, to talk to all the manufacturers of batteries, electric vehicles and everything else. I think that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to see some of the first contracts in the coming period, and yet of all this they have the greatest benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our economy, our economy, our average salaries, budget, pensions, so indeed one huge resource. So, between these two things, between us becoming a European battery production centre, for the production of electric cars, for the production of some other things from lithium, for it to be in the Republic of Serbia, and for the investment of Rio Tinta itself, of over one billion and five hundred million euros, of course, which I don't even have to say, therefore, maximum respect for all living standards, I think it's one thing and one opportunity for Serbia that we can't and can't miss. I tell you, two basic things - respect for the environment and another thing - we will not allow lithium to be exported as raw materials, because it is our wealth, the wealth of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for asking. I'm here to keep talking. You can come to my office and we can keep talking about this. I really don't think there's a more important issue at this point, in general, for both the economy and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3416	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3417	It's good information that lithium will not be exported from our country, it's a good fact, and I think it's the right path. What's interesting is the question of our four-and-a-half-percent mining rental. In other European countries, it goes much more, from 10% to 20%, and with other corresponding taxes, it is one of them in case minerals are exported, since it will not be exported here, it is not normal to charge it, but they have environmental taxes and they have a different level of land mining fees. They go to some countries up to 50%. Not necessarily, of course, Serbia that is fighting for industrial and economic development to go that way, but I think it would be good to think about raising that mining rent. Something that's the same thing about my neighborhood, the Arangel, which has mineral water. As far as I'm concerned, we don't have any compensation for the mineral water that's being dug up. She, unlike the mine rent, isn't covered and that's also a big problem. So, in any case, this investment is significant and this way can justify this public interest. But on the other hand, when you look at all these technologies being patented, which they're doing, we have to trust them with the word that they're going to be such that it's going to be a waste that can be stored not to cause an ecological disaster. However, many people from the environmental NGO sector, some other experts say there is a problem because there are two models. One is concentrated sulfuric acid to wash that ore. There needs to be a large amount of water. It's a big question of how it's gonna be stored afterwards. Also, as I understand it, activates the process at 250 degrees Celsius. It's a huge amount of energy that we need to bring to some new thermal power plants where we're going to use or fossil fuels, which means, again, secondaryly leads to the situation of some possible ecological and pollution and problems. It's all back to how many organs in the state we have that can control and how much they'll be able to control Rio Tint. We know we have a problem with foreign investors and labour inspection and everything, before we have enough people to control it. These are all questions that are attached to this. Thank you for calling. I'll be free to answer your call. I wish I could come along with environmental activists, have them ask some questions, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3418	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3419	Dear People's MP, we agreed on a meeting, so it will be truly my greatest pleasure. I want us all to participate in this together, because this isn't really a matter of particular interest and to take this seriously, that we have all the information in front of us when we make a decision and that it's our joint decision and that we stand behind it together. What is also extremely important, I think that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand and all of us here, and that is that it is not just us who control the whole process, and if our standards are quite high, we, as a government, will try to further and improve them and increase them. What's important to understand, and what's going to be our special challenge in the future as a country, is that this whole industry has changed. So, you today, if you want to, say, use lithium to produce batteries and produce electric vehicles, which is a huge industry, a huge potential fortune for the Republic of Serbia and for our citizens, phenomenal businesses of excellent quality, excellently paid jobs, but what will certainly be a challenge and what, after all, Rio Tinto must respect, which is that you have a product that is clean with its entire chain. Therefore, when Rio Tinto is sold, in the end, that ‘Battery builds lithium’, or lithium that is good for battery production, they will have to prove that they have respected all standards of the environment, because some electric vehicle manufacturers, including Volkswagen, Mercedes, Daimler Chrysler, will not generally buy it unless they have confirmed that all standards of the environment in this sense have been met. The challenge for the Republic of Serbia is that we continue to have a wave of electricity production from the thermal power plants, 70% from the thermal power plants, and about 30% from renewable energy sources. In that sense, we have what's called a dirty network. So it's our biggest challenge to bring these people in. We will be able to bring these people to produce, say, electric vehicles or batteries in the Republic of Serbia only when we show them that we are moving into our energy transition so that they will have pure energy from which they will draw, which they will use for their production. So it's all a green economy that's trying to, so in that sense we're not the only ones who are going to control this whole production process, but they're going to ask us to have an energy transition, which we think is good, and as a government, we're committed to it. But on the other hand, we have to take care of the standard of living of our citizens, that electricity prices, because they don't grow too fast, so they don't grow before our average salaries and pensions grow, to preserve and improve citizens' living standards. So, I have to admit that this is a really complex task ahead of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I have also talked several times with a constant conference of cities and municipalities and with local self-governments on raw materials used by local self-government, and here, I promise to sit with Finance Minister and Minister Obradovic, to see how we can solve this problem, but personally, at least one part of these fees go to local self-government, I think that would be more than fair. As for the issue of mining rent, it is also a complex issue, where you see that the mining rent is not high, to discourage investors, and yet not to be low, so that we do not have income for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know that Minister Mihajlovic also raised the issue, we are thinking about it, but we are looking for a stable framework for investors somewhere, that they know why they can count in the Republic of Serbia, to continue with this trend of bringing and foreign direct investment, but we also have a growing range of the mining sector of local companies, which is particularly encouraging and encouraging them to invest more. I would really like to conclude once again by drawing attention to the message of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, today for all citizens of Valjevo for a new investment in Valjevo, where we will lay the cornerstone this summer. Another big important thing for Valjevo, the new 500 jobs and negotiations with another German investor, so we push on, but all this couldn't possibly have a truly stable business environment. It is important that we keep it, but also care for the interests of our people, our citizens, our businesses, and our mines and all other raw materials. I'll give you a call, and I'll see you at my place these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3420	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3421	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected executives, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, are in direct contact with the citizens, and our own programme is strongly facing the future. Given the fact that even in this time that is very challenging, we are very often aware that only large strategic projects can contribute to a safer future for our future generations. I want to ask two concrete questions concerning very important investment projects that will affect the overall way of life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The first of them is the "Balkan Stream", something that is very important and that we should build on a large part of the future of our country. Of course, what we are interested in and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is what does it mean for citizens specifically to support the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure of this project? The second issue, which is also very important and that has been going through different visions in the social community for decades, is building a Belgrade subway. The issue is often under way in pre-election campaigns. Very often we had different leads, different ways to talk about him. However, we are particularly interested, as are the citizens, when will the works on building a Belgrade subway begin, and what has been done so far on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3422	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3423	Thank you. As for the issue of "Balkan Stream", or pipeline, it is indeed an extremely important issue in several segments for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First, I am extremely happy and very proud that we managed to complete the construction of the "Balkan Stream" in record time and that we released it on January 1st this year. "Balkan Stream" for the Republic of Serbia means two big things. It means we have another source of gas, which means we have more gas in the Republic of Serbia, which means much more energy security and stability. It also means that we will be able to provide one really important energy for future work of the economy, but also an extremely important energy for further transformation in the field of environmental protection, because by the end of this year we plan to replace central heating systems in some of the most polluted cities, i.e. boiler rooms where they are on the mule and where they are on coal to bring gas and that will mean a really indescribable lot for the citizens of these cities. One of the first cities where we do this is the Kragujevac and it's going to be one of the greatest things and I mean what we're going to do in general in the term of this government. Indeed, if you can do something for the citizens, and it is visible, that it is important for the citizens today, for the future, it will be the replacement of this boiler room, and it all allows us this "Balkan current". In addition, one big thing that we may not talk about enough, "Balkan Stream" for us means that we are becoming from a country that buys gas and pays transit fees in a transit country, or a country to which someone pays transit fees and that is a complete change of perspective for our energy security and, ultimately, for revenue for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So we're becoming a transit country for gas. Big deal. Politically, this wasn't easy to push. Many thanks to President Vukic for his success, after all, and because with his insistence and his co-operation with his Russian Federation partners, we managed to end it within this record period. This meant a lot to us both for our GDP and in 2019 and in this difficult 2020, so at this point we are already somehow completely different from this energy security position. What does that put before us as a task? Well, let's see where we further expand the pipeline network, how fast and how we prioritize so that we can ensure that the economy develops even faster and especially where we don't currently have enough investment to bring gas to investors and industrial areas. A big job was done here by the Department of Industry. I thank Angie here for everything she's done as Minister of Economy. We continue construction and equipment, complete municipal equipment of industrial zones throughout the Republic of Serbia, and I hope to be able to visit Triestenik as well. That's where we built a modern industrial zone. So, further "Balkan Stream" allows us to expand the pipeline network across the Republic of Serbia. As for the Belgrade subway, we already signed the pre-negotiations with some Chinese companies, with some French companies. We've been budgeting in 2021 for the start of the metro building, for the feasibility study, for all those studies we need to start building project-technical documentation, and now with the greatest certainty I can say that by the end of this year we'll be going to build a Belgrade subway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3424	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3425	Good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, honourable President, dear People's MPs, dear government members, above all, if you'll allow me, since this is the first time I have spoken to this House of National Assembly, the basic place in our political system, I would just like to say what an honor this is for me and my privilege and I will really try as a member of the Government and before you as Members of Parliament to justify the trust that we do a lot to the common forces in favour of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I would like to point out that as a member of the government, it is my great pleasure to have such strong support for the MPs. Before I answer the question, I would just like to add that I really have a little nervousness when I talk to people I've heard a lot in the past in the National Assembly, many of whom I've learned, many of whom I've learned about politics and the social system and the economy and the social organization of society and now, in this situation where I have to address myself as a member of the government, I can't say that I don't care. I would really like to point out that as one rapper of this political organisation leading this country for almost ten years, headed by the President of the Republic, which we are all part of together and I am convinced that we have made the joint forces incredible steps in the previous period and I am convinced that in this most difficult time in recent decades, in terms of the crown crisis, we will be able to pull out the country and achieve incredible results, at least as we did last year, when we are the first country to grow GDP in Europe. I'm sorry, I'm giving myself too much insight, but I can't say one more thing. Both in the previous period and as a member of the government, and just before that, I had really listened to my fellow MPs who were here for the first time. I honestly felt proud listening to them. I think they had great exposure. I think they turned out to be real fighters, and it's natural that all those who will never, likely, be in their position tried to disrespect them. Don't mind that. I don't want to pay attention to that. We're here because we're winners. We're here because we lead this country responsibly, together, and I ask you to continue together, so that we can all continue together, to win. Here, first of all, I'm talking to younger colleagues who have shown strength, knowledge, skill, sometimes like me, some kind of nervousness, so maybe they've made a mistake once in a while. Is that terrible? No, I don't. They'll try to make fun of you, try to put you behind them. Don't mind it, push forward, you owe it to this country, we owe it to this country. Only by common forces can we win and get this country out and make up for everything that's been missed for decades. Forget it, it is not in 2012 to this political organization and, above all, to the President of the Republic, and then to all of you, this country is given in the best possible condition. The salaries were low, unemployment was over 25%. Today we don't talk about it anymore. I'm really sorry, I don't want to spread too much about this, but I think these are very important things that as someone who talks for the first time, I mention one more time. The question - the Belgrade subway. Would I be able to relate to everything I've said? Can anyone, if seriously imagine, seriously believe that we're talking about the Belgrade subway as something that's a real project, which we're really going to do first very soon by the end of this year, in particular in November at the depot, and then next year on the first line, which will go from Railway to Miriev, in two years after we start the second line from Zemun to Miriev? Could anyone have talked about it just 10 years ago? Remember, there's been talk of a Belgrade subway since the 1970s. Many administrations talked about it. Was something done before this political organization came, headed by the President of the Republic? Not that it didn't move, nothing was done. This most complex project, which is the project value of around 4.4 billion for the first two lines, and I remind you, our goal is to build three lines, is the biggest investment in Belgrade's history. We'll be doing it real quick. By the end of this year, the dump works start two years later, i.e. The next year, the work begins on line two, in 2028, we finish the first line, in 2030 we finish the second line. I wouldn't want to put too much pressure on you with the technical details we've talked about, and I could really talk about it a lot. I would like to mention, above all, for the citizens of Belgrade and for all who are gravitating Belgrade, building a Belgrade subway cannot be seen in isolation for themselves. Along with building a Belgrade subway, we are going to invest in the Belgrade train, a local traffic station, we are going to invest, we are moving a second track to work towards Batajnica, to connect with the airport, on the other hand with Obrenovac. Simply, traffic in Belgrade is part of one whole. We have to watch him like that. That is why we are negotiating parallelly with people who will help us to keep the traffic organisation adequate in the next period. I wouldn't really want to say, like, the youngest member of this government and as someone who talks for the first time, that I take too much of a word, I could say a lot more after that. I would just like to take a brief look at the pipeline and the Balkan flow, although it is essentially the primary field of energy. Investments in the Balkan Stream are around 1.5 billion euros, in GDP they account for slightly more than 3.3%, 3.4%. They are very important for Serbia's construction. In the previous month, we have really worked really hard to amend the rules on pipeline connections, and I would really like to thank my colleague Irena Vujovic, the people of Serbia. We've been trying hard to settle this to cut the price for people's connections to the pipeline. So 95% of gas pipeline users are small households and small consumers up to 400 square meters. We must enable them to easily attach to the pipeline, to start using this environmentally perfect energy and, of course, as the Prime Minister said, there is no industry without the pipeline. We've taken great steps here. In the next period, we'll take even bigger steps. If you'll excuse me for being late here, to apologize to both the Prime Ministers and all of you, I was on the road to Lykovac-Valjevo. Big investments, the president of the Republic and the people in his cabinet are bringing big investments to Valjevo, and we're really under pressure to do this traffic as quickly as possible. She seems pretty simple. We're talking about 18 kilometers. However, they have two bridges of a total length of 2600 metres. We will really do our best to attach Valjevo to Milos the Great, which is to build this fast traffic station, so that these investments and all the others will come to this city faster. Thanks again and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3426	Thank you. Does Ambassador Fehratovic want a word again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3427	I thank you for your answers. I believe that, in particular these announcements, the resources derived from these infrastructure development projects will be further deployed to rebuild and rebuild others, especially those within the interior of parts of important infrastructure projects, will be enjoyed by all citizens, as will the Sandzak citizens who look forward to gasification with impatience. My supplemental question will now relate to this macro-investment policy on micro-investment policy, i.e. to the problem that we have been asked by the Malinaries of Priboj to bring here and ask on behalf of them for help from the state authorities, especially from the top of the executive government, and it is 17 raspberries whose family business, which, in fact, with the launch of that family business, have tried to provide the basic means of living for themselves and their families. A few years ago, however, they encountered a problem that they gave some of their raspberries to Babic from Aryl. It's about 50 tons of raspberries. And they never got the money for what they produced. These people are on the verge of existence. None of them do any of the other jobs and their families live, in fact, from that rarity. For them, that 50 tonnes, or that 50,000 euros, of the minimum amount of the debt, means survival in those areas that are threatened anyway and which are left on the wind anyway, that these people are fighting for their own existence. It's such a tough case that these people have been trying to get to their resources in various ways, so they've been asking some lawyers to start the proceedings. However, the funds they are asked to do so are very large, enormous, if they are not in a position to afford it to solve their problem. So on their behalf, I would ask the prime minister, who, during her visit to Priboj, encouraged the local population to return to production, and in particular encouraged representatives of the Bosniak and Muslim communities in her own words to get rid of these technical things about the construction of the mosque, to engage in this problem, so that through the example of these raspberries, who are left to themselves, we would give encouragement to everyone who has embarked on family businesses, to continue to deal with this business, and that it is the state that guarantees and who stands by them, and against all those who abuse their torment and their work and efforts to provide funds to themselves and their family.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3428	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3429	I know about that problem. He is aware of this problem and the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Nedimovic. What's the problem here is that it's a sale relationship between the two sides and there's little the state can do. So they must interfere, I suppose, with the judicial authorities and see what can be done, but I promise you once again here that I will see Minister Nedimovic if there is anything we can do, so we will be in touch. In addition, I would like once again to ask all of our food producers to look at what our beekeepers have done, to learn from the example of the Union of Beekeeping Organisations of Serbia, who have come out, came to the government with a phenomenal project where they have asked them to build their own plant, that beekeepers themselves have their own plant for collecting and packing and laying honey, where we have also provided financial support. The Raca municipality gave the best conditions. That drive was built today. Thanks to this drive, the price of honey, or the selling price of honey, jumped between 100% and 250%. That honey is being brought into their drive. This is the engine of Serbia's Beekeeping Organisation, the placekeeper. We, as Government, helped here and with some other equipment, helped with the marketing campaign, with the packing. That honey is almost completely exported. Everything is paid in advance. Beekeepers, I mean, they've never been more pleased. You have beekeepers from all over the region, from Croatia, from BiH, who show it as an example and say so - how it can't be with us. So, really one amazing project, but look up to them, organize yourselves, people, don't depend on the wholesalers alone. It makes sense somewhere, but if you see that you can achieve the price yourself, organize yourself together, come to us, try to place it on the market yourself and have your own safety, your safety, you'll get the best prices, and we're here to help you. Indeed, what we have done, I call upon everyone to go into the power of the beekeeper in Ratche, to see how it is done. It is indeed the pride of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, our beekeepers, the entire Republic of Serbia, and that is something we have managed to do, believe me, in 18 months. So fast, efficient, with very motivated beekeepers. Don't come into this situation, and I promise, here, once again, that with Minister Nedimovic we will look at this, see as much as we can help these people and keep fighting together. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3430	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3431	Thank you, dear Prime Minister. It is very important that citizens, especially those who deal with this family business hear these messages of encouragement and what the state should do, what I believe it will do, is at least have this legal aid in every way to provide, and of course finds mechanisms, make up for them somehow, because their further work depends on it, depending on the future of their families. Today, I have asked these questions for the reason that we are MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, aware that these capital projects are a stock for the future of the Serbian state and of all those living in its space. Of course, they are founded in the Agreement of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the SNS, as a basis, as the base on which we met and for which we will fight in the next period, in every sense, to live maximum and therefore it is very important that we heard all these messages today. It is very important that these capital projects do not bypass any part of the state of Serbia, that for all of them they are equally accessible, equally all citizens will feel the benefits of all these projects. That is why we are looking forward to further engagement on all these projects, and that everything that is in the Agreement between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the SNS, as the main and leading institution of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia, will be implemented in the Sandzak area as well as in the entire territory of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3432	Thank you. I just want to remind once again of government representatives, especially those who have never been to the government or the Assembly. When questions are raised like this, when the MP is called for the third time, he actually declares a two-minute answer. So, after that third exposure, no more government representatives reporting. If you have something to answer, find some procedural opportunity to answer others. Let me teach you a little bit, so we don't break the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. The word has a folk MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3433	I thank you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, I ask the question of state administration ministers and local self-government Maria Obradovic. The issue concerns the support of the Ministry of Local Self-Government Units. In fact, you said when you took responsibility for the work of this portfolio in this term, that one of the priorities of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government would be to support local self-government units, not only through budget funds, but also through other kinds of support and co-operation. I'm curious what you've done on this matter so far and what exactly is the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government doing at this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3434	Thank you. Minister Marija Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3435	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being present in this large number at the Serbian Parliament Hall, because it is very important for Serbian citizens to see how much interest they are in using this mechanism of control over the work of the Serbian Government, and this really shows how serious we are as a society and how much we want to be present, informed about all the processes that are happening here and here in this legislative body, and certainly within the Serbian Government. Mrs. Vacic, thank you for this question. We are not coming from the same political party, and I am a little surprised that the issue is addressed to me, but in any case, it shows that you are very interested in what is happening across Serbia in cities and municipalities. What the party you are coming from is good co-operation with SNS representatives in cities and municipalities, and that's something we're really proud of, because citizens need to see every day this unity of political parties who are trying at this difficult moment to create something that is good for Serbia, at this difficult moment when we're fighting with a covid, while at the same time trying to maintain some pace of economic reforms. It's important for citizens to see when it takes us to be unique, that we really are, and it's so much more important for me that you actually asked me this question. I somehow understood it, although it is questionable, in support of what the Ministry of State and local self-government are doing, because we at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are trying to be a parent home to cities and municipalities. We are not in the first place the ministry that has a large budget and thanks to whose funds we will be able to significantly help cities and municipalities and we cannot measure ourselves with the Ministry of Industry, Construction, Energy, Ecology. It's certainly not the order the size of our funds. But what is our strength, and our advantage, is daily communication with cities and municipalities, units of local self-government, where we try to help communicate daily with other ministries, with other institutions and here are MPs who actually come regularly to the Ministry of State and local self-government trying to help their cities and municipalities. We at the ministry on Thursday from 14.00 hours, and sometimes we stay until 10:00 p.m. because it is being replaced by several cities, we try to see which projects we can help with and just a few days ago the call for funds from the budget fund where the funds are allocated and for some infrastructure projects, but also to finance the promotion of "e-government", the improvement of the work of the municipal administration, help with the promotion and introduction of e-parliaments, finance different manifestations, sports, cultural. What is a tradition at the bar and what is very interesting to me is that this budget is worth 460 million dinars. We received 225 applications in Serbia with a total sum of 2.5 billion dinars, which means that across the way more than we are able to allocate funds. What does that show? That cities and municipalities have more than ever had projects that they want us to finance, that cities and municipalities have woken up and really want to make the most of the funds in the republican budget. And what is also good we don't fully finance, I said there's not much money, but we often finance a part of money for which local self-government doesn't have enough money or we do something in collaboration with other ministries. There is also the Minister of Culture, Mrs Gojkovic, who will surely testify that there are a lot of projects where we finance together, especially when there are some cultural objects, some significant museums, some other cultural institutions, something that is truly treasured in cities and municipalities, which is some large amount of money, sum of money more correctly said, and indeed the Ministry of Culture is seriously working, I think, through the "Towns in Focus" programme, I am right to. So, it's very good that the cities and municipalities woke up, that they understood the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government as a parenting house, so if there's not enough money to help in cooperation with other ministries, institutions to actually realize it. I want to commend a lot of new mayors, especially the mayor's wife and the president of the municipalities. The woman has 15 who are first in the leading place in cities and municipalities, otherwise there are 20 women, but I also want to commend the male colleagues who are in that place for the first time, and it seems to me that having new energy, new power, which is the first time in that place can be a difficult environment for them, but this new energy they bring in, that commitment to really do something in their town, may be an initial enthusiasm, but in any case result, at least when projects by the Ministry of State and local self-government are at stake. So all kinds of praise especially for those young people who are first in the mayor's seat, and there are about 60 in Serbia, new mayors who have never been in that position before. So other than these funds, where we will soon send answers to cities and municipalities who passed this contest, we have a unique administrative place. It seems to me to be a favorite project of cities and municipalities when it comes to our Ministry. The opening of a single administration site is actually the formation of former service centers, so it's popularly called in units of local self-government, it grows into a unique administrative place where you can actually find all the information you used to wander through several services within the municipality now is located in one place, electronically united where various official records are, where you save money and time very quickly and get the information you need or finish some of your items that took a long time ago. Whether it's a subject or a topic of urbanism or something related to local tax administration or some data from the home service, or some child support, a maternal supplement or something from a martial disability, something like that. So now you solve in one place in a short time. There are 14 unique administrative places in Serbia, so far open. This is a project that has been working since 2018 and in this year we signed a contract with Paracino, Topol and Koserić, and the call is under way. And so, that's interesting, to visit cities and municipalities, that at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government they can find information about how to apply for a single administrative post. We have 40 million dinars, it's about six to seven cities or municipalities where we can open new, unique, administrative places. In addition to the unique administrative position, what was very positive for me, it was a unique administrative place the other day, I was able to meet with a young man for whom the administration in the town of Šapac decided to give him a permanent job contract. What's interesting? This young man, in fact, unfortunately, in his 19th year he became ill, otherwise an IT programmer, in his 19th year he began to lose sight and now in his 30th year he is completely blind, but this young man made such an application that now helps in the unique administrative place for citizens to finish their work faster. For me, it was extremely important that the city administration recognized that a young man, despite his disability, was so active, committed, energetic, and we should ask all the cities and municipalities that recognize such people, who may be prevented by some kind of disability, that they actually become completely equal citizens, as well as all of us who do not have some kind of disability, and I would say that this kind of energy that we then recognized in this young man in Sapac is something that I really said that day, and that's being transferred somewhere in the media, it really should ring for Serbia, this energy and commitment, that despite being prevented from being disabled, he did not give up further training, education and professional career. All praises to the town of Sapcu should certainly be an example for all of Serbia. I've made it very long, but I'll only make one more appeal in two sentences. So, in addition to applying for a call for a single administrative post, I would ask cities and municipalities in Serbia, because just preparing for this session, the issues of MPs, I have asked my co-workers for information on the "Address Register". It is something that is very interesting, which was launched by Mrs Ana Brnabic and is now isolated, in fact, from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but we continue to strongly support it, help, give logistics around the whole story. The "Address Register" is a project worth 2m euros. So, the Serbian government has singled out two million euros in order for us to name those streets that have not been named yet in Serbia, have no name and marked buildings and houses, objects that have no numbers, regular numbers. You'll agree that it's very difficult, and people know it well, when they call for ambulances, firemen, police, and eventually mailmen, how many people face problems that we don't have well-marked streets and home numbers. You will not believe, in Serbia, in the 21st century, we have 67,300 streets that are not marked and that is what the "Address Register" is for. It's a project, so it's been there for the past few years, but we still have 67,000 streets left to mark. I would invite 33 cities and municipalities, they know who they are, they haven't seriously devoted themselves to this issue and I ask these cities and municipalities to indeed, because on their proposal alone we can give consent as a ministry, actually send proposals for street names, and the Ministry of State and local self-government will give consent to those names. We do have a register, one of the names of those streets if citizens, or cities and municipalities, don't have any suggestions on how to name certain streets, villages. They can also contact us from this proposal, from this database of names that are otherwise used in Serbia, we can make a proposal. I think it is very important that all streets be marked, that all houses and objects have their regular numbers, home numbers and labels and what is important for citizens, when street names are changed and new street names are placed, citizens usually ask – well, that will now mean that I have to change my personal documents, I will have an extra cost, it is something that citizens always react badly to, which is normal. They need to know that in this exchange of IDs, especially ID cards, there's no cost. Therefore, the MUP, i.e. the state, will bear all the costs of replacing personal documents when changing the name of the street. So much right now. There are many things that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government does, but all praises for cities and municipalities, indeed, are extremely active, on Thursdays 60 cities and municipalities have already come to us, only for these three months. I certainly expect all 145 cities and municipalities to come and help. Especially now, I'm at consultations as we search these projects for what's been going through what the Ministry can finance. I just want one more thing, and here's the end. I apologize to everyone for too much time. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government helps organise vaccination across cities and municipalities, especially for the organisation of vaccine checkpoints. At this point, we in Serbia have about 319 points where vaccination is organised. All praises, a special greeting for medical staff, but also for those administrative staff and volunteers who help on the ground in all cities and municipalities, and here, some last figure, from 15.30 in Serbia, was vaccinated 866,563 people for the first time, 497,310 revaccinated in Serbia. Thank you. I'm sorry I took so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3436	Thank you. Natasha, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3437	I thank you, Mrs. Obradovic, for the very comprehensive answer. We have time, as counterpart Obradovic said, until 19.00 on the Rules of Procedure is led by Parliament President and Chairman. What I'm trying to tell you is, you don't need to be surprised that the question comes from our parliamentary group. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, supports the work of not only your ministry, but the work of the entire government. As a minority but very dedicated and constructive coalition partner, we have an interest in achieving together as best result as possible for citizens as soon as possible to deliver a better life and what they feel in their daily lives and functioning as an exceptional relief. This is the result of which citizens and have given us confidence and voted for us in the elections and we have taken responsibility to give them as soon as possible a better life, an improvement of living conditions, within as short a time as possible, and that is certainly our goal. It's a good thing you mentioned the address register, because if you hadn't, it would have been my supplemental question. If the prime minister, since you mentioned that it was isolated from your portfolio and jurisdiction, if the prime minister wants to supplement it, because I think it's a matter of exceptional importance, we've already heard the data that I'm not repeating how many houses there are no numbers at all, there's no street, it's not marked. I think the address register is also that little difference that will make a huge difference in the everyday quality of life of people in small environments across our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3438	Thank you. Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3439	Minister Obradovic really explained it well. That's right, we started it back in 2016. It was an extremely, extremely complex process, but it was one of those processes that we all together introduced somehow common sense and order in the state administration and in our country, because it was really embarrassing to have a country where over 50% of the population doesn't have an adequate address and it's kind of when you think about 2015. In 2016, it really was, I think, one of the best indicators of how much our predecessors, the former government, are today a very strong opposition as much as they cared about what was going on in the country, how people live, so OK, you say, if I can't really make you a job, bring in an investor, give support to a domestic investor, then I can at least arrange for every street to have its own name, but they didn't care that much. I remember, then in 2016, we cross-referenced data from the MUP and the Post Office of Serbia and the idea was actually that we start using electronics to send people information, data, driver's license, health book, etc. So we started working on it. And then we saw that we didn't actually have a home address, so we started doing an address register, although it's such a complex question that really all of us as a government and public enterprises are dealing with this issue. The issue was moved to the Department of Construction when we made the Law on the Address Register, which, with great support from the National Assembly in the previous assembly, received assistance, or voted the law, so that it is now in that portfolio. Nevertheless, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are working with local self-government and budgeted in fact to mark both the streets and all those home numbers. So let's get this over with. This week, we also had a meeting with a resolution minister, even with public enterprises, so that public enterprises would begin to download data from that address register. What is actually going to be a result at the end of all this, in addition to all the things you've talked about, which is one great relief for both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to say when they move not every single body within the Republic of Serbia and local self-government to inform, but to inform one organ, and we all share it among ourselves. Until now, even today, until we finish this job, citizens have to inform each individual that they have moved or the economy that they changed the address, because it will no longer be the case, so we continue to work in the interests of the citizens and really be all their services together. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3440	Thank you. Natasha, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3441	I thank you and indeed it is an extremely important question that, as I said, can make that little difference that will make a big difference when we talk about quality of life and save time, in the extreme line, given all that you have finally mentioned, that it will not have to be individual citizens to inform each body of the state that they have moved, but it will all be in some unique register, and that is extremely important. It is a good thing that although the issue is no longer in the portfolio of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, it is good and can serve as an example of good practice, inter-resorial co-operation, because in fact this synergy of the ministries makes the government's results even more visible and progress even faster. Therefore, all the praises and all the honors of the support provided by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. At the very end of the line, it's meant exclusively for the citizens that we're sitting here for and you're sitting where you're sitting. So it's really for every commendation. I would have an additional question, and I am glad that Minister Comic also showed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3442	Natasha, since you're a longtime MP, you know there's no further question.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3443	I know, I wanted to take a moment of thoughtlessness from the chairman... .
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3444	Well, use it another time. Thank you. It almost came through, but we're moving on. The next MP of Starcevic's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3445	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask Minister Selakovic the first question. Since the Honorable Minister is not here right now, I'm going to ask the Prime Minister a question. Yesterday, on the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, a report on Kosovo and a rapporteur for Kosovo was adopted, Mrs Viola von Kramon asked the EU Council to give a green light for the visa liberalisation of Kosovo citizens and urged EU countries that did not recognise the independence of our southern Serbian province. Given the views of the lady mentioned, I am sure that the visa liberalisation proposal did not come out of respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that the citizens of KIM are actually citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so she wanted to correct the EU's injustice, so that the second part of our citizens should give the same visa liberalisation as we do in these other parts of our country. It is obvious that an atmosphere of pressure is being created not only on the Republic of Serbia, but also on European institutions and EU members who have not recognised Kosovo. My question is going in the direction – will our diplomacy go into an offensive performance in all important and relevant European institutions and world institutions to explain that such irresponsible and bad moves, statements and decisions are not only a deviation from the declared status neutrality of the EU's negotiating process but are directly disrupting the negotiating process itself and, as I would say, disrupting both peace and stability of the region. That's the first question. I'd like to ask Mr. Lonchar another question. In the other day, it will end up a full year from the first case of covid 19 infection in Serbia. For the past year, we have seen a giant struggle between doctors, nurses, nonmedical staff, against monsters that have affected the whole world, not just Serbia. The state, but we all have to, and we do everything we can to somehow thank these heroes of today for the determination, the determination, the perseverance in that struggle. The other day in this high house, let's say Dragan Markovic Palma, president of Unity of Serbia, said he would organise the departure of 1,100 workers to Greece and that he obtained funds from donors. It is certainly a small matter of attention to people who are selflessly caring for the health of our citizens. However, these days, we can see in the media the announcement of individual members of the crisis staff who are talking about the need to tighten measures to combat the current epidemiological situation, due to an increase in the number of corona infected. These statements mention the closure of cafes, restaurants and catering facilities that respect the prescribed epidemiological measures to the greatest extent. On the other hand we can see, I'd say incomprehensible scenes on the Kopalnik, in Zlatibor, as well as secret crown parties at certain nightclubs. My question is – can the crisis staff bring about measures that will throw a little more precisely at the main sources of infection, measures that will be a little more concrete and a little less generalized and generally? Namely, catering facilities that respect all the prescribed epidemiological measures become, in some ways, victims of irresponsible behavior in those places that we all today recognize as the main sources of infection. I have the impression that if the crisis staff were to bring a little more precise measures to make the results in the fight even more successful and to make the citizens more satisfied.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3446	Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3447	Thank you. I will answer instead of Minister Selakovic, but also Minister Joksimovic can explain some more things about the functioning of the European Parliament, who it represents, how they defend their views, how much these views actually have to do with the status definition itself if we talk about AP KIM with the status neutrality of the EU, with the European Commission's policy. It really doesn't have to correspond with each other, so, as in the end and in our Parliament, each of the MPs can declare some views that are not the views of this government, as in the European Parliament, one of the MEPs can declare some views, represent some views, call for some things that the European Commission does not or cannot stand behind. So, Viola von Kramon is certainly one, I would say, a vivid character, indeed her objectivity is not unquestionable I would say, she is 100% unobstructed, a woman who seems to me far away from any diplomatic protocols, diplomatic behaviour and open women an enemy woman in the mood towards the Republic of Serbia. I can only say that I'm glad she's so openly hostile, because if it were any other way, maybe someone could question her objectivity. But for Viola von Kramon, it really is unquestionable. So, as such, her views, of course, of which she is entitled, are certainly not the EU's views and cannot be the European Commission's views. The European Commission, again, is to clarify and simplify for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the Adriatica will correct me if I am wrong, practically the EU government, as the EU government has to respect the views of EU member states. In this regard, since there are as many as five EU member states that do not recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence or so on. Kosovo Pristina or a group of people in Pristina who did not come out of the referendum, I would say as a minimum of democratic behaviour, democratic decency. Therefore, the European Commission must respect their views on this basis, the EU, the European Commission, is statusally absolutely neutral. Now, Viola von Kramon, who is a representative, if I am not mistaken, green in the European Parliament, represents the views, ultimately, of himself, of the green, perhaps of the country he comes from, but certainly not of the EU. But, you see, in what she asked for visa liberalisation for the citizens of KIM, I'd say we might have found ourselves in a unique position. We also support visa liberalisation. When she hears that, she may give up that visa liberalisation because she generally doesn't share any views with us, or even when they are good, fair, upright, in accordance with international law, norms, acts, truth. So maybe now he's giving up that visa liberalisation. We are advocating for visa liberalisation for all citizens of KIM. It is certainly in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, after all, they are also our citizens. We're calling for it, and we've been calling for it. I believe that this will not be easy to come by, if I can say so, and that because most Western European countries, or those EU member states of Western Europe, know that many citizens from the AP KIM territory, above all Albanian nationalities, would probably have rented that territory and moved to these other countries. So, unfortunately, I don't think that's going to happen quickly, but of course, in that, we're warmly supporting Mrs. von Kramon. As far as the negotiation process is concerned. Well, everything she does violates the negotiating process, and it seems to me enough to say about how much she, after all, as a rapporteur at the European Parliament for so-called. Kosovo respects the negotiating process and therefore respects the European Commission and the European Commission's moderation, i.e. if it does not respect it, I think it is a big concern for the negotiation process. I'm sorry about that. I think it is the most damaging to all the citizens of KIM because they have no agreement with Belgrade and at least a European perspective. So I don't think Viola von Kramon works in their interest, but it's between them and Mrs. von Kramon. We will fight for our interests, and our interests, among other things, regional stability and jobs and employment and structural integration, and everything not only to make the region safer, more stable and that we all live better together. I don't think we're allies here with Mrs. von Kramon. But, as it is, it is to us, as I said earlier, to push on and to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3448	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me just, before we go any further, to steal a few minutes of attention from this topic. Yesterday, and today, we mentioned several times the current political situation, as well as the reactions that were extremely emotional in the public on the one hand, and on the other hand, markedly propaganda against the film were about the film "Dara from Jasenovac". Given that we all talked about the collective memory of our people, which is the people of Jasenovac and the rest of the victims, being extremely shaken, but also needed to make at least one film after decades of this. Given that we mentioned this, as the National Assembly visited today was Predrag Gaga Antonijevic, who is the director and producer of the film, I asked him to be at the gallery at the moment. I'd like to ask you to say hello. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr Antonijevic, but I also want to thank the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia who participated in the implementation of this project. The attitude towards victims is not a political issue, it is a moral issue, and it is extremely immoral that the Serbian people have been treating their own victims for decades. [[Applause]] So I repeat again, thank you to all those who participated in this project on behalf of not only the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia but also the people of Serbia and the Serbian people in general. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Antonievich. I apologize for taking a few minutes off this subject, but I thought it was very important. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3449	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, the topic you broke up with is very important. It's really the best reminder of neglect and culture, unfortunately forgetting, which I hope this is going to break up in our country as well. It's a big deal. Indeed, far from apologizing for interrupting my answer on this subject. As far as the question is concerned, the prime minister has explained it quite well, and there is no need for me to be so concerned with the analysis of what the so-called rapporteur is. Kosovo from the European Parliament, but it is important to the political, of course, question and understand your question. You know, the European Parliament is one forum for the debate of various political parties, from liberals, the Greens, the European People's Party, even the extreme right, so there's a lot of things. You can really hear things, but the principle of work of the European Parliament is in the end somewhat similar to national parliaments, but in some things and quite different and any amendment adopted on a motion for a resolution, for example on Serbia or any other country in the process, must be the result of compromise amendments, meaning that some agreed text will be reached that everyone will accept. I have repeatedly been in talks with European MPs and with Serbia's rapporteur Bilchiko urged that very critical amendments be left in the original form, to see what exactly political groups in the European Parliament have such a particularly negative narrative, for example, about Serbia, and that others who allegedly say that they might not vote for such amendments, simply to see what their position would be and what these amendments would be. However, the practice of the European Parliament is a harmonisation, I understand it, and then really very often through these allegedly compromise amendments the formulations and the passages of texts that are really not what the official European Union in terms of the institution and the European Commission can stand behind it. But the European Parliament is a very important debate forum and it has a significant impact on the creation of public opinion and that is what, as is our Parliament, as is everyone here. However, what is important is to say, because every year when the motion for a resolution comes, and now to define, no resolution has been adopted in Serbia, but amendments have been adopted on the foreign political committee, and the resolution itself should be at the plenary session of the European Parliament on 24 March, so there will be plenty of time to analyse everything and to comment on everything. As for the so-called rapporteur. Kosovo Mrs. Von Kramon, she is a representative of the German Greens, therefore, of the Greens' parties, and who really shows continuity in a very critical intensities towards everything in Serbia, therefore, from what we have already become accustomed to the rule of law, but to really some sharper formulations that are not at all suited to the European Parliament, but ultimately may be appropriate. Because, you know, they express their political options, but that's not what the policy of the official European Commission has to be statusally neutral. It must be statusally neutral because five members of the European Union do not recognise an independent Kosovo. That's why so-called. An independent Kosovo could not sign the usual format of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, which is otherwise the highest range of their own at the moment of Eurointegration processes because the agreement would have to be ratified completely in all Member States' parliaments. Of course he wouldn't have been ratified in these five Member States. In this sense, it is important that citizens understand that sometimes things that come from the European Parliament are a reflection of different political visions, different political groups across Europe, across European countries, but they are not what is truly the official position that must be at this point in the European Commission. Here, I think European Commission spokesman Stano today said, as an official of the European Commission, that some of the pressures on recognition are being put in motion. Of course, we know what the views of individual influential Member States are and there is no doubt about it, but they must retain that kind of status neutrality and in that sense, I say, sometimes I think that, although it is good to give priority to the European Parliament first, as an important forum, in order to see all the policies in Europe exist and all the perceptions in Serbia exist. Always remember that once the amendments proposed by certain parliamentary groups are indeed very politically intrinsic, because they are political parties, as well as here Parliament, which represent some of their interests. On the other hand, getting along means sometimes going through something that I think is too critical, sometimes going through something that might be too positive for someone. In any case, there will be plenty of time to analyse the resolution when it is adopted in the plenary of parliament, which will be at the end of March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3450	Thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3451	Dear President, the honourable MP, it is true that a year has passed since the occurrence of the crown of the virus and the struggle of the whole world with the virus and of course everyone in Serbia, especially health workers. I once again use this opportunity to thank all health workers, all those who work in the health sector and who are nonmedical workers and all those who have helped to fight this pandemic in other ways and to get to where we are. Of course, it's not the end, we're not yet at the satisfactory level we'd like, but that's not what anyone in the world has achieved. So we can't predict how long it's going to take, we can only hope to vaccinate as soon as possible, as many people as possible, and then we can put this pandemic under control. I don't want to be long. Tomorrow morning's the crisis staff session. You're absolutely right, which is why we've been measuring this much for the last two three days, so that those who break and where the biggest problem is, we're going after them, and we're not punishing those people who adhere to the measure. You're absolutely right, these numbers we now have are the result of behavior and what happened both on the Kopalnik and on the Zlatibor, and in other centers, maybe some spas, or wherever. Those people came back, maybe the younger ones went better, but they were transporters, they infected others, those others ended up in the hospital, some of those who were worse. Plus, we've had these events where there were more people, where the measures were not respected, and now that's the price that's come toll. We'll do everything we can to regulate these things. What we have is the knowledge that all capacities are still filled on those mountains. It's obvious that people can't go abroad or elsewhere, they're focused on going here, the weather's on their hands. I'm sure tomorrow the crisis staff will bring such measures to prevent further expansion, that is, to go where exactly the epicenter is and where the virus's source is without touching those people who carry out all these measures. Surely the inspections and the tourism and ministry departments are healthy on the ground will be rigorous control. Once again, I appeal to all people if they want to, and if we thank the healthcare workers so much, that they only keep in mind when this number is increasing, we send those people we sent to the deserved vacation, who were in the red zone and working in the covid, we now have to return from vacation, because we are expanding our capacity in the red zone. We're opening up new intensive care, opening up new places, and all those people we thought we'd rest a little bit, possibly doing vaccinations, or something else, or in the nail system, we need to get those people back or some other people back into the convex system, to stop their vacations from being with their families. The greatest thanks to all those people involved in this fight would be to respect the measures. That's the only truth. What I demand for all those who do not respect the measures, and who work and organise these parties, and organise all of it, must know one thing directly affecting the health of Serbian citizens, directly, directly organise something that leads to the spread of the virus, spread of the infection, and directly brings people to hospitals and respirators and deaths. And then they're the loudest, and they're asking why this, why that. Let's just keep that in mind. I'm sure we'll sanction them all. We're really not gonna let that happen. We don't have any problem with anyone going skiing and staying in a hotel. Guys, we have a problem with you sitting on each other's cafes on each other's heads, breathing down each other's throats, being so close that you don't respect any measures. We have a problem when you throw parties here in Belgrade illegal with 700, 800, 1000 people, 150, 250 people. Who do you defy? What are you showing? That you're stronger than the state, what? That you're smarter than the state? That no one wants to have a good time, to go out and stuff, but only you are so smart. With that wisdom of yours, we have an increase in the number of patients and an increase in the number of people in the hospital. So, everything we do, to get the vaccines, to vaccinate as many people as possible, we compromise it, because we have one part of the people who relax after the first dose of the vaccine. Once again, after the first dose, there is no immunity that can protect you 100%. It has to happen that there's been a crisis and a sea and a few weeks from the relapsing, only then do you have maximum protection. Come on, once we stick to what's said. We have a chance, a chance not to take this chance to get things under control and be among the first to get out and put the crown under control, as far as possible but we can't put it because we have a situation in the environment and around that we have many infected and that there's no thing under control. That's what it's all about. Once again, if you want good health care professionals, if you are grateful to them, respect the measures they insist on and we will have no problem. We're almost there, let's be unique, let's work this out so we can go to sea and get organized and everything we couldn't do so far. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3452	Thank you. Ambassador Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3453	Dear Minister Loncar, I hope that tomorrow the Crisis Headquarters will make one wise decision that will take care of all aspects of both health and the lives of people, work and so on. As far as JS is concerned, the fight to preserve territorial integrity is one of the most important struggles that our country is fighting today, of course, with the rise of the economy and the preservation of human health. We know that no report has been adopted for Serbia, but we talked about a report adopted yesterday for Kosovo where some things that are unacceptable to the Republic of Serbia have been dragged through. I'd like to ask Minister Ruzic here a question. Our education system has been facing a major challenge over the past year, a challenge to the functioning of this very large system under the conditions of the pandemic. I think that system has shown he's tough. This system has shown that it is adaptive, flexible, and that with all our problems, our schools achieve those declared educational outcomes and goals without our schools being recognized as places of great risk of contagion. That's very important. What is currently a big job of the Ministry of Education, I suppose now is the time to do so, it is the preparation of an education system for the final exam, of course and the admission exams to the university, i.e. the enrollment of students in high school and colleges. My question to you is – at what stage is this process and what is the Ministry doing on these issues? I would briefly only for the Minister of Economy, Mrs Atanaskovic, as an experienced businessman, a long-standing, very successful businessman, I have a question for you. Holding a cable factory in Jagodina has been in the process for three years. UPPR and cable factory, you know that for decades it has been a momentum of development not only of Jagodina, Pomorja but of all Serbia, just like "The First Five-year-old". My question to you and to your ministry is – is your ministry following the situation regarding the current state of the cable factory and is there any possibility of helping to revitalise that factory? The cable factory still has great potential, has a good production program, has several hundred employees. The public in Jagodina is very interested because there are no residents of Jagodina whom someone either does not work or does not work in the cable factory. In this regard, we know that the liquidity factory is the biggest problem and whether it's working on one of the models. Is that some kind of investment fund? Is it some other kind of investment or partnership to get that factory back on the road she used to be on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3454	Thank you. Minister, or First Vice-President, Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3455	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for this very important question by MP of the Life of Starčević. I think the education system in both this year and the previous year showed a high degree, as you said adaptability but also resistance to Covid-19 transmission. All numbers and all numbers indicate that the education system is not where the virus is being transmitted. It is, above all, thanks to the responsibility and commitment, both teaching and extracurricular staff, but of course, to those end-users, which are our children, therefore, students who attend classes, some by traditional, some by combined model, but from the preschool institutions themselves, through the basic, so first cycle, second and course secondary schools and certainly higher education institutions. I'll remind the public that this is about one. 250,000 of our citizens, young citizens, someone's children, and that's the most sensitive question we're talking about. As far as this question is concerned, our goal is to end this school year in all segments and to successfully end it with the realization of all planned and planned activities. Here I think of the trial and final exam and the entrance exams for specialized departments of art schools and high schools, too, and the final exam at the end of the elementary school, that is, the so-called. Colloquially named, a small graduation and, of course, everything else that's related to enrolment in high school. The final exam will be held on 26 and 27 March. On the first day, there will be mathematics, the second day Serbian or the mother tongue. I think that the test exam and that the deadline that we set is quite enough for the children to prepare themselves, to get acquainted with the procedures and the method of laying down, and to do some fine adjustment after this trial, and prepare for the final exam, because certainly this test final exam will be as much more difficult as ever, simply distracting children and parents, rather than it will be the final exam itself. What is also important is that children are able and have really had enough time to approach, how to acquire knowledge, thanks to just teaching staff, but also to approach the self-confidential position of the trial final exam. What is most important for their continuing schooling is the final exam, which will take place on 23, 24 and 25 June. On the first day, children will take a test in Serbian or native language, the second day a math test, and on the last day they will solve questions from a combined test. We were here today at the Institute for Valuation of the Quality of Education and Education. Visiting the Institute which is infrastructureally, above all, as an institution equipped, yes, here, for the second year in a row prepares this final test and I can only express a high degree of satisfaction with the occasion, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry has helped also the Information Technologies Office to enable this Institute to access in one safe and quality way all procedures concerning this final test. I think it's very important. So, what has been unclear to date or some have been unclear, this final test or final exam will be held in a traditional way, hence Serbian or native language, mathematics and combined test. What's also very significant is what we heard here, and I think it's a great honor that we had here and producer Gaga Antonijevic. I think it is our obligation in the government, and I think the Prime Minister will agree that we will find a model and a way that since September, therefore, from the new school year 2021/2022, not as an imperative or a commitment, but of course, with all the consent of the parents, if nothing else for high schoolers, the broadcast of the film "Dara from Jasenovac", because I think it would be significant that precisely because of those who are talking these days about our curiculum not knowing such a thing, it does not foresee, and in any way it is not true, even some say that it is mentioned in one sentence, and it is not true, because we have eight or nine sides that treat, precisely, the question of what happened in Jasenovac. I think it would be a good idea to find a model that's based in norms, so that that's exactly how we educate our, let's say, high school youth, so that it doesn't go into the seal, and what I'd say is that we use the work of art just as a function of further education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3456	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3457	Thank you for your exhausting and thorough answers. The four questions I have raised, about, show four of the biggest challenges in which the state of Serbia is at this moment, which is the preservation of territorial integrity and sovereignty, and that our fair fight that we are fighting and which, of course, is under great temptation, but it is a struggle that we must continue to fight and for what we of Unique Serbia are very much in favour of. The other thing is, of course, the preservation of the nation's health and finding that optimal balance between the measures needed to be implemented to preserve the health of the population and those other things called normal life, economy, economy, and so on. The third thing that is very important is, of course, education, which was also under great challenges at the time of the birds and I think we've been successful this year and that education simply, it shouldn't have, let's say laysky, fall, for the simple reason that we would have damaged the whole generation then, and I think we've done that job well too. Of course, the fourth important thing is both economic and economic development. I think these are priorities for which, of course, the state and the United Serbia will receive maximum support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3458	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Daniel Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3459	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, I have prepared for today two groups of questions for the Prime Minister, namely the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. I would like, in my first address, to raise these questions so that we can have time and opportunity to adequately discuss both topics. The questions are connected and very important, especially for the citizens we represent from the SVM, here in the National Assembly. The first question concerns the quick track to Belgrade - Budapest, and the second one concerns the reconstruction, i.e. the modernisation of the Subotica-Segedin railway. We look forward to having such big and important projects here today, and I don't think I have to stress in particular how important this is in the comprehensive co-operation of the two countries, Hungary and Serbia, but also beyond. The fast track of Belgrade - Budapest, which will allow up to 200km per hour on certain shares, is of strategic importance in connecting the two countries, both economically and in any other respect. This railway consists of three shares in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The first is the Belgrade centre - Stara Pazova, the second is Stara Pazova - Novi Sad, and the third is Novi Sad - Subotica, i.e. the state border with the Republic of Hungary. As for the modernisation of the Subotica railway – Segedna, I would especially like to highlight the importance of this section for the duchy Hungarians. After 20 years of work, in the past term, we have managed to define this project, put it into our own frameworks, as well as the Coalition Agreement between the Serbian Progressive Party and the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, as well as to provide some of the funds in the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget. This share is of great importance to the citizens of our country's north, especially those who, for example, work in Segedin and the environment, and live in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the question for this section in the next address, and the question of the rapid Belgrade track – Budapest: are the papers in line with the dynamic plan; what are the deadlines for completion of the first and second shares, and when is the start of the work on the third section between Novi Sad and Subotica planned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3460	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3461	Dear Mr. Giovanni, thank you very much for asking and for putting it from another angle, which is not much to talk about. We've been used to really talking a lot lately about shares from Belgrade to Novi Sad. This stock is not something long awaited, because up to 10 years ago I sign that no one in this country could have imagined that in Serbia we would have the most modern railway and state-of-the-art trains in Eastern Europe. Today it is no longer a project that prepares for realization, it is a project that ends. It's a project that's in the final phase. Last week, a tender was launched for the purchase of train compositions that could go 200 kilometers an hour. I'd just straighten you out a little bit, he'll be on our whole share from Belgrade to Saturday, when both of those shares are finished, or let's say three shares, as you said more correctly, and he'll be able to go 200 kilometers an hour. That's how we design, that's how we do it, and that's how we do it. When you have such complex works, technologically demanding, something that has never been done before in this country, let's be aware, investment in railways is much more complex than investment in roads. But these are completely different investments and, of course, there were a lot of problems. At one point, it was even necessary, indeed, that the President of the Republic be involved with his authority, because we also work here with our Chinese partners and Russian partners, excellent companies, which hold excellent dynamics, but what we set not only on this project, but anywhere else, these are deadlines that go ahead of contractual deadlines. We simply as, let's say, the political system, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are aware that we no longer have time to lose. We've been wasting our time for decades. First, of course, in objective circumstances due to wars and sanctions, and then later, when we all expected changes, we came to the conclusion that in many aspects time may have been harder than in the most difficult time, in the 1990s. Be assured, I will repeat this for who knows which time, the president has made it clear, has given us precise tasks that the stock, i.e. two shares from Belgrade to Novi Sad, will be completed by the end of this year. It will surely be fulfilled. In parallel with this, we have begun to do preparatory work on the section from Novi Sad to Subotica, because, as you said, it is essentially one corridor connecting Belgrade and Budapest. These are strategic directions for us, such as in the south down the strategic direction that we go to the Adriatic Sea or to build a set of railway infrastructures down to Presevo, that just since you enter the railways up on Horgos, down to Presevo you have a completely modernized track in which 80% of the shares will be driven or able to drive 200 kilometers per hour, because you can't drive 200 kilometers per hour if you have near the station. I'm trying to explain plasticly to people to understand, I don't want to burden myself with too much information. Belgrade – Novi Sad will be completed from next year, Novi Sad – Saturday we will be leaving for summer and very soon we will have full dynamics and we will go, be confident, and before the deadline. The third share that you, too... In fact, I wouldn't call the stock, but it's a parallel arm, because, I'm going to be talking about Belgrade -- Budapest as a whole of Corridors, so we can open up works with our Hungarian partners, because it's no secret that Hungary is our main partner in the EU, a stable foundation and we, of course, of course in the Balkans, together enters such a big, complex investment, so that we can open up their works that go from Budapest to Segedin, we have to open up an alternative to them that goes from Segedin to Subotica, so that they can block those works. Of course, you are mostly aware, but the citizens should also be that the railway is a large carrier in terms of cargo traffic and simply no one can afford to keep the rails blocked for so long, or shut down. Our direction, we've already gone far in that sense. In August, it was declared a project of special importance. A task force has been formed. We are very quick to enter into negotiations on the choice of a strategic partner. The Republic of Serbia's budget allocated 60m euros for investments this year, which is more than enough. What's important is that you and all the citizens know that our last deadline is for the completion of this stock, so I'm talking about Subotica towards Segedin, which passes through our country, whose total value is 110m euros, the summer of 2022, so that we can open up to our partners, that the works work are at full capacity. That's what I could tell you about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3462	Thank you. The word has an MP, Giovanni. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3463	Dear Minister, I thank you for your answers. It is clear that this is a huge and comprehensive project, and I am sure that new challenges appear every day, but I am also sure that we will be able to overcome them by common forces and end this project. Let's get back to this Subotic-Segedin section. I've already prepared a few questions here that I've already received the answer to, so I'd skip those questions. I would just like to repeat how important it is for our citizens in the north of the country for a trip to work and for the railway to be completed as soon as possible and that this railway will contribute greatly to reducing the emigration of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because now many of them will be able to work in Hungary, but that they return daily to their houses and their family in Serbia, while not waiting and not wasting valuable time in miles of lines in columns at the border. The use will, of course, have an entire region. The reconstruction and modernisation of the railway is carried with it and the reconstruction and modernisation of the entire infrastructure, if I know correctly, around the railways, including railway stations, which will in any case contribute to the economic progress of the region along the entire section. Let me look back briefly on the public procurement that was published on February 8th. It concerns the purchase of three new four-part vehicles for speeds of 200km per hour. Will the Chinese company be able to produce trains in accordance with EU standards, or will we be forced to look for other, perhaps more expensive suppliers, or will we have to call a new public procurement or delay the purchase at all? I thank you, I have received answers on this route of Subotica – Segedin, I would only add a question at the end: when we can expect the realization of the second part of this project, the modernisation of the railway Subotica – Baja, which will connect Segedin with Baja, but through Subotica and bring numerous advantages to Subotica, but also to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3464	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3465	Thank you for one more question. I'd like to, like, bend over, if that's the answer. I'm not sure. You rule matter completely, and you know what you're talking about. As you know, we have a colleague at the Ministry of State Secretary Emesa Lalić, who is a really stable partner, an excellent engineer with great experience and she is directly involved in all these projects, and as a minister, it is much easier for me to have such partners in my portfolio to carry out such demanding projects. We talked about this stock as an alternative to Belgrade – Budapest, but we are absolutely aware that it is not just an alternative. Subotica and Segedin are very important two cities, so this railroad that we are now investing in is not just an alternative. Its task is also to connect Saturday and Segedin more and more closely, and we are absolutely aware of it and we think very carefully about it. Generally, when we think about it and that, I think, is somehow the outline of our policy, which is what the President of the Republic is personifying, let's say, which is at the head of this political system, which is really our political leader. I remain, I think, the answer to the previous question, is it Horgos, Subotica, whether it is Novi Pazar, Tutin, we invest everywhere equally, we want to integrate everything. We want the entire Republic to have much more quality infrastructure. I may have visited the works of the New Market Tutin last week or ten days ago. We have indeed made great progress in infrastructure that hasn't been built for decades. So we really think very carefully about investments in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and in this spirit we will create an extremely high-quality rail that will connect Subotica and Segedin. As for the purchase of trains, we have called a public tender which is completely transparent, completely clear and what is the basic feature, not only about trains, not just about the railways, not just about roads, not just about anything where the Republic of Serbia invests, it is that we want the last European standards. We want our citizens to provide the highest quality infrastructure, the last technology at an optimal price. If the Chinese can provide it, excellently, if the Austrians, the Spanish, the Russians, the Americans, we want the best for our citizens, we want the cheapest, the most rational. We are not a proud administration, we are an administration that is carefully leading, but we do not want our citizens to consume more, not even in this segment, something that has been overcome for decades. That is why we have decided and clearly defined that the Belgrade-Budapest railway, that is, now Belgrade-Novi Sad, tomorrow Novi Sad-Subotica, will be the best in Eastern Europe. That's what the citizens of Western Europe currently have, that's what Serbia's citizens will have very soon. Once again, thank you for your attention and soon all the projects will be completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3466	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Giovanni. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3467	Dear Minister, thank you for your clear and constructive answers. Despite the global economic crisis caused by this pandemic, the Serbian economy is firmly on its feet and we look forward to the fact that investments in infrastructure are not interrupted, and we are particularly pleased that the project and reconstruction of the Subotica-Segedin railway was announced in June last year as a project of special importance and as you said, a working group was formed and I am sure that this government will provide all the conditions for the start of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3468	Thank you. Let's move on. Before we move on to the next MP, just to remind you that we have agreed that shortly after this session, that is, part of the session of asking questions, there will be a day or time to vote. So, I remind everyone that it's a coincidence who wouldn't step away. Ambassador Hadji Milorad Stosic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3469	I have a parliamentary question for the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Milan Krkobic, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Government with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, after the election of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia and the formation of the Ministry of Village Care, the theme of the village is significantly presented in Serbia's media and certainly approximated to our citizens throughout Serbia. After your answers and explanations to my questions asked at last session of the Serbian Parliament, questions to the government, I received a large number of calls, e-mails, and had a lot of direct personal contacts with support to continue the activities undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are no MPs in this assembly, no individual in Serbia, who does not want or shares the opinion of your and the Academy Committee on the Village of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, normally, and the President of the Republic of Serbia, that this is probably the last moment to take serious steps to improve the position of the village in the Republic of Serbia and improve the situation of the Serbian population. In these talks, I also felt optimism among the village's inhabitants that the Republic of Serbia will, through the activities started, really do everything that is realistic and possible to improve the position of the village and the population of the village. But I have noticed, on the other hand, serious concerns about their involvement in the decision-making of their local self-government in the part of taking care of the village. Therefore, I ask you, has the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Local Self-Government, taken some of your ministry's activities, or defined models that would allow for a better position for the villages of Serbia? Also, what experiences of EU countries can we benefit from, and in particular, what are the experiences of the former Yugoslav republics in relation to rural areas, rural areas and specific areas, such as our mountain-mounted and border areas? For example, Serbia has 170 cities and municipalities. On the other hand, Croatia has 128 cities and 428 municipalities, Slovenia, also much smaller than Serbia, has 211 cities and municipalities. Would the new territorial organisation, or should I say, reorganisation, be in line with these standards of European countries? Also, are there any ideas to pass some new laws that would be better treated by certain regions or parts of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3470	Thank you, since it's been three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3471	Excuse me, Mr. President, you still have to be realistic. If you let someone ask questions of three minutes, five minutes, deny me, I don't think it's correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3472	No, I didn't deny it. I'm just saying you're finishing up, since you have two more calls.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3473	I'd like to compare it here again...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3474	I mean, you all have to get used to how long it takes. In other parliaments, it works by simply shutting down the microphone, but I didn't do it to anyone. So respect the Rules of Procedure, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3475	I would look again at some of the laws that Croatia passed, primarily the island law, the law on specific areas, where we also need to pass some laws that would sort of regulate this regional level in a better way. I ask you, would the territorial organisation of Serbia possibly go that way? For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3476	Thank you. Minister Milan Krkobic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3477	Mr Dacicu, Mrs Brnabic, honourable MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Stosic, that time you received is a sign that the village voice is still heard. Don't expect to have any time now. The time of the village is just coming, Mr. Stosic. You're a young man. You have a future ahead of you. But let's be more serious. At the beginning of this session, we heard an honourable MP, and he defined one, for me, a serious issue of raspberries and debt that people have toward raspberries. I didn't want to answer, I waited, but I think that is exactly the key question for that rural part of Serbia. People produced raspberries, they gave them up, they sold them, but they came to what was most difficult – how do they charge for it? We heard they're asking for someone to urinate. He wants to urinate one minister, another minister. But I think we all need to define system solutions together in this room and in this country. It's not worth it to urinate this one or that one. We need to know in advance the rules of the game. If we're in a hurry, there's nothing to do with that job. That's my answer to him. It's this commercial relationship, the bonding relationship, but what's interesting is he says -- these people, gentlemen Members of Parliament, here, I have this left in my memory, he says, they don't have any money for lawyers. So someone needs that slow to finance, to pay. It is also the answer to this question of yours – what do we do to reconcile, reconcile that urban part and the rural part? Where is this European partnership these two parts? And where is this partnership defined in certain legal frameworks? Where is the Lisbon Charter in December of last year? These are the things that are ahead of us. Madam Prime Minister said and sent him a good message, she said – join in. What are the basic problems? Small possession, low yield and inability to become a serious commodity producer. The answer is team up and our answer is that. The message is for these people to form cooperatives specialized, to connect them together in several forms, complex cooperatives and to try to place their product on the market. I'm convinced that we can do it, not that I'm convinced, but there's no other way ahead of us. Five hundred and seven thousand households in Serbia with six acres of land, I repeat six, down south, that's even less, about three hectares, not allowing those people to live decently. That's the problem we're facing. The causes are clear and it's up to us to remove them. If we go in line, it's the first education of these people, secondly, it's association and thirdly, I'd say crucially, it's adequate financial support. The state must, I repeat, the state of Serbia must be "moving" in that part, if we want to, that is also subsidies, and that is what I said here last time and hinted at in a conversation with Minister Nedimovic and I will not give up on it. It's something called a guarantee fund for a series of essential, strategic products. There's raspberries among them. What does that mean? We want to know in advance the prices for these key products and if the market says – yes, the price is lower, we say – the state of Serbia will make up for that amount. So that's something that's crucial to the survival of individual agricultural producers. We said financials. Do we today, dear friends, Agrobank, a agricultural bank or any other bank that is willing to provide a service to a farmer? I'm afraid we don't. Here's one piece of information, it'll be interesting for Mrs. President and for the finance minister, we have the data in nine months. I expect that last year's net profits from business banks in Serbia will be close to half a billion euros. In the most difficult crisis we have, business banks that are mostly foreign banks will include half a billion euros. Come on, gentlemen of the Central Bank, come on, gentlemen of the Government, let's let's from Parliament define that part of that enormous profit is directed in an adequate way and into an agrarian. These are some of the key things that will affect us getting rid of these key causes that we've been talking about here. At the same time, a brief answer to your question, yes, a new territorial organization. Not that we would have more municipalities, not that Mrs. Obradovic would have more contacts, that's not the point. Not that we have more officials, we have electronic administration, but that people can directly negotiate in their midst, plan, decide, have their budgets. Of course, someone will say that mostly in these municipalities these budgets are very small. Then Serbia's state will now be able to help the municipalities with adequate transfers. At the same time, you mentioned a set of regional laws that I advocate, we'll go with some suggestions. We must single out some specific areas in the Republic of Serbia and treat them in a personal way, in principle something which is also called positive discrimination in the economy. Let's see that VAT in those areas is lower. Let's free people from some taxes and contributions. Let's free them from taxis and commissions, create a favourable climate so that people who want to invest have opportunities, a way to invest. These are key things that would come from this new model of Serbia's territorial organisation. I stand up for him. We hinted at the Prime Minister's idea. I expect the Ministry of Local Self-Government to take active part. At the end of the line, it's part of them, but these ideas that we bring out go in the direction to reconcile the rural and urban parts. It's the only way to keep our villages, smaller places today, and tomorrow even bigger, we don't leave the town empty. Remember, now statistics are more or less, 40.5% of Serbian residents live in the rural area. They're waiting for it, and this is the first step, that legislative step, and then these economic measures follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3478	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3479	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for these answers, and you are already in the response section of the second question I would like to ask, and I would like to take the opportunity to ask you for operational, practical steps for direct assistance to individuals who are living and working in the country right now. You were talking about the need for a merger. When we talk about this, then we have to note that in the previous period, according to the project "500 cooperatives in 500 villages", a large number of new cooperatives were formed and that, as far as I have some data, 804 cooperatives. All of them had the opportunity to design a competition and receive certain funds for their work. According to information I have, 152 cooperatives have received funds, 80 new cooperatives, 68 old and four complex cooperatives, and the government, through which the cabinet of Minister Krkobibic, has singled out and distributed these cooperatives, are not even small. It's about a billion and 700 million dinars somewhere. According to my knowledge, new cooperatives are being established this year unlike the previous period where there was a focus on agricultural cooperatives, and now we already have ideas for the establishment of new social cooperatives, trade cooperatives. We have an announcement of the formation of tourist cooperatives, especially in these times of the pandemic and these diseases could come to a full extent. For this reason, I would ask you – is there a competition for cooperative support aid this year, as a very important element in Serbia? Also, you stated that the Ministry of Agriculture will operationally assist local self-government in the adaptation and reconstruction of certain rural homes, and we know that in the previous period every village or village had such space. Through this renovation these facilities could become multi-functional, could be some elements for both health care and socialization, and postal services, etc. Dear Minister, can you tell us – what support models in the Ministry were you still planning as direct operational assistance to village residents?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3480	Thank you. The word has Minister Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3481	This is perfect when you get a chance from the President of the Assembly to do nothing. Thank you, Mr. President. The answer, Mr. Stosic, is heading towards helping the development of 800 new cooperatives over the past three years. That's an impressive number. At the same time, we helped 152 cooperatives with 1.7 billion funds. That's what it represents, I'd say, the start of serious economic activity for tens of thousands of cooperatives and cooperatives. I would point out the example of a cooperative in Slankamen fruit plant with no less than 500 acres under the net, with a drop-by- drop irrigation, with all that is necessary, with a 3,000-ton freezer with a sorter. There are these 152 examples, but they serve as an illustration. We went with the programme and a programme was adopted by the Serbian government. We will soon issue a public call in the coming period and expect that in the following year between 50 and 60 cooperatives we will be financially helpful in an adequate manner. What kind of cooperatives are these? It's vegetable, it's fruit trees, it's beekeeping, it's livestock, with 15 million dinars for old cooperatives and 7.5 million dinars for new cooperatives. One warning that is necessary, you gave him a hint. We want to help this cycle and some agricultural cooperatives dealing with rural tourism. At the same time, we want to help those involved in some social activities. First of all, those who form women, who are determined to deal with cooperatives. We've got dozens of them in this country. So they're very successful, very good, but that doesn't mean that the rest of them, so to speak, the conditioned vulnerable groups that are hard to find on the labour market won't be covered. The competition will soon be worth 500 million dinars. At the same time, I'm suggesting the possibility you were talking about. We'll go with the ransom program of now abandoned rural houses, but of course the houses that own their own and that we can buy them out. Such houses, according to some data, have 150,000 in Serbia. We will try to buy them out in co-operation with local self-government with certain well-established areas and give them up to young farmers. Let's just say there's no confusion in knowing what this is about. Often today, three generations live under one roof in villages. People know that well. We want those youngest to have the opportunity to stand alone while using the machinery and everything they have in their home. Another group of people to whom this is intended are, let's say, young experts, people at the National Employment Service. They're agronomists, vets, just people whose knowledge is necessary to get this whole business started. So, without modern knowledge, without modern technology and without these people, that's not worth it. So we're going to go after them, too. We plan to group these houses in a smart way, not to have them scattered across Serbia, but in such a way as to achieve these specific goals that we have outlined, to improve the age structure, the population, somewhere to speed up this economic development, but also somewhere to enable this transfer of new technologies and new knowledge. That's two things, but so people in the country can get full expression. They'll tell you, it's the usual thing. Yes, we have safe and regular income, if we have it, I repeat, we said in what way. We've got infrastructure, which we've heard about before, we've got regional roads. It's up to us now to do local roads, especially Atari roads. So they'll tell you if we have drinking water, and we don't have many villages, if we have voltage, if we have everything that a modern man wants to have, then he wants to have the right content of social standards and health care and education and certain cultural contents. I can announce, this will be interesting for the citizens of Serbia that in a certain number of villages we will restore, adapt a certain number of cultural homes, as a multi-functional facility where we will provide them with this very content. At the same time, we will try to in the next period and speed up what is called cultural, historical heritage, to protect it, to present it in an adequate way. One more thing, honourable Members of Parliament, when we adopted the budget for this year, we know exactly how much and where we set the funds. The funds that we have for the development of the village are both small and large. Baby, when you list all the needs we have, but on the other hand, and big if it's known that for years, nothing has ever been invested. This is the beginning of work, this is a hard work and we expect, it is useful to hear all these things, and it is useful for every MP to have awareness of it, especially if it comes from rural areas, in the next debate on rebalancing or on the new budget to be more generous, to be prepared to present these requirements. It's not worth being smart, it's not worth regretting. We simply have as many resources as we have, we try to spend them as usefully as possible. What's main is that you as MPs have full insight into all this, to follow what we do, how we do, and how we spend that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3482	Thank you. Ambassador Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3483	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for giving us these very precise answers and thus allowing our fellow countrymen to have timely and real information, and it concerns precisely some of the programs that the government is adopting these days on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture. The very fact that these projects improve the status and material position of people in the country certainly gives us a new strength that, what you say, to reconcile the village and the city, that in some way, although they are not surely in conflict, but to bring near if nothing else at least conditions in the country so that we can enable young people to stay on their property and possibly, when you talk about buying these households, or houses, that eventually some people who want to return to the country, simply have that initial real situation so that they can at least settle. I call on our hosts to take advantage of all the benefits of the state, and I think that not only the Ministry of Agriculture but also other ministries in certain projects can contribute to a better status material position, that our hosts, and especially young people, with the help of their local self-government and ministries create some better conditions. I'd just like to point out and call on everyone who's interested that there is one model in the rooms and in front of the KIM office you should see. Fortunately, I had the chance to make sure in practice that this model wasn't just a product of someone's imagination, but something like that is happening now and on KIM. Ten days ago, I visited the municipalities of Mitrovica North, I visited Gracanica and the municipality of Zvecan. In Zvecan, this model makes a modern village called "Sun Valley" and it is almost 90% already finished and how much information I have received, that this village through the competition will assign those houses and apartments to displaced persons and that it will have the opportunity to give official keys to Vidovdan on June 28th. It's now some information that I have, but it might simply be one of the models that in Serbia is thinking about such planned villages that can accept people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3484	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3485	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I will try to be relatively brief and allow the largest parliamentary group to ask a question, and therefore I am only asking you to extend this first part, because I will not answer for the second and third time, so that colleagues will have the opportunity...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3486	Get to the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3487	I'll get right to it. First, as Valjevac, I want to thank you for one responsible and serious relationship with the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to investment investments in Valjevo. I am the president of the political option that is in Valje's opposition, but I can never be an opposition to the city and the citizens, and I really thank you for that. I would like to thank Mr. Momirović, Minister Momirović for visiting one very important stock in Lajkovec, because this share is not only important for Valjevo, it is important for all of Western Serbia, for bringing investments, and I hope that you will effectively bring this project to an end and implement it. The first question is why I ask you -- when it comes to housing for security forces, how many states have allocated funds, how many apartments are being built, and what is the deadline for completion of works, and how are the dynamics of works going? The second question – The Law on compensation for the use of public goods has arranged which fees are the revenue of the Republic, and which are the local budget, as well as the distribution of revenue from compensation between the Republic and the locals in the event that income is common. The same law defines fees for water in Article 74. Article 98 of the Law defines the revenue generated from the water compensation as belonging to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the revenue generated in the AP territory belongs to the AP budget. However, there is a huge depreciation of infrastructure that often needs to be removed from the budget by local self-government units. As an example, I refer to the municipality of Mininica. The question is: is the amendment of Article 98 of the Law being considered in order to solve this problem, which is not only the problem of the municipality of Mininica? Before amending the law, additional analyses should be made to assess the costs of local self-government units related to water exploitation. The next question is for the Minister of Education. Our students and students achieve extraordinary results in national and international competitions, so in this sense I would ask – how does the Strategy predict the achievement of a general level of quality of all educational institutions and increase the concern of talent? Given the rapid development of technology, we are witnessing that certain occupations are disappearing, and new ones are emerging. How does the Education Strategy monitor the rapid process of change without losing identity, because there are also scientific and educational areas of permanent character? The last question – what are the priorities of the development of undeveloped municipalities as an approach to solving them? I'm asking the Ministers for a brief answer. Just one dyspression. Here, I haven't used three minutes. Only one crackdown since Minister Krkobibic has made one finding. Mr. Krkobic, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not give you the opportunity to work or not, and orders are given to you by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is running and giving us orders, as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. I'm not gonna answer it the second and third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3488	Thank you. The word has Minister Tomislav Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3489	Dear Mr. Milicevic, thank you very much for this question. My ministry really covers a very large number of projects, but if I could choose which project, or which project I am most involved in, and in which I give not more than a maximum, but more than a maximum, it would certainly be a project that the President of the Republic started, which refers to apartments for members of the Security Service. I don't think anyone could have believed that when this project started a few years ago, it would have reached this situation and it would have been so successful. In total, it's separate, which you asked me directly, for him about 210 million, that's exactly 210m euros. The construction of apartments in a large number of cities is scheduled. Some have more success in realisation, some less. I would only point out that if 1,000 apartments are currently being built in Belgrade, two more plots are being developed for 2,200 apartments. In Novi Sad, in April, we assign 500 apartments to our owners, 200 more apartments in Kragujevac in Kragujevac also in April. We have some problems in Nis, in Sremska Mitrovica too. We're trying to get all the projects done maximum. Keep in mind that we're building about 7,000 apartments. It's just one part of my ministry. Believe me, we're really trying to solve problems that are objective, when you have such a big problem, to solve. Really be assured that as someone who has spent his entire life in this country, who has been here at the most difficult time in this country, who is deeply aware, who has defended this country in the 1990s and has been very underpaid, someone who has been there with his heart for this country, I feel a deep commitment, personal, and as a member of the party, and as a member of the government, and not just you, Mr. Milicevic, but all of you people, that I will really try to make this project that was launched by the president, and whose ambition is that in the coming years no member of the Security Service has an unresolved housing issue. We are aware that we do not live in a state like Luxembourg that can count, or as Portugal, which last conflict had many centuries ago. We know that we are constantly politically threatened, we really want to correct some, conditionalally said injustice and that for all members of the security service, there is no member who has no outstanding housing issue. That leads us, and I'm sure we'll make it. I really thank you again for this answer. I want to be concise, I could talk for a long time, any investment that follows this project will be completed. Of course, with great support from the cabinet of the Prime Minister, who is also committed to doing so, a project that has great current efficiency and will be even more offensive in the perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3490	Thank you, Minister. Since George isn't answering for the second, third time, we're moving on to... (Djordje Milicevic: Other ministers I asked a question to. Wait a minute, are you ministers reporting for an answer? Here you go, Rose. I didn't see you pick up. I warn you to make sure that we have to finish, and there is another national message. Be gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3491	Thank you, Mr. President, I understand your charm and desire to meet with the MP, but I think that what MP Milicevic has set up, of course, I will not go to any broader establishment, but it is also very important for the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a strategy of education and education until 2030. So, one 10-year period in which we process all very important sectoral topics, from pre-school, primary, secondary, higher education, dual education, digitisation. Also, what reference institutions do to improve education and education and evaluate the quality of education and education. I think if there's nothing else, I won't really waste my time, because we don't have time for such a thing, but we have time from tomorrow because tomorrow is the first round table to function as a public debate on this strategy. The next is March 2nd and the last is March 8th, so all the academic and other public who is practically interested in this strategy is welcome to present their constructive criticisms and to see what it is that can advance such an important strategic document that will be our orientation for many action plans and for everything else that we will do in the next ten years. Thank you, and I apologize to you if I've taken the time of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3492	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Novica Tontchev. I appeal to your gentlemanhood from Surdulica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3493	Dear President, the Honorable Prime Minister, fellow ministers, MPs, priority of all of us here in the government, starts both from the President of the State and from us ministers, as well as from you MPs who pass the laws, is a better and better life for all of our citizens, especially citizens who live in underdeveloped municipalities. Our goal as a whole of the government and my ministry is to keep young people living and working in their midst to live and work. The government's success will be to prevent the emigration of young people from less developed municipalities to a wealthier region. To do so, we must provide them with at least about the same conditions as young people who live and work in the richer environments of our country. If I don't, it's our job, that's what we're gonna do. My cabinet has visited 38 of the 44 underdeveloped municipalities, we are not going to sit in Belgrade to be in office, we are going to visit every municipality and talk, not only with the presidents of municipalities, but also with citizens who are their problems, and then we are here as the Serbian Government to solve them. I was short. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3494	Thank you. National MP Nevena Gjurici. Please feel free, no matter what's left, six, seven minutes, since we started a little later, you can speak freely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3495	I would like to take this opportunity to ask the question of the Deputy Prime Minister, Culture Minister and Information Minister Maja Gojkovic, the occasion, to be able to say freely the false affairs that echoed the previous days in the media and which is placed by those media that are not meant to know the truth, but that in all ways your results are suppressed and your work results, the results of the President of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic. The Natural History Museum in Belgrade was targeted this time. When it comes to this subject we have simply two contradictory things, on the one hand we have these pompous titles with no essence, practically, and on the other hand we have a draft law on museum activity and a public debate which took place in the previous days when it comes to the creation of the law, it clearly tells us that the Natural Museum in Belgrade is a republican institution of culture, and that this status is at this moment and that tomorrow when the draft law passes all the legal procedure and comes to the Assembly, that this draft law provides for the Natural Museum in Belgrade to be a republican institution of culture. In some headlines, it has practically appeared that the Natural History Museum in Belgrade is being shut down in the year of the jubilee, that it is losing its status as a republican institution of culture, and that has been better welcomed by individual opposition media, and that has made it faster. They went so far in their ignorance and information that they evened a culture facility with individual buildings, or buildings of any kind. Yesterday, you officially came to the meeting with a statement, but I think it is very important that because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia we hear once again from the first hand what is practically true, when it comes to this topic, because we also witnessed this morning that it did not stop writing and spinning, when it comes to this subject. The second question concerns the premiere broadcast of the film "Dara from Jasenovac", which, once again, is recorded with great support and the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who had both the will and the courage to decide on such a move, as we did not talk about all the people who gave their lives for our country, and practically, after all the events in which they suffered Serbia remembered in silence. We didn't talk to Alexander Vukic about Jasenovac, or Storm, or Flash, or Pastric, or Kosharam, or NATO bombing. These are topics that were not discussed until Alexander Vukic arrived. Today, with our pride and our heads up, we are talking about all those dates and events that are related to the suffering and suffering of the Serbian people. For this reason it's only one and how difficult the film is, but no matter how difficult it is he has one strong message, it's that at no time must we forget our victims, we must not be silent about our victims, we respect others' victims, we treat them with piety, but we don't speak of our victims at any time. This is one important step towards our film industry, and let's remind ourselves in 2015, now the president, and then the prime minister introduced great incentives when it comes to the film industry, so my second question is about what we can expect in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3496	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3497	Thank you so much for asking a question from the culture domain, because it often happens to us that culture is only talked about when someone invents a scandal, and it's not really about it. I don't really know who it went to to make up the whole story about ending the Natural History Museum. I guess that's what those who commented yesterday on some false announcement about the abolition of the Natural History Museum as a republican institution of culture wanted. Their tendency to continue what they were doing, to shut down the National Museum for 15 years and shut down and never open it again until SNS and Aleksandar Vukic, the Museum of Contemporary Art, came to power. So I guess they wanted to use social networks to recommend that we don't leave what they've been doing, shut down the persevering museums. Of course, that is not true, and it was easy to check that someone wanted to do so, because the public debate on the Law of Museum Activity had just ended. There are now reading remarks that will certainly be those that are good, included in that text. And if someone wanted to deal with the status of the Natural History Museum for 125 years at all, but there was no building and they didn't think about it until yesterday, obviously, those who ruled this country from 2000 to 2012, could see that the status was unchanged. They could also analyse the budget of the Republic of Serbia and see the funds defined for the work of the Natural History Museum, but also for the launch of competitions to find an idea solution for the building of the Natural Museum, which was located by decision of the city of Belgrade in 2019 or 2020 in the part of New Belgrade where it is intended that we simply have its quarter of culture in the city of Belgrade, where it would be in the circle of Belgrade Philharmonic and the buildings of the Natural Museum that is undoubtedly needed, always interesting children for education, but also for many tourists, because it happens everywhere in the world. What's my problem? My problem is if you want to change something, if you want to do something, of course you always have enemies. Enemies who are unemployed, who easily gather only when they have to shout – and protest and not support those who want to change and do something. Of course, there is much to be done in culture, it is indeed one demanding job and I thank the President of the State, the Prime Minister and all of their colleagues who have shown in this mandate how much understanding they have for this need for culture to regain its important status in our country. I'm saying that the museum is really worth it because of the people who work there. There are 125 years, but they'll get the building, of course I'll talk to the Prime Minister who's always got an understanding for such projects. Those who write and insult culture ministers and our entire government, yesterday, in great care of the future of the Natural Museum, remembered that we should all be insulted that we are, I don't know, pigs, to build pigs in Belgrade and things like that. I didn't want to answer them just for reasons of courtesy. Here in the hall are the decent people, the decent MPs representing the citizens of Serbia, and we should not respond to such a proscality that we yesterday as a concern for the status of the Natural Museum had to watch. I'm glad that the director of this museum gave a statement yesterday to which he denied everything, apologized to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister, but apologized to all those people, cultural institutions and in the country and in the world and to the natural museums who, for the false news they had spread themselves, sent out to the government all of a sudden telegrams and e-mails of support, not knowing in fact that it was one false news and that it would certainly show to whom and why the Natural Museum should have been used for some kind of political purposes. Just to tell them, in those social media statuses, they show that they don't even know that the Natural History Museum doesn't have its own building, and that there's a little gallery in Calemegdan where they somehow manage to display their position, because yesterday they wrote that we're going to Calemegdan to tear down the Natural History Museum. So much for them, but thank you indeed to those who are going on the campaign, who are working at the museum, who have gained strength and made a statement saying that neither in the Museum's Labour Act, whose work they have also participated in, there is no such purpose, and that they have also succumbed to someone's good and skillfully directed false news. As for the movie "Dar from Jasenovac", I thank director Gaga Antonijevic for being here with us today. I'm sorry that she wasn't also the woman who wrote the script of Natasa Drakulić who, I must say here, is not a known fact, a child who had to leave the Republic of Croatia in those war events, who came here, who is grateful that Serbia has given her everything. She recently received a medal for writing a script for this film by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and did not deserve to be attacked these days in any way and when she wrote the script and how. Those who attacked her yesterday again showed elementary ignorance, the instructions are the sentences that are generally known, which each of us can repeat, the words of the man who said when the Ustashas slaughtered him, struck him with a mallet and killed him: “Let him, child, just do your job. ” It was not written by Lordan Zafranović or Natasa Drakulić, it's something we all know. This film is important because it talks about Dara from Jasenovac. All of us here are members of one nation a little Dar from Jasenovac, because for decades we have been forced to keep quiet, to hide the truth from ourselves, that one of us has the privilege of hearing something in the house, but we have never learned in schools about what happened to the Serbian people in the past until almost yesterday and today in Kosovo and Metohija. We are truly grateful that we have the president of the country who decided, made a decision that it is his priority to develop a memory culture, because that people who are trying to forget what happened to him in the past - will not have a future. And that's the size. And when they attack the directors, when they attack the script, when they attack the actors who were brilliant, they actually attack the victims of Jasenovec. And I'm going to say, everything that's been shown – it's a little bit, because when I look at it, I just cry out that all the victims in Jasenovac are talking about, and I'm sorry about what the whole film team has been going through and that they were the victims of a political campaign against a film that was just talking about the truth and the nudity that we've been going through. My grandfather was killed in Jasenovac, too. So, we will continue, we will continue, of course, and I will try to make an agreement with the Ministry of Education, because education and culture cannot go separately, and so we as two ministers and as the whole government will try to keep this culture of memories that we started, that by building monuments, by making films about the works of our history, by writing textbooks about history in which nothing will be hidden, because nowhere in any country in the world there are hidden parts of history, and especially not the suffering of a nation, that we are again proud as a people and that the image of us is not a false image that they have tried to pass through the world for years, and that we are a people of criminals. No, I don't. We are the people of the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-25-0.u3498	Thank you. Since MP Milicevic and MP Djuric gave up their second and third calls, I thank them. We have exhausted the list of applicants, so since it has already been 19.00 hours, we are finishing our work in the session session on parliamentary issues. I thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and all members of the government for their participation. Since I am told that I have made a lapus, I want to apologize, I have not noticed, I want to apologize again and again to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Anna Brnabic, and all the members of the government for being here and for always having a full presence of almost all the members of the government at such an important session, i.e. that this topic is won by the very importance that they are all present here. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, February 25th, 2021, starting at 19.13pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As you know, before we move to decision-making, we need to determine the quorum. As you know, quorum exists in voting day if most of the total number of MPs are present. I ask Members to insert identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I ask these who write these preparations to adjust their language a little bit, so that everyone can understand you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 184 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the origin of property and the special tax, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, for -186, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence, especially the justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, for – 186, was not voted by one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We now approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the designation of origin of property and special tax, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, for - 185, it didn't vote two. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the origin of property and the special tax. Dot number two. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KFW Frankfurt in May under the responsibility of the Electric Network of Serbia, Belgrade (Region programme for energy efficiency in the transmission system II) as a whole. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, for -186, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly adopted, by majority, the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KFW Frankfurt in May under the responsibility of the Electric Network of Serbia, Belgrade (Regionn programme for energy efficiency in the transmission system II). Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 3 to 6 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of the National Assembly decides on laws governing public borrowing and conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Third item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between KFW, Frankfurt in Majna and the Republic of Serbia, which is the finance minister for the project "Energy in buildings of public purpose and renewable energy sources in the district heating sector – greening of the public sector", in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, for -186, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Fourth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Educational, Cultural and Sports Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of Mexico, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 187, for -186, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The fifth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the status agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on actions implemented by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 186, for -186. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The sixth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 186, for -186. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The seventh item of the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the annual report on the Commission's work on competition protection for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy on 3 February 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 186, for - 183, was not voted by three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for a conclusion by majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Session, and I would like to inform you that a regular session begins next week. I have scheduled a session for Tuesday, March 2nd, with two agenda points: the draft law on confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and Serbia for a project loan – the infrastructure in culture and the proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial post. I thank you all for your participation. (The session is over 19.25 hours. )
