ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-1.u10217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I called this special session to the National Assembly to be addressed by the President of the Representatives' House of the Republic of Cyprus, Her Excellency Anita Dimitria. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, Her Excellency Mrs Anita Dimitri, president of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the Republic of Cyprus delegation and the representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia who attend today's special session. I just want to point out once again that we are visiting the president of the country's parliament, which is Serbia's biggest friend in Europe. I want to thank you, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia and all our citizens, for the support and brotherly love, or sisterly love, anyway, which they have provided us all these years and we return. I now call upon Her Excellency Mrs Anita Dimitri, President of the Representative's House of the Republic of Cyprus, to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-1.u10218	Your Excellency, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected members of the Serbian government, honored ladies and respected gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I feel an extraordinary joy and honor to be in Belgrade and to be politely invited by friends of Mr Dacic, the president of the Serbian Parliament, and that I am able to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I give you warm greetings, love and deep respect for the members of the Cypriot House of Representatives and the entire Cypriot people. Mr. President, my official visit highlights our common will and commitment to further strengthen and expand the exceptional relations that exist between our parliaments for many years, for the sake of the mutual interest of our countries and peoples, brotherly relations that go back to the past, in the time of Yugoslavia and the Unclassified Movement. The relationship based on our strong, historical, cultural and religious ties, which are further strengthened by our common commitment, the principles of democracy, justice and peace, the relations of solidarity and mutual support in important issues for each of our two countries, as well as the relations of the strategic definition, which aim to highlight and strengthen the significant role our countries play, the efforts to provide conditions of peace, security and stability in key strategic areas of the Balkans and the Mediterranean. As a member state of the European Union, the Republic of Cyprus supports and will continue to support Serbia's European perspective. We welcome the progress your country has made in the context of its accession negotiations and look forward to continuing the process, opening and closing new chapters, as noted in the October 2021 report from the European Commission on progress. The pre-accession period is, however, a long and painful process, but I am convinced that by intensifying the pace of reform, combined with what your proud people and the leadership of the Republic of Serbia have achieved, your country will become a member of the European family. For Cyprus, Serbia's accession to the European Union is a precondition for strengthening stability in the Balkans, which is inextricably linked to security and stability in Europe and we support this position within the Union institutions. On that road, you will always have an honest, selfless and persistent ambassador, who sincerely believes that Serbia's future can only be a European and, of course, a credible partner after accession. I would like to assure you of the readiness of the House of Representatives, as you already know, to provide Serbia with the expertise it has gained on the issues of harmonisation with European fluids, in the context of the Memorandum of Understanding, Mr President, which was signed between our two Parliaments in 2018. Dear Mr. President, I am taking the opportunity here to confirm with my presence the position of the government and the firm support of the Republic of Cyprus with full respect for the sovereign rights and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. The historic debt and a clear view of the Republic of Cyprus is that it does not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. It is the legal basis for resolving this issue, remains the UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 on Kosovo's status. In the absence of a mutually acceptable solution on the status issue, Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence remains completely illegal. More than 47 years after the military invasion and the continuing Turkish occupation of the territory of the Republic of Cyprus, the Cypriot people struggle to reunite the country, free from occupation troops and return refugees to their ancestors' homes. I am tirelessly repeating in every direction that our goal has been and remained to achieve a fair and lasting solution to the Cyprus problem on the basis of international rights of the UN Security Council and European principles. Resolutions of the bi-zonal Federation with two communities, with no anachronistic guarantees of occupation troops and addiction relations. A solution that will make Cyprus a modern, sustainable and functional state whose citizens will determine their present and future in conditions of security, stability and coherent co-existence as well as our European identity. Our efforts, however, are contrary to Turkey's impertinence and expansion, whose provocation is growing dangerously not only to the damage of Cyprus and Greece but also to the wider region. Turkey's side openly requires a solution from the two countries in Cyprus by violating the UN Security Council's proper resolution and an agreed UN framework to resolve the Cyprus problem. We will never listen to such unacceptable views as are explicitly rejected by both the UN, the EU and the entire international community. Turkey is creating a new status quo on both land and sea. A continuing violation by Turkey of Turkey's exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Cyprus by the order of Turkish President of the closed area of Famagusta for commercial exploitation, violation of Security Council Resolution 550 and 780 and the announcement by Mr Erdogan of further militarisation of occupied territories are part of Turkey's expansionist policy to the detriment of the entire Cypriot people and Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots. In the fight to find a solution to the Cyprus problem, we are not alone on our side with full and uninterrupted support and assistance from Serbia to which we are very grateful, it would be a failure not to express our deepest gratitude and recognition to Cyprus for the valuable contribution of the Serbian people through the participation of the Serb squad in the peace forces in Cyprus, as well as our gratitude for the support of the inalienable law of the Republic of Cyprus to exercise its sovereign rights within the exclusive economic zone. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected members, dear friends and brothers, I most sincerely thank you for your kind invitation, for your warm welcome and warm hospitality, as well as for the great honor to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. I express my heart to the Republic of Serbia and to the Serbian brotherly people the desire to achieve its noble goals, social progress and prosperity. I convey the warm greetings of the Cypriot people to our Serbian brothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-02-1.u10219	I thank you once again, Her Excellency, Mrs Anita Dimitri, the president of the Republic of Cyprus's House of Representatives for his address. Live forever brotherhood and friendship between Cyprus and Serbia. I am concluding the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I'm hanging in there.
