ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4137	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. Please specify the exact number of Members present in the room to insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that at this time, 149 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? National MP Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4138	Thank you. On March 1st of this year, kidnapping and kidnapping of one of the public officials, head of high school, took place in Sjenica. Unfortunately, we did not have an adequately prepared answer from the authorities to fully answer this question, so I am using this opportunity to ask both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education, but also Mr. Turkovic, who was kidnapped by organised criminal associations and harassed for his political stance. Of the four people who kidnapped, kidnapped, harassed Mr. Turkovic, only one was brought in and only one was prosecuted, while three others were never prosecuted, even though they are persons who have serious criminal activities, which are prohibited from entering EU countries, who have files and years of prison behind them, who cannot even enter the countries of the region. Unfortunately, this case shows that we still have parts of the crime involved in police associations, but also in the authorities of the prosecution and the judiciary. Why aren't all four faces processed? Why is only one person covered, as a citizen? Why is it not protected by Mr. Turkovic, who is the head of the Sjenica High School, and we know that after these previous elections, Sjenica has become the place of accounting for criminals who have lost the leverage of the authorities and who are in every way trying to provide torture with any influence in the local government? Unfortunately, this inadequate response, given that we are already approaching that a month has passed since this abduction, which the state authorities have not given and have not properly prosecuted all the participants in this crime, in this crime and encourages all those who think that crime, force, torture, harassment, kidnapping can govern the lives of citizens. The state must urgently take whatever is necessary to cut this in the bud and must process all four persons who kidnapped the director of the Technical School of Sjenica on March 1st, harass and execute the torture, beat him and asked him to simply act politically for their interests. The interior ministry had to and must carry out all four persons and must undertake an investigation that will be comprehensive. The prosecutor in charge of this case has only accused one of the perpetrators of simply pretending to be blind, as if he had a net through his eyes, that there were three other persons involved in the same crime, and those with serious criminal record, with serious crimes behind him, with several-year-olds, persons wanted by the EU and countries in the region. In the end, the Ministry of Education must do more to protect those he has appointed as holders of responsible functions, especially since it is a school, especially since it is a educational institution, because if it can be done with those who are responsible for the education and education of our future generations, what should be expected of the student of those schools or how should the parents of those children feel? There is still no adequate protection provided to Mr. Turkovic, who is the subject of this kidnapping, still has very serious problems and therefore it is necessary for the state to provide protection to this person, and for all those involved in this crime to adequately implement and punish it to be the most powerful message that all those who have participated in various criminal acts so far in the denominations of the authorities realize that this is the state in which crime and criminals must be prosecuted, must be arrested, processed, and that those who are honest, honest, honest fighting should bear all those functions that are responsible and, for example, especially because they are the ones who need to be a role model for future generations.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4139	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4140	Dear friends, the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia announces every year a bid for the granting of loans to all parts of our country, and these are very favourable loans. It is about the funds paid for 10 years, with a grace period of one year and with a minimum interest of 1.5-2.5% and this depends on whether the company from that municipality is in which the municipality is developed. Of course, on the other hand, and from the type of credit, or whoever is looking for it, is it a development loan, whether it is intended for young people, pregnant women, or women, and in these conditions, it has better characteristics. The Serbian Development Agency is also through the Ministry of Business and the Business Development Fund also defines loans, very good, very favourable, which even subsidises from 25-45% and depends on the level of development for underdeveloped municipalities, for example. Tutin municipality, which belongs to the devastated municipalities in the Republic of Serbia and is the fifth category of development, 45% are completely free, i.e. the grants that the state donates or gives to these companies. Of course, requirements can be submitted by an entrepreneur, a micro-enterprise for these loans to the fund or local or regional development agencies, for example. In our area, there is a regional SEDA development agency that includes three municipalities, Sjenica, Tutin, Novi Pazar and through it apply for these loans. She monitors, administratively helps, on the other hand monitors the use of these funds. However, with one study done by our development agency in Sandzak SEDA, about 90% of people who are interested in this loan for the reason of being followed by interest, because you know that interest is strictly forbidden to Muslims, and that is something that Islam strictly prohibits, interest, interest, interest, greenery, exploitation in such a way. It means that, we support here, to say, the moral economy, and practically, it makes it impossible to make money based only on interest, but on the other hand, it's allowed to take a loan, to invest, to make a profit. Of course, to share the risk with those who invest, the lender and those who take, in such conditions very correctly, is possible and can one Muslim take the loan. Therefore, I would like to make a suggestion to the Ministry of Economy and the Development Fund that the interest provided for in these programmes is to write down, that is to say, that it is reduced by the amount to be subsidized. It's very simple, it's a solution that exists, for example. in BiH, simply deduct interest from the part that the state gives free of charge and enable people in this region, which is over 1,000 small entrepreneurs, very successful, to do business with this money that the state defines for these programmes. It's a big moral problem for people who believe to get into something that they're not allowed to do. That's the problem with trusting people and me, and I think that this solution that he proposes, that he has the Ministry of Economy, we can enable people of Islamic religion, who are successful entrepreneurs, to consume this money and thus help themselves and this country, because it's about extremely successful micro-enterprises. Let's share the risk. I guarantee you the Sandzaklies will surely make a profit for themselves and for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4141	Thank you. Vice-President of the Assembly and People's Parliament, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4142	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear People's MPs, my question today is to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. On November 3, 2010, the King hit a terrible earthquake. How strong the record is that this is one of the strongest earthquakes that has hit our country since the end of the 19th century since the seismic activity in these areas was measured. You, Mr. President, were able to see for yourself the magnitude of the earthquake since you were among the first of that night, as then Minister of the Interior, came to the King and offered all necessary assistance. The consequences were enormous. Two people suffered, about 200 people got minor physical injuries, about 16,000 houses were damaged, 8,500 apartments, 33 schools, and I want to commend then Minister of Education, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who managed to rebuild all schools by the next school year and to get the students back to safe and restored schools. A few hundred businesses were then damaged. The result of the earthquake was directly felt by about 80,000 Royals. In the last ten years, damaged households have been restored, a new infrastructure has been built, but 16 residential buildings and five ground-floor houses with 360 apartments located on Dosite Street in Kralje have not been adequately renovated. There was a planned urban regeneration of the settlement, which was built between 1947 and 1955. The project planned instead of rehabilitating the collapse of existing buildings and the construction of four new buildings with 366 apartments. The civil permit for construction was issued in 2016, the first building with 103 residential units and the works started in 2018. The first building was completed, and that's where the problems arise. The Development Bank of the Council of Europe was supposed to provide a 300,000-euro grant for expert supervision, but, as it were, the town of Kraljevo provided supervision by our public enterprises. The city carried out the construction of external infrastructure and everything needed, but the problem is that works on the construction of heating installations are done according to the project and the temperature on the upper floors does not exceed 17 degrees. In order not to create a problem even when building three other buildings, it takes assistance from the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure in the form of independent expertise to determine where the lack of an existing project is so that we do not get into a situation to build three more buildings and to raise the problem as at the first building, or the problem of heating on the upper floors. My particular question is, can you speed up making reports and solving the problems that have arisen, because the entire families are waiting for a move in, exactly 106 families. When I'm talking about building three other buildings that are waiting to be built, then I'm talking about 260 other families that, once again I want to point out, live in buildings that were built in 1947 with a common bathroom upstairs, not human conditions. So I urge the ministry to identify the problem as soon as possible, remove and allow our citizens to live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4143	Thank you, Maria. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4144	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I would like to refer the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, one of the most significant foreign-political issues in the last 20 years for Serbia is the EU accession process. The accession negotiations opened on 21 January 2014. The negotiating chapters totaled 35. To date, 18 chapters have been opened, two of which are temporarily closed. Despite all our efforts to meet all the obligations arising from the EU's demands to which we have committed, the reactions of some European officials have often been lagging behind or unsuitable or unencouraged, I would say with certainty. The last in a series of such statements was yesterday's statement by Mr Bilčik, who, I understand, has an online debate with the European movement in Serbia, when he said besides the others, that Serbia, in its own words, should move towards EU membership, should move on to tangible works. I honestly do not understand the tangible actions of thought, but it is clear that Serbia's commitment and determination are in the way of European integration. That determination and determination was also confirmed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, discussing the European Commission's report right here in the plural. I would remind you that it was Serbia who always agreed to concessions and agreements throughout the process. I would particularly highlight the inter-party dialogue in which we were prepared, as we are now, to sit down with all political parties, I repeat, with all political parties, including opposition parties, we hear demands and through serious political dialogue we come to, among other things, compromise and fair solutions and to accept proposals, if any suggestions and suggestions are available, because election conditions, that is very well known to you, have not been changed since 2008. The dialogue was boycotted by one part of the opposition, not by the political representatives of the ruling parties, and is then attributed as a failure to us who led the dialogue, not by those who boycotted it. When we talk about Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue, there have also been various concessions on our part, despite all the pressures and blockades that come from the Pristina side, and ultimately European officials have remained silent. Neither has this progress moved forward today, as no dialogue involves blackmail, but a compromise. These days, the topic on the principles of the new EU accession methodology has also been restarted, which means that, apart from the European Commission, all EU members will be involved in monitoring accession candidates and include speeding up Serbia's accession negotiations with the EU, which should be achieved through the opening of several chapters covered by six clusters, as defined. Before I ask the question, I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia's great commitment to the European path and all the efforts made by Serbia to become a full member of the EU as soon as possible. Here and Parliament, as I said, plays a significant role in harmonising the relevant legal frameworks. I honestly think that we have done much more than what other candidates are asked to do, convinced that for Serbia, membership in the EU is important because of the overall progress of our society. The question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia would be – how did Serbia accept the new EU methodology for candidacy and candidates, what is the government's view of how this new methodology can be reflected in the dynamics of our European pathway, i.e. the dynamics of opening new chapters? Also, I'd like to ask another, current question these days. The European Union, which is based on four basic freedoms, which are freedom of movement of persons, services, capital and goods, if we call for these freedoms, as it is possible for the EU to establish and condition its Member States as well as third countries with regard to vaccination, is talking about the issue of certain digital green certificates that would represent proof of the vaccination of citizens, saying that some checkpoints will be designated for third countries where they will be able to attach certificates of vaccination from their countries. Given that there is no detail of which vaccine producers are concerned, the question arises whether our citizens who have been vaccinated with vaccines by different producers, but also those who have not been vaccinated or cannot be vaccinated for various reasons, will they be able to enter one of the EU Member States? At the very end, I would take the opportunity to invite our citizens to be vaccinated for the protection of their health, but also for the health of their families. The state has shown a serious and responsible relationship, Serbia is the only state that has all four vaccines in Europe and it is important that Serbian citizens also show a high degree of personal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4145	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Mirkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4146	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I don't think five minutes is enough for this subject and all the questions I want to ask, but I will try to be brief and summed up. In recent days, investigative journalism has brought evidence that we have all talked about days and weeks ago, and it concerns the enormous wealth owned by Dragan Gilas and his accounts in tax havens like Mauritius. Research journalism has proved to us that in only two accounts, one in Mauritius and the other in Switzerland, that man has more than six million euros. What we've been talking about for days and weeks has been uneasyly trying to deny, but it turns out that everything we've been saying is true. What attracts particular attention is the fact that Dragan Gilas has come to this wealth, and everyone knows that his co-operation with Dragan Šolak has been established in several jobs. According to his recognition, Gilas sold the Darekt Media in 2014 to a certain Bulgarian businessman, Kresimir Gergov. Before the sale itself, Dragan Solak directly lent this Bulgarian businessman 17.7m euros. So, the exact same number that the "Darrekt Media" was bought for. However, in 2015, Georgiev's ownership is completely free of charge to Askanius, which later turns out to be behind it by Dragan Gilas. So here you can see that it's a fictitious sale and that already not all the stores here are clean and that there are elements of any abuse and violation of the law. However, since the job is not finished here and the money should remain in that triangle of Solak-Bulgarian businessman-Gilas, 2018 Solak with its United Group of Dragan Gilas and its "Ascanius" buys the "Darekt Media" and since then, more than 52m euros have appeared in the Askanius balances. This amount of money also appears on the accounts found in Mauritius, so the question arises whether the competent institutions will finally respond now and all this has come to the attention of journalists who are already examining investigative journalism and at least for a moment for all citizens in Serbia to try to answer the question of how it came from gum dealers, window launderers and a failed Czech entrepreneur with 75 000 euros, how much did he have at the beginning of his political career, after eight years of wealth of just 25m euros in real estate? What is particularly interesting is the fact that journalists continue to explore the flow of money, to examine other allegations and evidence they have, which they have come up with, and that the picture now shows that these are not the only destinations and that these are not the only accounts owned by Dragan Gilas, but that there are more than 15. While we've been listening for weeks, months, and even years to some lies at the expense of President Alexander Vukic's family, while we've been listening to lies that directly referred to him, his brother, while they've been unwittingly trying to criminalize this family, not giving any evidence, now that concrete evidence has come out, we can't hear any arguments to justify or try to disprove these claims. How is it to try when this is all true and how to try when all citizens in Serbia know that you couldn't as mayor, director of the government's office or I don't know what kind of adviser in the government Boris Tadic to get so enormously rich, because your salary was just a thousand euros? While President Aleksandar Vukic offers a polygraph, he suggests that they choose their own questions to be asked on the polygraph, Dragan Gilas is still running away from answering these questions today. To the very end, I just want to refer these issues to both the Serbian Government and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and all the competent institutions and the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Money Laundering Prevention Authority, will they now take steps on this issue, will some investigations be launched? These questions and this information are not just me on my own behalf and on behalf of the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", but these questions and this information I am looking for on behalf of all citizens of Serbia. It is time for these claims to be answered, because Serbian citizens have the right to know and deserve to know where their money ended, because when Serbia collapsed and citizens were out of work, Dragan Gilas and everyone around him were rich and boasted. It's time for this to end, for once we finally get answers to these questions, and for these things to never happen again. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4147	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending Borisav Kovacevic and Aco Petrovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacant seat, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the parliamentary seat. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Predrag Milosevic, elected from the electoral list "Alexander Vukic – To our children". On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Predrag Milosevic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask that he prepare himself to take an oath. Dear People's MP, please, under Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Let me once again congratulate you, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, on your choice and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE CLIMATIC CHANGES LAW. Let me remind you once again that today after this debate is over, it will be a day for the vote, so in the afternoon part of the session you plan to hold a vote. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Irena Vujović, Minister of Environment Protection, somehow I should say "minister", but after I do not know whether they will be angry or not, I would not be wrong, Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Sanja Eminovski, head of the cabinet of Minister, Sara Pavkov, special adviser in the cabinet of Minister, Dragana Radulović and Sandra Lazic, head of department at the Ministry and Nevena Dragojlović and Alexei Stepanov, advisers at the Ministry of Environmental Protection. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Dubravka Filipovski, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stomirović, Arpad Fremond, Jasmina Karanac, Branimir Jovanovic, Gojko Palalić, Tijana Davidovac, Marko Parezanovic, Milija Miletić, Bratimir Vasiljevic, Petar Vesović, Marija Jevdić, Boris Bursaić, Bosiljka Srdić, Dr. Vesna Ivković, Sanja Jeffić Branković, Natasa Jovanovic, Bojan Torbica, Milan Urosevic, Samir Ćosović, Nevena Veinović, Vladimir Grahovac, Tomislav Janković and Vesna Krisanov. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 2 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs: Dubravka Filipovski, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stomirović, Arpad Fremond, Jasmina Karanac, Branimir Jovanovic, Gojko Palalić, Tijana Davidovac, Marko Parezanovic, Milja Miletić, Bratimir Vasiljevic, Petar Vesović, Marija Jevdić, Boris Bursaić, Bosiljka Srdić, Dr. Vesna Ivković, Sanja Jeffić Branković, Natasa Jovanovic, Bojan Torbica, Milan Urosevic, Samir Ćosović, Nevena Veinović, Vladimir Grahovac, Tomislav Janković and Vesna Krisanov. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants? The word is Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4148	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, this amendment concerns Article 2. Proposal for a climate change law applicable to greenhouse gases. If we know that one of the pillars of this law is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. the measures and activities that contribute to this reduction, then it is logical that the law prescribes what gases they are. The proposal for a law as gases contributing to global warming includes carbon dioxide, methane, azot-subdioxide, fluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, sulphur hexafluorides. This may not be interesting to the general public, but chemists and experts know exactly what it is. With this amendment, we have proposed adding nitrogen trifluoride to the list of gases that contribute to global warming. This gas is used in the production of LCD screens, semiconductors, as well as in some types of lasers. Scientists have come to know that the amount of this gas in the atmosphere is increasing by as much as 11%. The environmental agency measured the level of that gas and included it in the methodology for producing inventory emissions for more than five years, so we felt that there was an oversight when the draftr of the law on the list of gases with the effect of the glass garden left out nitrogen trifluoride. Since Serbia has made a promise at an online conference on climate change in the United Nations that it is ready to improve its results in reducing emissions of harmful gases by 2030 even three times with the help of the European Union and up to five times, this contribution is also a contribution to the goal. So it's a good thing that the government has accepted this amendment, which is surrounded by a list of gases with harmful emissions, and this significant part of the law is corrected and completed. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4149	Thank you. Let's move on. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4150	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, whenever we talk about a draft law, both in principle and in the debate in particular, should take particular care of what the law will bring to the citizens of Serbia and what positive effects this law will produce. We are also in the principle debate of both you and Mrs Vujovic, as well as our authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Mrs Beloica, heard all of the most important elements of why this law should be supported and which are benefits specifically that the state and citizens will have when we adopt this law. Today, when we are discussing amendments to this bill, which are submitted by a group of MPs who do not all belong to the same parliamentary group, they come from different parliamentary groups and to say different political options and different parties, we are thus giving a responsible line to this discussion, but thus underlining a clear difference between the state-run policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, whose policy we are trying to follow the ordinary politics that is at work by the opposition led by Dragan Dilas. The truth is, that part of the opposition isn't here. That part of the opposition led by Dragan Gilas is not represented in parliament, primarily because of his foolish decision to hide behind the boycott of the elections, but it does not prevent them from campaigning strongly and dirty campaign against Alexander Vukic, but also against anyone who dares to publicly support Alexander Vukic. That's why they've been on the wallpaper for the last few days and colleagues Aleksandar Martinović and counterpart Sandra Bozic and colleagues Vladimir Orlic and Marko Atlagic and Bakarec and all the others who dared to publicly support Alexander Vukic's policy. In that campaign, obviously, ladies and gentlemen are allowed all means. Lies are allowed, false accusations are allowed, crowds are allowed, let me say, fiction, and even meaningless fiction is no longer, if you have noticed an important topic. So it's no longer an important topic, all that matters is how to bring this issue into the context of day policy and attack Alexander Vukic. The media that we have long known to be under the open control of tycoon centres, read, Dragan Gilas and Šolak, but also many so-called. NGOs and I won't mention what organizations they are. You all know very well what kind of organizations, whose role, whose punitive role, performance, but also funding, are the means of funding from which they receive money, how much money, has been shown in a maestro yesterday at the session, our head of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic. Although you're wondering, why are they so aggressive lately, so this campaign against Wolfie and everyone else, this campaign is slowly turning into hysteria? The answer is, because the Wolf touched the subject that obviously hurts them the most, and that's money. Money, ladies and gentlemen, money. So, Vukic dared to touch, let me say, the nest, and these are accounts abroad, accounts in Switzerland, Mauricios. He hit them downtown and hit them where it hurts the most. It's amazing how long they're ready to go in their lies. So, after all the evidence we've seen in the last few days, after all the papers we've seen, after all the documents published by Dragan Gilas dead, the cold comes out and says no, no, I don't have any bills on Mauritius or anywhere else. I can't help but wonder, then, Madam Minister, what's next? What's next? I expect he'll deny his name now, Dragan Gillas. I expect he will deny being mayor of Belgrade. The truth works, by the way, as Belgrade's worst mayor, in Belgrade's history, but I expect it will also deny it. I expect him to deny and be a minister in the government, so I expect him to deny and be the head of that office, the national office or whatever it was called, while Boris Tadic was president of the Republic. It was a fictional function, a fictional job only for Dragan Gilas. He can deny everything, but Serbian citizens know well, the real truth and wealth, and accounts, and accounts abroad and about real estate, and about millions, about everything. What's very important is that this investigation, i.e. that this Mauritius affair is going to an end because it is an ideal opportunity for all suspicious jobs, all suspicious, all cloudy financial transactions and all the crime that we have been able to see in recent days and that citizens finally get key answers to key questions, which is how Dragan Gilas got so rich, how in a relatively short time did he get hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros? What is most important, whether he abused the state functions he was on, which he performed at the time when they were all in power, so he and his other buddies, and Boris Tadic, and Borko Stefanovic, and Marinika Tepic, and Dusan Petrovic and all of them together, Jeremic as if I said the pests and the destroyers of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4151	By amendment, MP Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4152	The President-in-Office, respected Madam Minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow Members, MPs and MPs, I will talk about these amendments, and they are indeed valuable help in improving this law. I've carefully read all three of them, and they're really great, and they're also the ones about the report and the addition of new gases that have been accidentally left out. I'd say the pollution of the atmosphere, the climate, the pollution of the public space that stems from Dragan Gilas is getting more and more intolerable. In his attempt to deny the obvious evidence of his accounts in Mauritius, Gilas broadcasts more methane than all broadcasters combined, and I must point that out to the ministry representatives. Gilas is creating a terrible climate. He has now been drawn to the evidence to represent desperate untruths, muttering clear water evidence of his bank account in Mauritius, where he has 5.7m euros. I mean, let's just see if Gilas is otherwise prone to false because I claim that what she is now, yesterday and today, is going to be false. I'll just remind you of the untruths of this year. First, he launched news in January that the elections were stolen and that two hundred thousand votes were cast into the box. Absolute untruth, seven months later he remembered it. He then denied moving 50,000 people out of Serbia daily, so 18 million a year. The third was false that a picture with a criminal was created by the Japanese government by accident, and it wasn't. Then this week, 12th and 15th times, he lied that he had no account at all in Mauritius, that he never had it and that there was no account in any bank in the world, privately of course. Now that we see, when we prove that he has an account in Mauritius, he's now screaming about a fake. So, a five-minute internet search. So, it confirms, when we look at the annual Deutsche Bank report in the last year, in 2020, which says nicely, on the list, it's called the Shareholding List, so it's part of the daughters of companies and branches that Deutsche Bank has an active daughter bank in Mauritius, exactly where Dragan Gilas has 5.7m euros and it's called Deutshche Securities Mauritius Limited and it's an offshore, entity in Mauritius that provides those classic services that all these entities of the bank in tax paradises provide. In the Deutsche Bank report in that year, the bank in Mauritius is based on regular number 242, in Port Louis, in a part of the city called Ebene right on Mauricias. It is an active bank, and in it, Dragan Gilas has an account and his company Askanius, he is an authorised person, therefore, his account. What will Dragan Gilas continue to do when further information is provided on his further accounts and on other of the short destinations. Whether or not they're going to make them fakes. I mean, it's just not a good idea. So here I'm going to go back to the influence of man in the natural environment, just tell you one educational, evolutionary climate bass about Dodo, and Gicky from Mauritius. So there was once a Dodo bird in Mauritius. She died 200 years ago. Today it's a symbol of Mauritius and it's on the coat of arms of that state. Unfortunately, the Dodo bird is also a symbol of stupidity. So it's a joke of evolution. The ancestors of Dodo were pigeons who flew into Mauritius 10 million ago. Since they had no natural enemies and plenty of food they had, the Dodo bird is of the height of the i.e. A pigeon of 15 centimeters and weighing 200 grams over 10 million years has grown to a bird of 20 kilograms and a height of one metre. So Addy became 100 times the weight of his father's pigeon. Now, the bass about the stupid and grammable Dodo is similar to that part of the bass and the story of Gilas' evolution. So, evolution of Dodo lasted 10 million years, and the evolution of the Gilas dove lasted 10 years. So, the pigeon Gilas, was once a pigeon, Gilas, it was a poor pigeon. At the beginning of his evolution, he was a modest official of the Sashi and Sachi agency, having a smaller company with his wife and brother. He had 75,000 or 4,000 euros in savings, a used car and lived in his wife's house. So, in 2004, that pigeon, Gilas, weighed 100,000 euros. After 10 years of evolution and climate change on three functions, abuse of official position and trade in influence, Gulas pigeon evolved into a huge Dodo Gilas, weighing 619m euros. So, Dodo Gilas from 2013 became 6,000 times heavier than the 2004 Gilas pigeon. This is an educational evolutionary fable, more natural. Grampity and devourability don't pay off, the dodo bird is extinct, and Gilas has made almost the entire opposition extinct, the party he once led extinct. Gicky Mauricias, that he's alive and well, will answer to the law. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4153	By amendment, MP of the Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4154	Thank you. I also support these amendments and support the proposal for a law on climate change, I find it very important. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandar Vukic together with its coalition partners, participated in the adoption of more important laws in this parliament because we both as a party and as a state show responsibility for all areas, so here, the latest data on vaccination, we are the first in the region, the second in Europe, among the five in the world, and this is a good statistical indicator in which Serbia is heading. As for economic growth in the last year, here we are, for the second year in a row, the first year in Europe. As for the law and their compliance with EU recommendations and we are among the best, it says, Mrs Vujovic, and the law your ministry has proposed. Despite the numerous and embarrassing attacks of the previous days and weeks and on you and my fellow MPs and on President Vukic, I am ordering you, Mrs Vujovic, to do your job with your associates and continue to carry on so responsibly that you are leading the Ministry very important and as far as European integration is concerned, and of course there is little to explain how important it is to protect the environment and everything related to ecology. You, as minister, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic show one great responsibility and professionalism, and I just want to remind you of what happened earlier in your portfolio. We had various actions of environmental and other cleansing of Serbia by 2012, when members of the former regime, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Dulic, Jeremic and other their associates participated in cleaning Serbia, cleaning Serbia by cleaning Serbia's budgets and filling their pockets. One of the best statistics in the newer period, such as Dragan Gilas, since 2004, when he became the director of some national office of the Serbian presidency, and since 2007, Minister for the National Investment Plan and then the mayor from 2008 to 2013. For those underage ten years, he put 619 million in his pocket. He succeeded, on average, about 61m euros, what we know, to put in his pockets, to kidnap Serbian citizens. As Gilas succeeded annually in taking 61m euros from Serbian citizens, so did those ministers in the Serbian government who both delegated Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas by 2012, that as far as the environmental sector is concerned, they were filling their pockets and causing abnormal damage to Serbian citizens. I am very happy on this occasion, as are most Serbian citizens, because today we will vote for the latest Official Statistics Programme between 2021 and 2025. Statistics show the opinion of Serbia's people and citizens who are over 60% with Alexander Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party and our coalition partners. So now we have a serious situation where it has been clearly established that members of the former regime, led by Dragan Gilas, participated in various criminal activities to make up a serious organised criminal clan that had its activities in economic crime, in organised crime, confirmed accounts at Mauritius, confirmed accounts in Switzerland, all reportedly, evidence exists. And I know that even in the coming period, there will be a lot more to come about, not fraud, but criminal activities and Vela Belivuk, and Dragan Djilas, and Vuk Jeremic, and Marinika Tepic, and Dragan Šolak. I list all these names on purpose because Serbian citizens need to know who is at the top of the criminal pyramid in Serbia, who is doing damage to Serbian citizens, while Serbia is fighting, led by Aleksandr Vukic to obtain vaccines, while fighting for economic growth, while fighting the mafia to increase wages and pensions to Serbian citizens, to build a few more hospitals, schools, a few more kilometers of highways, to help Serbian people both in Montenegro, and in Republika Srpska, and in Macedonia, to take care of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of religious, national and political commitment, we have attacks by members of the former regime and Dragan Gilas. I only hope that Dragan Gilas will not, as he did last year, walk around the temple of St. Sava in my municipality from Vračar and cry again. So he can cry and shed his tears as much as he wants. When someone insults Dragan Gilas, he whines, cries, sues, gets judgments through his people in court, it's a special issue, that we don't owe it now, we'll talk about it next week, and when someone gives an ugly word to Minister Vujovic, Vladenko Malovic, Aleksandr Martinovic, Sandra Christmas, Vladimir Orlic, President Aleksandar Vukic, that's normal for them. So, when it comes to the officials of the Serbian Progressive Party, you can threaten both family and children and parents, and closest associates, it is allowed for members of the former regime. But the people know the truth, and the people are the best protectors of all these numbered officials, and of my dear colleagues, and of our dear president. The people are always with those who are fighting for a better Serbia, who are fighting for our future, who are fighting, as well as my dear fellow Members, the MPs, led by our president of the parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, we are also fighting to adopt as many laws here as possible, and to be partners with both the Serbian government and President Vukic, to be real national tribunals, to be true MPs, to be our own contribution. We know that we have fierce opponents on this road, and the opponent is one, dear citizens of Serbia, is the opposition to the mafia, and the mob leaders are Dragan Gilas, and Veljko Belivuk, and Dragan Solak, and now I don't list everything my colleagues have listed. On this occasion, at the very end, I must also give full support to Dr Martinovic, and Sandra Christmas, and Vladimir Orlic and all my dear fellow MPs, who these days are the subject of the worst possible attacks by Dragan Gilas and members of the former regime. You know why they're attacking? They only attack because they're telling the truth. The people in Serbia have always been hungry for both justice and truth, and we, the MPs, led by Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic, are fighting for justice and we fight for the truth, and as long as we do not allow it in any way, not even Dragan Gilas to shut our mouths, nor to allow our fellow Members to threaten with a haircut, or to threaten any national MP. I'll be free at the very end to finish my speech with one quote. I hope you don't mind me taking some time. At the end of my speech, I would like to conclude by quoting Serbian and Serbian Progressive Party President Aleksandar Vukic's speech when marking the Day of Remembrance and Persecution of the Serbian people on 17 March 2004 in Kosovo and Metohija. We remembered and heard every lesson in which we were losers, every one where we were silent on our own victims, every one in which we were ready to forget. Serbia is no longer weak, nor is it a losing country. He's not threatening, but he doesn't forget. She's willing to talk, but she's not ready for humiliation. Serbia, just like everyone else, has the right to care for its people, its security and its well-being. The right to life is a fundamental human right and we will always defend it. I have an obligation to be winners of blood and war, the best in the economy, health care, sports, education and everything else that makes development and progress. That's what we want others to do, to deal with themselves, and to be successful. The winners forgive and move on. Losers spin in a vicious circle. We want a future in which we will remember, but from which we will not return. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4155	Thank you, People's Messenger. You're wasting your time with your MPs and I'll let you know, seeing as they've signaled your application, the system is constantly full. I will give my word to these orderly MPs. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4156	Thank you. As the President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members, we, as an informal Green MP group, have proposed this amendment on the draft of this law. The government and the minister have both accepted this amendment and the following. I think that's right because we as the Green Parliament Group are very active. I come from Cervlig. It's an organic and green community that really has capacity, but, of course, it would be good to provide some resources in the next period, specifically related to waste treatment, for waste management here. Otherwise, I expect that together, we from my municipality, where I come from, and the Aleksinac municipality, will have the opportunity to get the funds where we will do a complete sewerage network and it will be in the 2020-2025 period. That's one of the good things. It's going to be a wastewater filter, which is a big deal. We have opportunities for a healthy environment. It's something that's important for him to come to us in the next period as many tourists as possible. Otherwise, here in the Assembly as an MP of the United Peasants' Party and as a member and deputy head of the Parliamentary Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party, we will vote in favour of this bill, because I think this is necessary and we are putting a major emphasis on protecting the environment, on investing in the environment. That's what we talked about in the previous period. As for our farmers living in the area of Southeastern Serbia, make sure that the country is not burdened by bad substances, chemicals. The country is healthy and my colleague Marijan Risticevic, who, like me, fully supports the development policy of our agriculture, our village, investment in the village, and it does not matter whether it is a village in Vojvodina, whether it is a village in Rasko, whether it is a village in southeastern Serbia, whether it is a village in Svrlig. We all need to live better in these villages, that our people who stay there live to have conditions and can live from their work. Once again, I am speaking and will always speak for the needs of Southeast Serbia and the development of agricultural villages, the development of everything that is important, and for all of us, the environment is important and, dear Minister, I will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4157	Thank you. The word has a national MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4158	Thank you. The Honorable President-in-Office, respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us with a proposal for a law on climate change. As climate change is a global problem, they require a global response to which every country must contribute within its capacity. The state of Serbia, as a member of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, has defined the implementation of activities that will contribute to this objective. The adoption of this law should also be seen as a development opportunity, as a possibility for new green jobs, as an opportunity to develop new economic operators. The law must not, and I am convinced that we will not view as a dead letter on paper that we must adopt here in order to agree with the EU. This roof law must systematically and thoroughly include all the actors of society in order to leave Serbia more beautiful than we have found it. In the next period, it is necessary to reduce the emissions of harmful gases that cause the greenhouse effect. The draft law prescribes the creation of a low-carbon strategy and the current plan, and the deadline for adoption of this strategy is two years. Climate change, in addition to the emissions of harmful gases, affects general sightings, worries about the human environment and the protection of the human environment. We must work to raise awareness, starting with the youngest generations and education on the importance of preserving the environment, and on the other hand by tightening the criminal policy for unconscious citizens. I'll give you an unkind example that you've probably all heard of. Namely, I come from the municipality of Surcin, a city municipality located in the capital of Belgrade, a municipality through which the Sava River flows over about 40km, a municipality in which the Bojcin forest is protected by natural good and represents a monument of nature. About a month ago, an unconscious citizen in this beautiful municipality near Belgrade drained 22 tonnes of chicken legs into seven different locations. I'll remind you that one location was only four kilometers from the water source. The municipality responded very quickly and located the problem and municipal inspection, but the police were involved in resolving the problem as well. The municipality has legally removed this waste, and how much it cost the citizens of Surcin and citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that only the kafilarium was paid 35 dinars per kilogram of this waste, so multiply 22 tonnes by 35 dinars per kilogram, plus the machinery, plus the people involved in removing this problem, and where the time spent to solve this problem is. I just have to point out that thanks to the rapid action of the Surcin Municipality, the City of Belgrade, an ecological disaster has been avoided, because only four kilometers from one location lies a water source from which Belgrade's drinking water is fed. The authorities have been handed over the material and we hope that soon the perpetrators of this act will be known and brought to the law, but I really don't know what punishment would be for such an inhuman human act. The estimates show that the damages have been caused by climate change in Serbia around seven billion euros, but these are only damages from climate change. Where are the damages to individual and general cases, as we had in the Surchin municipality? How did we get to 2021, and why is this law only being passed today? These are problems that have been piled up for decades and can't be solved by just one law on climate change change change, but we're definitely on the right track. The question arises why the law is being passed today, and could we have adopted it before and why not? We are not, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the previous government has also seen the greening sector as a possible opportunity for its wealth. We only remember former Minister Oliver Dulic and his known affairs, the installation of optical cables and the company "Nube", for which he was convicted and convicted of abuse of his official position. Let's remember the "Let's Clean Serbia" action, where he only cleaned up the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because it cost over half a million euros, and there were no visible results on the ground. Did the millions that Oliver Dulic sucked out of the budget, from the environmental protection sector, end up in Mauritius? Did the money used by the Ministry of Culture end up on some exotic islands? Did the money that Dragan Gilas sucked out of the Belgrade city's budget while he was mayoral in countries known as tax havens? Dragan Gilas entered politics as someone who was not particularly wealthy, and after eight years of politics, the government came out as a very wealthy man, with accounts in Mauritius, Switzerland, with companies in the Netherlands and Luxembourg. This is just part of what we know, and where's what we don't know what this man has today? We know what the people of Belgrade left behind. They ran out of Pionir Park, they got the most expensive bridge in the world, they got over-supply projects, they got a replica of the Terrace that serves today only as a mockery for the citizens of Belgrade, and they lost their budget money. Today, in its public ballots Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Borko Stefanovic and other leaders, so-called. "opponents" do not choose words when they address us and characterise us, and only for the sake of collecting cheap political points in order to regain power and succeed another million state money, the budget money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to transfer to their private accounts, but we will not allow them to do so. Finally, I would only appeal to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to follow the recommended measures and to be vaccinated, because this is the only way to get back to normal life, because citizens of the Republic of Serbia, unlike citizens, are able to vaccinate and have a choice of vaccines to be vaccinated. I'm going to vote in voting day to support this bill anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4159	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4160	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to begin by presenting one important news, that is that Serbia has signed a new contract to purchase another 2,000 vaccines from the company "Sinofarm". Otherwise, Sinofarm is the largest and best pharmaceutical company in the People's Republic of China, and it is another big victory for Serbia, another big victory for what Aleksandar Vukic is doing and the policy that the president of the Republic of Serbia and all those who stand in defense of the policy he represents and led in Serbia today is President Aleksandar Vukic. I want to talk about the environment today and two days ago. What I'm saying is that my colleague Bakarec was absolutely right. The largest environmental polluter in the Republic of Serbia, something more dangerous than nuclear waste today, is just Dragan Djilas, along with that Marinika Tepic, who, we heard, got some wings yesterday, began to cluck, there have been various forms of their mental disorder recently present in the media that they are paying fatly. It wouldn't all be so terrible if there were no attacks, those terrible, impertinent, poor, primitive people like the President of the Republic, primarily his family, his children, the underage Vulcan. Imagine, a three-and-a-half-year-old child is the target of someone who calls himself the largest opposition in Serbia, which is actually the greatest killer and leader of the largest mob clan in Serbia, who is actually behind politics, behind the opposition story, behind the story of some alternative to the SNS government. The biggest environmental polluter, a criminal, a motivator for mobsters and murderers, for those who would like to see the severed head of Serbia President Aleksandar Vucic, that biggest con man and the thief attacked both women and ladies here, because for that he does not actually have the courage to face all that he is, the worst in Serbia, so, like, because he can't beat Alexander Vukic, then he will attack Minister Irene Vujovic, then attack our letter Sandra Christmas, then he will order the beating of Maja Gojkovic in the Serbian Assembly to represent numerous lies about all SNS officials, then all their portals, media, to God's independent, and paid with, we see, maybe various Mauritians, etc., millions of euros, which were robbed of those years when he was a fake director of SNS, then all their portals, media, media, or Serbians, have not been able to name it with the citizens, and the Serbs, when they knew that they had no reason of the Serbs, when they had no reason to speak. You can see what leaves behind and exactly what actions are talking about. That's what my colleagues used to say, and I've repeated it many times, and it's left like a picture and an opportunity, and the power of a clothed replica of Therazi, and it's that Hetherland, and there's a number of ruins left, and there's minuses in the accounts. Let's remember the minus that Serbia then had 3%. Imagine, for them it was a successful policy when Serbia was down. Why was it a successful policy for them? Because they were richer from year to year by dozens and hundreds of millions of euros. Of course, it was a successful policy when he obtained bills all over the world, making money in sacks from this country, when his brother-in-laws, cousins, godfathers, friends were freely selling drugs to our children in schools, in the schoolyards, of course it was a successful policy for him. Of course, Serbia is now a failure for them because Serbian citizens are those who are growing standards, do not grow standard to tycoons and mobsters. Of course they don't like how the Environment Ministry works, Mrs Vujovic, because today we have a minister in this sector who is truly struggling for the environment to be much better and cleaner than it was in previous decades in Serbia. For the first time, we have a minister who truly takes care of the environment, and not of his personal interest and that great praise for you and for your work, the citizens of Serbia see it well. Wherever the problem arises, you find yourself solving this problem together with the citizens, not running away from the problems, not denying the problems where they appear to exist, but saying we'll do it too. We have projects to invest in, we want to work together with citizens. Today, the government of the Republic of Serbia and citizens are partners in solving the problem. Today, Serbian citizens are not subjects experienced by Dragan Djilas, nor are they insane and illiterate as they are experienced by Marinika Tepic. They are not naive or stupid as Bosko Obradovic thinks. Serbian citizens see very well who, what and how it does to make this country better, safer, healthier. This is well seen through an example of vaccination. It's the last example where we show how to access our country in a responsible manner. We are not subjects of the EU or the West or the East or anyone. We are, as a government, obliged and responsible to the citizens of Serbia to work in their interest, not in our own interest, to fight to be more vaccinated in Serbia, to appeal from here every day. There is no more important battle in Serbia today than the battle for life. This battle for life is being fought by vaccination, driven by respect for the measures prescribed not by saying that the coronary virus does not exist, because it is precisely the goal of those like Dragan Gilas, to say that the corona does not exist and that it goes first to vaccinate. Don't lie to people. Don't encourage people, call on coups, organize them. Do not cooperate with those criminals who want to kill Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, just to move into the chair, just so your hands are close and your brooms close to the state register, to clean up again as Oliver Dulic cleaned up with Tadic and others in that action, "Let's Clean Serbia". They literally cleaned it up. Everything worth destroying in Serbia has been stolen, conquered, and Serbian citizens have been paid the lowest in the region. We were the poorest country in Europe, among the poorest countries in the world. Serbia was a mockery during their rule. We were the perfect place to develop the worst. The investors fled from Serbia. Everything that came from Serbia was worth it. They are so rude that they lie that tens of thousands of people leave Serbia daily. It's like a man who doesn't know how to add up doesn't have a digitron so he can type in and figure out how much it is. Does anyone think that we're all buckled up on our backs, that we're so naive, that we're crazy, that we don't see how we live today, that we don't see the fast tracks, that we don't see that we'll be able to make it from Belgrade to Novi Sad in half an hour. When could we do that? During Gilas and Tadic, I remember taking one train to Sremska Mitrovica, it took four and a half hours, and an hour and a half officially, so much train was delayed. Four and a half hours to Sremska Mitrovica then, so you can go back without a train, past time. You can only walk. That was the case when Đilas, Tadic, Jeremic and the others were on the government. They panicked so much when these accounts were revealed in Mauritius, Switzerland and other exotic environments where the gentleman flew, so they didn't remember yesterday that he directed condolences to families who had been killed, they suffered terribly from KIM during the pogroms carried out by Cypriot terrorists in Kosovo on March 17th. Not a word of it, because there was a panic. As soon as you hit them in the pocket, as soon as you scratch into a multimillion-dollar account, it doesn't matter either Serbia or Kosovo, it doesn't matter at all. That was not remembered by Jeremic, who betrayed and sold Serbia, nor did Gilas, who would have sold it at the same time as he had the opportunity to sell it, who would have recognised Kosovo's independence if it had to come to power. They didn't think of it, Kosovo and Metohija didn't even think about it. For them, Kosovo and Metohija are a burden. I will quote for the end of Serbia's President, Alexander Vukic, who said nicely yesterday - for us Serbs, for him as president of the Republic of Serbia, for all citizens in Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija is not a burden and will never be a burden, nor a burden, but a cross from which the resurrection is best seen, and I will add the resurrection of our successful, beautiful, modern and best country in the world, our Republic of Serbia led by Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4161	According to the amendment, the word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4162	The President-in-Office, respected and respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues, the proposal for a law on climate change and its application will establish a system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and ensure adaptation to changing climate conditions, one of the EU's strategic objectives and the basis of the green and circular economy. The speed of response to climate change is important and requires urgent action. The seriousness of this topic was also seen by the Green Parliament Group formed in 2009 as an informal group of MPs aimed at improving parliamentary work in the field of green policies. The group aims to contribute to its commitment to make the climate change law that is good even better proposes four amendments. The government proposed that the National Assembly adopt three of the proposed four amendments, as did the Environment Protection Committee. One of these amendments is also an amendment to Article 2. A bill of this law. In this regard, Article 2 lists greenhouse gases that have also led my colleagues to tax which are and which are the result of human activities, as well as sectors and systems exposed to the effects of climate change. With this amendment, we added gas nitrogen trifluoride and that gas was introduced into the list of greenhouse gases, whose emissions were monitored by the methodology for producing gas emissions inventory with the greenhouse effect of 2006. The Environment Agency has been applying this methodology for more than five years, so there is no reason why this gas should not be included in the law. Azot trifluoride is an unflammable gas, without the colour and smell used in the production of LCD screens and semiconductors, as well as in some types of lasers and is a very important gas with a greenhouse effect. I will remind you, even the citizens of Serbia, of the definition of a glass garden – that this is a phenomenon that happens when certain gases that transmit into the earth's atmosphere retain heat, like glass gardens, and hence this name. It is these greenhouse gases that are the most responsible for increasing our country's temperature with a trend of further growth, which slowly creates conditions that will not benefit most living beings on the planet. In the principle of discussion, I explained the seriousness of climate change, and above all on human health, and I will repeat that these are various respiratory, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and other diseases, and that is not all, climate change not only affects the physical, but also the mental health of people, as well as the reduction of living and working ability. The coronary pandemic has shown us that when health is compromised, our economies and lifestyles change and weaken. Serbia, as the responsible state and ministry responsible for environmental protection, joins the world struggle for the survival of the planet, and above all for the promotion and protection of the environment in our areas. That is why I call on my colleagues to vote on these amendments in the voting day, as well as on the whole of the law, because this will contribute to the better lives of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4163	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4164	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the respected minister with his associates, your ministry has taken significant steps since you took it. I'll count three, four things, and it's about the amendment. Otherwise, it's about protecting and improving the human environment, and we talked about it very little earlier. The waste from Covine is being driven to a dump in Pancheva, which is what our distinguished emissary, Mrs. Christmas, told and informed the citizens. What is needed for the Kovin municipality is needed for the whole Banat, a long-term solution, and this solution is being prepared by you and your ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You, ma'am, together with the government, have prevented an ecological disaster. What else did the Ministry, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS need to know. No sanitary dump of Stanjevina, one of the largest environmental bombs in Serbia, has been closed. That's very important. Furthermore, funds have been allocated to resuscitate the transfer of stations to Novi Varoša and Kanjiža, but there are separate funds for the recovery of dumps in Čačka and Trstenik. The funds have been allocated for eight new regional centres, which is very important for the entire Republic of Serbia, for waste management, which will cover more than a hundred local self-governments in Serbia after construction. The ministry is ready to financially help cities and municipalities solve their wild dumps on their territory. Why? Because for SNS and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, the health of citizens and economic development comes first. Dear Vice President, the former regime did not take care of the protection and promotion of the human environment. That's what I was talking about, and today I'm only going to ask three questions. When it comes to the former regime in which the tycoon Dragan Gilas participated, I ask him before the citizens of the Republic of Serbia whether it is true, and it is true that we are informed by the investigative press, that Mr Gilas, on 12.12. 2020, had five million euros in one of his firm's accounts at Deutsche Bank in Mauritius. Is it true, and it is true that we are informed by the investigative journalism "Evening news" that on 12.12.2020, you had 620.147 euros on the accounts of the branch of a company, at your company "Multicom", and this is very important. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and respected MPs, is it true, and it is true that investigative journalism informs and underlines us that authorised account users were Dragan Gilas and his brother Gojko. I repeat again, is it true, and it is true that the investigative journalism "evening news" informs us that the authorised account users in Mauritius were the brothers Gilas Gojko and Dragan? Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Gilas deceives us daily with lies, he has money not only in Mauritius and Switzerland, but who knows which destinations around the world. This is very important, which is why media attacks under the control of Dragan Gilas, President Vukic, are becoming increasingly intense by the preparation of the tycoon-mafic-political groups and individuals connected, whether domestic or foreign implementations. What is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens, while Dragan Gilas and his DS associates, while in power, I underline, destroyed our past, our present and future of our children. If they had stayed in power after 2012, only a year, they would have destroyed our roots. You respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia did not allow that because you sent them into the political past. While the president of the state, Aleksandar Vucic, daily returns Serbia's international reputation around the world, implementing peace policy, solidarity, the acceleration of economic progress in these difficult pandemic conditions, so far tycoon Gilas is as a fraud, and to say - a bastard, that the chairman would not call me, such as earlier, a bastard means a cheater, not to quote you, does everything he can to keep his huge millions of euros in accounts in Mauritius, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Bulgaria, or God knows which destination. The Serbian Progressive Party and the president of the state will defeat the mafia, regardless of religion, nationality or party membership. Long live Serbia, lived the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4165	Dear People's MPs, just one request, as you know, our system works so that at the same time I have five MPs on the list. There's no need to press this button all the time with which you're looking for word rights. You'll all get to the turn, because there's a concern if this keeps going on that we're just going to drop the system and we're going to have to involve the IT guys, give a break, etc. So, slowly, sometimes the system is blocked, I delete the list, but don't keep signing up, you'll all get in line. Another announcement from RTS -- we would like to inform you that today, on Thursday 18 March 2021, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transfer to the second RTS programme due to the previously agreed commitment. A recording of part of the session, which will eventually be broadcast in direct transmission, will be broadcast in the evening. We're moving on. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4166	The respected chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected co-workers from the Ministry of Ecology, this very important law, and I believe that he and the amendments that we as the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the strongest Bosniak party in Serbia, our parliamentary group of Justice and Reconciliation parties and the United Peasants' Party will vote, will give extra room for your ministry to act more effectively. This one fundamentally important law is important for every citizen and citizen, it is important for the stability and regulation of our country, and I am sure that today in the voting day it will be supported. As for the amendments, they are less technical, and I will particularly refer to the second amendment, Article 15(2), which says by March 15th that local self-government and autonomous provinces must send their reports concerning the measures they have carried out, as well as the occurrences such as floods, extreme temperatures and their consequences. So, yesterday we talked about statistics, the importance of statistics, the importance of writing, of sending reports, why, in order to have good strategies, and in order for these strategies to be implemented in real life and to give the desired effects, it is necessary to keep it permanent and, in this case, to the Ministry of Ecology, to process these data. How important is this amendment? The point is prevention. So we saw what the floods in 2014 mean, and it's very important to build a coastal fortification, to work on the use of rivers. The area from which I come, the Sanjak municipalities, we have a permanent problem when it comes to pouring the Lim River into the territory of the municipality of Prepolje in the settlements of Zalug and Brodarevo and it is necessary to build a coastal fort. This is where we expect certainly the help of the restoring ministry. Also, the town of Novi Pazar has a problem of the same nature when it comes to the Raška River and the Jozanica River. We had big problems in the recent past where households were at risk, car crashes, etc. As for the fire, and certainly regarding this amendment, I want to point out the problem that it is very important to work on dislocating in the summer months of the fire departments, because we have a situation that the settlement, for example Brodarevo, is 20 kilometers away from Prepolje and it has a huge space from Brodarev to the surrounding villages of 20, 25 kilometers away. Also, we have the same problem when it comes to Shadows. If there is a fire at the cave high, from the fire station in Sjenica until a fire truck reaches the Long Field, it is already 20 kilometers away, and we have surrounding villages such as Delimđje, such as Raskovici, such as other villages that are up to 37 kilometers away. Now that that truck has reached the Long Field, then to that village, it is already 50, 60 kilometers and it is impossible to prevent greater material damage and, when it comes to growth, forest land and rural households. What's the point? I'd like to ask you and we'll probably have some conversations, where I'll insist on seeing if there's a possibility in co-operation with the Ministry of the Interior that dislocating will take place in the summer months, like some emergency services that would be in those remote, border areas of the municipalities. In voting day, we will be happy to support this amendment law. Once again, I congratulate Minister Vujovic and her team on the results achieved, especially when it comes to the non-sanitary dump "Stavine". It's a huge problem that we've solved to the satisfaction of all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4167	Just to let you know that your MP group is out of time. The word is from the vice president of the National Assembly, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4168	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, it is good that the amendment has been adopted, because we have completed an important law and I am one of the promoters along with my colleagues from the Green Parliament Group. I would like to take the opportunity to say about the amendments and the Climate Change Act, as a JS MP coming from the Raška area, more specifically from the city of Kralje, to say from the perspective of the impact of climate change how important it is for every city in Serbia to fight and reduce the impact of climate change. In order to avoid the negative impact of climate change, such as the rise in temperature and change of rainfall regimes, heat waves, droughts, floods and cold waves, the Department of Civil Protection of the City Administration Kraljevo, in co-operation with your Ministry of Environmental Protection and the UN Programme for Development, with the financial assistance of the Global Environment Fund, has initiated the construction of a local adaptation plan for changed climate conditions. This important document is currently in the adoption procedure at the local congregation. Often and sudden floods cause huge effects on people's lives, the economy as well as the state of the environment, and from 2014 to 2020, the territory of the city of Kralje has been hit seven times by floods. The damages and losses were estimated at over 40m euros, exceeding one local budget. In order to reduce the risk of disasters, and in the context of adaptation to changed climate conditions, the town of Kraljevo with the Civil Protection Affairs Department, and in co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Office for Public Procurement, the public company "Serbia" and "Serbiasum" developed a project documentation to build multi-purpose hydroaccumulations on Žička reka. These accumulators will serve both for water supply in the dry season and for the purpose of extinguishing forest fires, as well as for dumps to stop large materials in case of large waters. Just in this period, as of spring, when it starts to melt snow from the surrounding mountains, when the mountain's words swell up, pick up the garbage and waste that was found there because of reckless behavior, perhaps every one of us in this hall, this garbage ends up in the Ibar River, which one part of its flow passes through the center of the city of Kralje, making perhaps the most beautiful key in Serbia, pours out, sinks the key and sports fields that are located by the river and leaves behind a real dump. This may well show our relationship with Mother Nature. Of course, with the help of the city, is it supposed to be a picture that is literally repeated every year, not only in the King but, I'm sure, in many cities across Serbia? Unfortunately, we have to wake up as a nation and educate ourselves so this sort of thing doesn't happen to us. To go back to the project. This project is one of the first to be realized in our country and will serve other local self-governments as one of the ways of solving the problems of the climate change and the disasters that follow them. I hope that the state will find the possibility that this project will be implemented, of course, with the help of your ministry, to determine the financial resources. The estimated value of the investment is about 40 million dinars. In addition to the problems presented, as well as the initiatives launched, it is important to point out and I want to highlight the natural beauty of this region. I want to mention the area of Lojanik near the Matarus bath. This area has been protected by the state for decades in terms of natural and cultural goods. In fact, over 10 acres of forest is an amazing and strange natural process turned into beautiful siliced exhibits. These pieces are stoned trees that are often accompanied by the occurrences of fallen and calcium, or precious stone. Unfortunately, the area is wildly exploited and insufficient surveillance quite devastated. However, this is also an incredible natural and cultural wealth, as it is some assumption that it is one of the first mines in Europe. The town of Kraljevo initiated and developed a project through the Department of Civil Protection and Environmental Protection in collaboration with the Faculty of Mining and Geology to adapt this area and establish a geological park. This park would serve as a kind of tourist attraction, and in the system of education as a teaching base, which would be of interest to the wider social and scientific community. Only two such parks exist in Europe – one in the Czech Republic and the other in Greece. Interesting in these parks is amazing. So this is one of the ideas for your ministry, especially at a time when we witness that natural beauty under the influence of climate change disappears almost daily. For the end, all disasters and pronounced climate change that have been expressed over the past ten years have led us to the need for more active access, as well as co-operation. Co-operation must be achieved between different sectors, as well as different institutions, regardless of the level of government, or the level of decision-making. Regarding the necessary co-operation, and according to the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which we have initiated and brought to the National Assembly, the area of environmental protection, i.e. water, air and land requires inter-municipal co-operation. In principle, co-operation has been achieved in relation to common risks of disasters and flows of larger rivers as specific geographical regions, it is necessary to associate services, institutions and individuals at local self-government levels. It is precisely the latest incidents with mine gaps in northern Kosovo and Metohija as possible pollution of rivers or springs of water supply, municipalities, cities, downriver from the gaps the need for more active co-operation and the need for local self-government, which otherwise have problems with the lack of human and material resources, through association and the formation of joint services, to find the best solution. Of course, all with the support of the Resolute Ministry. I hope I haven't come out of today's topic and out of the subject of the amendment, and I believe that your ministry will do everything to reduce the impact of climate change, that on a global level, in collaboration with world institutions, you will work on solving this problem. You will have the support of the Unique Serbia, because we want to leave our children healthy nature, clean air and green fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4169	I would like to thank the vice president of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP, Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4170	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. I am very pleased that the Law on Climate Change is ahead of us this week, first because of the law on which we have been working for a long time, because it represents an extremely important roof law, and then because this law has come to our turn, it means that we have solved many of the key problems in our country and that we are prepared to commit ourselves and deal seriously with this topic. Climate change is certainly a global problem affecting Serbia. We are the very witnesses of all the changes that are actually due to human activity. The result of an increase in the greenhouse effect in the atmosphere comes first from the burning of fossil fuels in the energy, transport and industry sectors, as well as agriculture and waste management. As climate change is a global problem, countries must contribute in line with their capabilities, and so the Republic of Serbia has defined itself to carry out activities that will contribute to this goal. By adopting this law, we will draw closer to the European Union and at the same time give our contribution to this global fight against climate change. The European Union wants Europe to be the first climate neutral continent by the middle of the century, so, according to some forecasts, it is planned that only hybrid or electric cars are passing through the streets by 2050, because only the higher representation of the vehicle on an alternative drive can reduce the harmful environmental impact. At the end of 2020, a Regulation on conditions and how to subsidise the purchase of new vehicles that triggers the electric drive was also adopted, all to implement measures to improve air quality and improve the quality of the environment. Serbia is making systemic steps with this law to bring us closer to the EU, and it will also have other positive effects on the economy and citizens. Serbia is among the first Western Balkan countries to pass such a law, and in addition, this law is on the list of priorities, because it is our obligation and we must preserve the country for future generations. The adoption of the law should affect the raising of awareness and see this law as a chance for development, a chance for green jobs and the emergence of new economic operators. This is where everyone should be involved, starting from citizens all the way to the economy, NGOs, the scientific community. I believe this law will unite us towards a common goal because it is extremely important for us all to have economic development green and clean, so that the generations that come leave a better Serbia than the ones that we have found. Work has been launched, thanks to you, Minister, for decades of problems and only working together can we fight climate change. We are all witnessing more frequent and intense extreme weather opportunities such as floods, droughts, heat waves, which carry with them huge losses estimated at as much as seven billion euros. The negative impact of the flood is most visible, but droughts are the ones that contribute to the greatest losses. It is extremely important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions because it is also important for the development of the economy, to increase competitiveness and also attract foreign investment, by which we are an absolute leader in the region. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has a number of activities and projects and very good co-operation with local self-government, and so is Pirot, the city where I come from. The project "Waste Management", i.e. primary selections, was launched in Pirote, which means separate collection of municipal waste. A separate line of collection and transport of dry and wet waste is also foreseen. The first phase meant building a 1,250-metre-square-square hall, while a complete infrastructure for municipal waste separation, which is one of the most significant investments in the area of environmental protection that is being implemented throughout the county, will be completed. By the end of the year, they will be put into trial and we believe that this will be a fine example of good practice. We have an intense year ahead of us that requires the performance of a number of obligations, but I have no doubt it will be successful as well. In co-operation with the Office for Public Investments of the Republic of Serbia, the Memorandum of Joint Co-operation has also been concluded and a project and tender documentation is being prepared for construction projects, i.e. reconstruction of wastewater treatment plants and the construction of sewage networks in 28 local self-governments, including the Pyrotski District, which greatly improves environmental infrastructure. In addition, the town of Pirot has been successfully implementing for several years an energy efficiency improvement programme in Pirot and within which there is stimulation for changing facades, carpentry, but also for changing ways of calculating energy through new valves, calometers and other equipment. This year, a public call will also be made to improve energy efficiency and households in the city, which is very important because by improving energy efficiency we reduce fuel consumption, protect the environment and improve the performance of our home budgets, as well as city heat. Dear Minister, I must commend your work. You have our full support for all your efforts. We're tracking the results that are visible, although you're relatively short in this place. This way I would like to invite you to visit Pirot, because we firmly believe in continuing the existing and building even better co-operation in the coming period to improve environmental protection. In the end, I would also like to send full support to President Aleksandar Vukic, his determined fight against every type of crime and corruption and his day-to-day commitment to Serbia and the lives and health of all citizens, as well as to support all my colleagues who are constantly exposed to attacks these days just because they are defending and believing in the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic together with all of us. In the day of voting with the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", I will support this amendment, as well as the bill, in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4171	I thank the People's MP, Olija Petrovic. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4172	Thank you. Respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministerial co-workers, I would today take advantage of the opportunity and look again at the proposal for a law on climate change submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about climate change, it is important to note that the climate on Earth is constantly changing, that it has always changed, that we distinguish climate change until the beginning of the industrial revolution, when the climate has changed as a result of changes in natural circumstances and after an industrial revolution, where we use the term climate change when we talk about climate change as a result of human activity. Climate change does not happen on its own, but is due to anthropogenic influence. The burning of fossil fuels in sectors such as energy, transport and industry, deforestation, urbanisation, directly affect climate change, and as a result we have increasingly frequent and increasingly intense occurrence of natural disasters and disasters. So, we are witnessing increasingly frequent and increasingly intense consequences of climate change, such as: droughts, floods, forest fires, reduced yields of agricultural products, reduced availability of water, draining during heavy rainfall, blasting of asphaltes, disease and pests, as well as the emergence of new diseases. All this directly leads to an increase in damages and losses and thus reduces the resources available for further investment, which are needed for the development of a single country. If we add to this information that total damage has been caused by climate change in Serbia since 2005, seven billion euros, it is quite understandable that such a law is proposed. Serbia is a responsible state, is aware of the threats posed by climate change, and this constructive, modern and first proposal for a law on climate change in Serbia is the result of this responsibility. I must also point out this opportunity for environmental and environmental protection to require a large amount of financial resources, where only economically stable countries can afford it. So, to this topic and to this bill, we, respected colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, have come to a responsible and state-of-the-art policy by our president and our government that pulled this country out, at the last moment, from the hands of the previous, irresponsible and arrogant authorities that led Serbia to the brink of destruction. Today Serbia is a financially and economically stable country, a country where unemployment is at record low, a country where the average salary is higher than 500 euros, a country where wages and pensions are constantly increased and a country that is respected internationally. The bill itself has a clear objective, which is to limit the emission of greenhouse gases in a cost-effective and economically efficient way, which contributes to achieving the scientifically necessary levels of emissions of these gases and to avoid dangerous changes in climate at global level, as well as adverse impacts of climate change. To be clear, the law sets a legal framework for further action with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to changing climate conditions, which is also one of the five strategic objectives of the European Union and the basis of the green and circular economy. Also, this bill obliges the Ministry of Environment Protection to develop a low-carbon development strategy, an action plan for the implementation of this strategy, as well as a programme of adaptation to changing climate conditions. By adopting these documents, as well as by law, we also fulfil our obligations towards the international community, i.e. the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement. In this way, we are approaching another step towards the European Union's legal assets, which is the fundamental and logical goal of our country, because Serbia is a candidate for membership in the European Union. To conclude once again, the essential benefits of the Law on Climate Change for the Republic of Serbia are the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions, the increase of society's resilience in general to the negative effects of climate change, the planned adaptation of all relevant sectors to changed climate conditions, the establishment of reporting mechanisms and verification of information on meeting obligations towards the international community, increased competitiveness of our economy and attract investment, especially in line with European Union market standards and requirements, resulting in faster and stronger economic growth and development. Also, three very constructive amendments have been proposed aimed at completing this bill. Therefore, I will personally, and I hope that my colleagues will vote in favour of the Climate Change Bill, as well as the proposed amendments, in the hope that they will be the basis for a strong, modern and healthier Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4173	According to the amendment, the People's MP Milos Bandur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4174	The Honorable President, the Honorable Madam Ministers, Associates, Honorable colleagues and colleagues, allow me to begin by commending the initiative of my colleagues who have submitted amendments to the law, and this is the best proof that MPs are very carefully reading the materials that are being delivered to them, because very often in those malicious, unwittingly we hear remarks that we are only giving up our hands, we are not reading anything, we are not wondering, which is not true. Here, these three amendments are proof that MPs are very carefully reading everything that is being delivered to them and that they are, of course, creatively involved in making and creating our policy and Parliament's decisions. So, my support for all amendments and my support for the very title of the law, because there was a public dilemma whether it was a law against climate change or a law on climate change. I think the Ministry was absolutely right and that you, Madam Minister, were absolutely right when you insisted on the name – the Climate Change Act. Because climate change can't stop, it happens both beyond man's will and beyond man's activity. Our primary task is to adapt to these changes. That is why the second part of the law applies to adaptation to climate change. That is why we have an obligation to create a adjustment programme and a adaptation action plan, which means that we look at the state of the climate in the Republic of Serbia, to see and carry out a predictive of the climate movement in the coming years, to see what are the points, or areas where the dangers and changes are greatest and to make an action plan accordingly. Personally, I think that this action plan will be based on activities in the field of forestry, agriculture, water industry, precisely because of the great droughts, due to the huge floods caused by climate change and which have caused damage to the Republic of Serbia for the past 15 years and 15 years, respectively – from 2000 to 2015. So, the title of the law is great, the Climate Change Act. Of course, a man’s activity speeds up climate change, speeds up the warming of the earth’s surface by emitting gases and those that have been introduced into the law by colleagues today, means greenhouse gases or gases that contribute or create greenhouse effects. We've predicted these targets, somewhere in 2030, to reduce the emissions by 9.8%, or reduce the emissions of these gases from the 1990s, but that's, watch out, 90 years. It's a 1990 period, it's 40 years. We had a situation that between 2000 and 2014, we increased the emissions by 7.8%, which means that we will have a very serious task, which is that with the strategy and the Action Plan which will follow from the strategy, we will establish sectors and determine sectoral policies and sectoral objectives that will be very precise, which will be fully quantitatively expressed, where we will say who will have to limit or reduce emissions, who will have to drastically reduce emissions, and yet this depends on the socioeconomic conditions, or how much it costs. Of course, the socio-economic conditions are constantly mentioned in certain members of the law, and that is very important. You can't do something and you can't ask, and at the same time you don't have the cost of costing all of it, or simply see if you're able to handle it economically or not, but in any case, when all these sectoral objectives are added together, the total contribution will have to be 9.8% compared to the 90th year and this increase from 7.8% we had from 2000 to 2014 will have to sort out somehow and fit into all of that. Great support to monitoring, great support that every broadcaster, i.e. gas producer, will have to submit a monitoring plan to the Environmental Protection Agency and, of course, to obtain consent to this plan, but also to the verification of monitoring, i.e. the establishment of new legal entities that will be accredited by the accreditation body of Serbia, which will be tasked with actually verifying that monitoring, so that someone would not lie, so that someone would not install, harm data, etc. So the law is completely comprehensive and it guarantees one mechanism of self-control and control, external control of all of the results produced by the manufacturers, i.e. the emitters of these gases. It's about the law, and I have to touch what my colleagues talked about today. Yesterday I heard that one man has 50 accounts in 17 countries. It's just amazing. And now whether it's 660 or 6m euros that have been proven, it seems to me a few days ago in a text of journalists dealing with investigative journalism. I say, again, looking at the aspect of a man who receives a profit, and most Serbian citizens live on that profit they receive. Well, it doesn't matter if it's 660 or six and six is too much and six is a lot of money. That's what was proven a few days ago. It was acquired during the period when someone exercised power. When he exercised power and what I can now conclude or abuse as an ordinary citizen, he acquired that six million or illegally acquired either by abuse or by somehow taking advantage of a political position and gained it, but in any case it was immoral. It is immoral that during the exercise of power, private wealth can be acquired during the exercise of a particular function. Especially in the situation, and that was when Serbia collapsed, when businesses collapsed, factories collapsed, companies closed, people poored, and you know someone gained so much wealth. What's most interesting to me now is that someone wants to come to power again and I don't understand the goals. It's just my goals and they want it to come back to power, they're not clear. Does he think he took some, so he has to take more or I don't know what it is? Just to me as a citizen who simply resonates, simply thinks, that part is not clear. In this regard, I would like to support the activities of future inspectors who will be involved in the review of the origin of the property. The law adopted by this National Assembly was great but I would have noticed that the adoption of that law required strong political will. Strong political will among those people who carry power. Strong political will both with the President of the Republic and with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Strong political will and in executive power. Many before that had the opportunity to pass the law, so they did not bring it. It may have been easier for us MPs, we have received the text of the law, looked and saw, changed something, agreed and voted, and now most of the work is coming and is on those who need to apply the law. I hope that these 60 inspectors of ours who are going to comb the property and determine who acquired the excess property that can't explain it, for which there is no excuse, will do their job well, regardless of whether it's about those who are digging up, hijacking and wanting to come back to power or those who are laying low and hoping that no one will hear or notice them. Or that third group that's trying to pat us on the shoulder and praise and says that we're doing something good, and we know that they were in power back then, too, that they were in the turn in 2000, that they were too, that they were scratches, and later they bought fairies not to Mikonos, which are worth six million euros, drinking wine whose bottle is worth ten thousand euros and so on. So what I think we should say as SNS and as people who support President Alexander Vukic, is that none of those who will come under the influence of the law on the re-examination of the origin of the property. None of those who won't be able to explain where they're getting so much property from are ours and can't be ours, whether they object, whether they're silent, whether they pat us on the shoulder and say, well, you know, you're not bad, you're doing your job solidly. This government is supported by most citizens of Serbia, and these are people who live on their salary, those are people who live on their own production, those are people who live on their own incomes, those are people who live on their own work. We don't need any other support but that support. We don't need the support of anyone who comes under the influence of the Law on the Requestion of Origin of Property, I say, whether he was on the opposite side, whether he was laying low or trying to be gentle and that by doing so, he thought he'd be excluded from control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4175	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4176	Thank you, Chairman, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Minister Vujovic, I would like to express my satisfaction that the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to make a positive statement on all three amendments the government has accepted and that these three amendments after our statement, I hope they become an integral part of the law. Why is this Article 2 of the Law and the amendment that we as the Green Parliament Group have submitted to Article 2 important? The explanation sent by the government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia says that the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol came into force in 31.12.2020, and that it also introduces nitrogen trifluoride into a group of greenhouse gases. Why is this member of the law important? First of all, because through Article 2 of this law, we have an opportunity to measure the level of gas and we will know how to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases and how to keep them at a certain level. Through Article 2 of this Law, above all, the diagnosed problems, i.e. to identify sectors that are at risk, which are health care, agriculture, and forestry and in general water economy. The GHG gas register to be run through the Environment Protection Agency will also be the basis for monitoring and measuring GHG gas levels. What is important in the coming period is that the investments that will come cannot be approved in Serbia without measuring these gases. So this really is an excellent law that Serbian citizens expect to apply to a healthier and cleaner environment. Of course I can't, not to mention the fact that the citizens of Serbia have lost sight of the amount of money the companies of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak have made in 17 countries around the world. All those who respect us these days and tell us that we do not need to talk about this in this high House and that this is primarily the jurisdiction of the state authorities, I would like to say that this is the only and highest legislative institution in which laws of importance are passed for the lives of Serbian citizens, an institution that monitors public finances, and I believe that parliament should be on the front line in the fight against corruption. Also, I want to say that I may have talked about this topic for the first time in Serbia in 2009, at a press conference, providing clear and accurate information from the APR on the companies of Dragan Gilas and the money they are earning. It's been five years since he entered politics. I must say, at that time both institutions and media and NGOs were silent. Meanwhile, the octopus discussed today has released tentacles in 17 countries and Serbian citizens have the right to know about the origin of this money, both the institutions of Serbia and how they should work to illuminate the origin of this money and the fact that a tax is paid to the state of Serbia for this money. Also, I think that we are, unfortunately, the only country in the world that has such a situation of corruption and crime, people who have been in power and who are trying and plagiarizing to return to take money from Serbian citizens and continue to destroy Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4177	Thank you, MP Dubravka Filipovski. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4178	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, we will vote in favour of the proposed Climate Change Act, as well as the amendment submitted today by our fellow Members. Serbia is one of the few countries that is now approaching this issue in a comprehensive and systematic way, so to say, into the legal frameworks brings this important issue regarding climate change. Today, of course we have to talk to this subject from a broader point of view. I would like to commend your work, Mrs Vujovic. For the first time, I have a person at the head of the Ministry who is visible to the public, who really advocates environmental protection, and it seems to me we haven't had a chance to talk about specific things when it comes to protecting the environment for a long time. I have to point out in particular, since I'm coming from the Zlatibor County, it's kind of how it worked out to be the first district from which you're going to go into Serbia when it comes to these wild dumps and protecting the environment. It's an example of this regional dump deep that's caused us all a lot of trouble there. Your Ministry heard after many years to finally realize, that is, the project of expanding this regional dump today we are certainly at a much better level, the development of the environment when we solved such a big problem. Stanjevina dump, also in Prepolje for which you've heard after 40 years, is being moved. For many years, this has been a problem that has been said so on the way to campaigns by pre-election local parties, and no one has ever been the issue, really quite as thoroughly realised as it is today by your Ministry who has heard and which has given significant resources to remove this dump from there. That's where I should also mention when I'm talking about our district and that Transfer station between Prepolje and Priboj, there's also a big problem that's been going on for years. Let's not talk about those ugly scenes from the Potpetz Lake when you were expressly reacting when the Ministry, too, got involved in the whole problem, solved the burning problem. Indeed in this way you show that you are doing your job specifically, which, I say once again, is a step towards some past time. Of course, as soon as you're doing it, there's a bunch of on-call critics, the ones who want to get it all dirty, if they could somehow get everyone's mistake out of context, and then make it look like someone made a mistake, a certain lapus. These people who honor you today are one great lapus of Serbian citizens. They're the laps of those 12 years of our lives lost. Simply, from 2000 to 2012, we had an unprecedented robbery of Serbian citizens. Instead of talking about these things, therefore, about their insubordinations, they try to draw attention by talking about someone's, eventually, failures, but once again I say, who is doing this and making mistakes. So, good for you. You're doing your job, really, for the first time I'm saying, we have a person at the head of the Ministry who's visible to the public, who points to solving problems that have been pushed under the carpet for years. When we talk about it, we must certainly say that Serbia today stands out large funds. You have announced that we will subsidize all boiler rooms, or those located in state-owned companies, such as kindergartens, such as schools, hospitals, boiler rooms that need to be crossed... from coal to gas, to some fuels, or some energy that are cleaner in the environment. There are huge funds, millions of euros that the state will single out for these purposes. Also, heat, we have a problem. Today we are talking about that 70% of the electricity produced in Serbia, produced by EPS, comes from thermal power plants. So, we have a really big problem. Some budgets require ten billion euros. That's exactly what I'm talking about. It's a huge problem that we have to systematically solve. So ten billion euros needs to be allocated to us to move on to some cleaner energies and to be able to protect our environment. This was certainly not possible to consider while Serbia was in a difficult economic situation, in the difficult economic crisis that the former authorities have introduced us to. There couldn't have been a word about how to solve problems like this, I say, when we had a country on our knees. Today, when we have a stable financial situation, we can also talk about the country's huge investments in the sector and energy, and generally environmental protection, and that will certainly be what we will do in the coming period through the "Serbia 2025" programme. We have, therefore, foreseen the construction of 29 wastewater treatment plants, 11 municipal waste treatment plants. These are concrete things. One huge sum will be set aside to solve these accumulated environmental problems. I say, when the state has money today, we can also talk about these topics, we can talk about ways to preserve the environment, how to build highways, how to build new hospitals, how to be the first, practically, let's say, in the region we're the first, and in Europe the second at the rate of vaccines, then we can talk about good results, what Serbia's citizens expect of us. We couldn't even think about protecting the environment eight years ago, or building roads, hospitals, schools, when you had in power those, to call them kleptomaniacs, who only watched where they were going to steal a euro, which dinar from Serbian citizens. They few had bills in Serbia, but opened up their accounts in as many as 17 states, so they piled up money. Here, we hear today that Gilas doesn't even know there are 5.7m euros in Mauritius. Somewhere lost in his budget that number. We hear they have a certain amount of money in Switzerland, that they practically kept money robbed by Serbian citizens all over the world. How, then, could we talk about any development in Serbia when you had people watching in all ways as much as possible and putting as much budget resources on their accounts as possible? Today, when we often talk about these topics, when we say -- today we build roads, we build schools, we build hospitals, some say -- well, don't build that Vucic, don't build that Serbian Progressive Party, that's the money of all Serbian citizens. Well, we remind them that eight years ago, citizens paid taxes, that even then the state had funds, it could have built everything that we're building today, but obviously it wasn't done. Why? Well, because someone cared about their private accounts that they took money away from Serbian citizens, rather than invest in what they really needed, and what we have to fix here today. Simply, if those 12 years had worked, as Serbia is now doing, we would have been, I'm sure, at one European level, long ago, been a member of the EU and certainly would have been much easier for us than it is today. But once again I say, today is a domestic, responsible policy. We will try to keep the state on this course and we have the support of the citizens of Serbia, so the citizens of Serbia recognize who is working in the interests of Serbian citizens, who is working for our country, who has worked for private accounts, for their own companies, and therefore the citizens of Serbia are giving this great plebiscite support to President Aleksandr Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Foreigner, and that is why those who advocate the boycott, who have practically disappeared from the political scene, because they do not even have the censorship, because Serbian citizens will never again give confidence to people who robbed them and reversed them during the time they were in power. We will certainly vote in favour of the proposed law and once again congratulate the results of Ms. Minister, because we finally have a chance to talk about these topics that are certainly important, which have somehow been pushed into the third, fourth plan for years, and today we have the opportunity to talk about this important issue in every other place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4179	I thank the People's Messenger Dabic. So we're going to try this - to announce three advances, to stop pressing charges. The next one will be given the word Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, so Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, and then prepare Dejan Kesar and slowly, when they are finished, then place will be freed. So, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4180	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, I would like first to commend the government's adoption of the proposed amendments to the MPs, all with a view to improving the quality of the law even better. The Climate Change Act shows in fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic is persistently, responsibly, diligently and diligently working on all fronts. The Climate Change Act is in fact a law on improving the environment, and by improving the environment, we also raise the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are priority number one in the goals presented by Aleksandar Vukic in the goals of this government. I would also like to stress that this bill for the first time regulates the issue of greenhouse gas emissions in one plan and systematic way, and all in order to reduce them, to preserve a healthy environment and reduce all the harmful consequences that such emissions may cause, and we have witnessed budgets that since 2020 the total damage caused by the elemental disasters and flood disasters cost the Republic of Serbia about seven billion euros. The plans and strategies and action plans and the Programme for the Monitoring of Climate Needs and Forming of the Body of the Council of Government, the National Council for the Protection of the Environment, will consider in one detailed way all the objectives that will be pursued in order to respond in an adequate and timely manner. What I must point out, Madam Minister, is that for this short time you have shown that you are equally important and that you are equally engaged and when it comes to environmental protection and in Belgrade, but also in those areas that are 600km away from Belgrade, or 300km in one direction. You have shown this by removing the "Stavina" dump in Prepolje, which has been a real time bomb for more than two decades, which is located at the end of Belgrade-Prijepolje's main road. Otherwise, it is a path that leads to Montenegro, but for me it is much more important that it is the path that leads to the Millesev monastery, which was built in the XIII century. It was built by the grandson of Nemanjin, King Vladislav. In it were the musts of St. Sava, and in the monastery of Milesheva there is a fresco "White Angel", which is protected by UNESCO. Not only did you remove the "Stvanina" dump, it's done, since it was located on the coast of Lima, and on the supporting wall on the Lim River. Of course, this area, which was once a mockery of this part of Serbia, will become a green area. Also, I must stress your great pledge, the pledge by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, when it comes to the deep regional dump in Uzic, I must point out that the ministry has defined 96 million dinars to expand the part of Deep. Otherwise, this dump is scheduled for nine municipalities of the Zlatibor County. Also, I have to point out a transfer station that will have a recycling yard that should be built in two years in the municipality of Nova Varosh. Water pollution is a major environmental problem. Here you have shown a quick and efficient action that it is possible to remove 10,000 cc's of floating waste that threatened to destroy the Lim River, but it has also threatened to stop working on the Potpečko hydropower plant. Not only that, you immediately contacted the authorities from neighbouring countries of Montenegro and BiH, because of course the Lima issue and the Drina River issue can and must only be implemented in the joint activities of all three countries. Also, I would like to point out that in order to decommission, namely to reduce the flow of harmful gases into the air of sulfur dioxide, first of all, about 400m euros in the previous six years have been invested on these projects. Also, I would like to highlight the Deep Process project in the Panchev oil refinery, which started work last year, whose work will lead to 98% of the less carbon dioxide coming into the air and thus ensure a better environment and better health for our citizens. That's how the government is responsible, that's how your Ministry is headed, and what they did by 2012 best shows the robbery of Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon company, because no opposition is. He didn't even participate in the election. He's a self-proclaimed opposition, and in fact he's the leader of a criminal yellow octopus, which silked its tentacles around the people's couples. The only way the government worked until 2012 was to rob people's money and make them rich. Neither the people, nor the better quality of life of the citizens nor Dragan Djilas, nor Jeremic, nor Marinika Tepic took care of it, because they were only interested in their personal wealth. We have proof of this today, Dragan Gilas, we thought that he had earned 619,000,000 euros because, of course, only the budget of the City of Belgrade by 1,200,000 and did not hesitate to rob and pregnant women by 400,000 dinars, he did not hesitate to rob and socially endangered by 120,000,000 dinars, he did not hesitate to illegally increase kindergarten prices and that, after his departure from power, of course, the parents responsible government in Belgrade, which we normally took over, had to return. He didn't hesitate to put his bills into tax credits. How many of these accounts have independent investigative journalism started to publish these days? I call on all the competent authorities and the prosecution and the court and the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Tax Administration to deal in detail with the money issue of Dragan Gilas, because he earned that money at the robbery of the people, gained in eight years of politics, gained eight years of power. What kind of work did Dragan Gilas do, so he made billions of dollars? There are over 600,000 euros in Mauritius and Switzerland alone. Robbery must come to an end. Work, order, responsibility and discipline is a policy led by Aleksandar Vucic, a policy the people believe in, and that is a policy that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of the electoral cycle give growing confidence in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4181	Thank you. As I have announced, the word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4182	Thank you, Chairman, for giving me your word. You're having a problem with your system today and reporting. I can say that I am glad that so many of my colleagues and colleagues are waiting for a word today, since in the last term I witnessed that our benches were empty across the way and that we pointed out that MPs and SNS MPs are worth it here in parliament. Dear Mrs Vujovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed the principle of this bill and highlighted the seriousness that we will now show by adopting the proposal and combating climate change. The impact of climate change on our economy has been evident, especially in recent years. Floods, droughts, fires, heat waves, all of this is caused by damages that, unfortunately, have been measured in billions of euros and, more precisely, since 2000, to date, the damage has been estimated even at around 7,000,00,000 euros. More than 70% of the loss, of course, is related to drought but the next big problem is floods, with which we have had the opportunity to unfortunately meet with their consequences. This law will set up a system to support sectors most at risk, i.e. the most affected by climate change. These are certainly the sectors of health, agriculture, forestry and water industry. If we succeed in protecting these sectors, we will preserve economic growth, but by adopting this bill, we will also respond to the need to bring our rules in line with EU rules. Of course, the adoption, after the adoption of this law, or the bill is expected to produce strategic documents, various strategies and action plans that will provide guidelines for economic development followed by low emissions of gases with a greenhouse effect in the sectors of energy, agriculture, industry, construction, transport, waste management etc. The positive effects that are ultimately expected from the application of this law are certainly the next day to correct the overall situation in the environment, better air quality and, accordingly, the preservation of Serbia's citizens' health. I would like only briefly to commend your team, Mrs Vujovic, who has worked on this proposal, especially because a broad public debate has been held throughout Serbia's cities and that representatives of the economic sector have been able to participate, but also representatives of the scientific community and representatives of the civil sector. The efforts of the ministry and government, which are aimed at preventing the elemental disasters caused by climate change, are high. Also, we can talk about so-called. "green jobs" on attracting investments that will take care of the existence of ecological standards. This will speed up economic growth and improve citizens' living standards, which, as we all know, is high on the list of priorities of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia. What is of direct importance to local communities is the competition I would like to mention at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, where 28 local self-government received funds for the construction and construction of plants and sewers networks. Three other competitions were scheduled and worth about 400 million dinars, which relate to the replacement of boiler rooms in local self-governments, to the replacement of individual bars and to shaming, which is very important. All of this will, of course, be the results of the work of the Serbian government, but also the co-operation of your ministry and the Serbian government with the local self-government concerned by these competitions, which are given in the area of environmental protection. So we have shown that in this area too we want to take serious steps. Of course, unlike the previous government that dealt with it, it has done well by opening accounts in banks abroad, but has not been able to correct the standard of living for our citizens. In recent days, we have been able to see evidence that Dragan Gilas is the one who claims to lead Serbia, who claims to return to power, that he has accounts in banks abroad that amount to millions of euros. To be honest, I didn't expect him to come out and tell the truth, no matter how much his property has earned that money, and whether it has anything to do with any abuses of various positions he's been in in his political career. And the question is, why doesn't he just come out and say, yes, I have companies abroad, I have accounts abroad, but it has nothing to do with the functions I've been on. It has nothing to do with maybe tenders or public procurement, or with other companies I hired or co-operated with while I was in office. Why isn't he in a position to go public with Serbia and say something like that? Why is it that anyone who wants to lead Serbia is not fair to the citizens of Serbia in the first place and publicly informs the information they want to know, and I think it is normal for the citizens of Serbia to be aware of whether and how their money was spent? Was the money taken from the citizens? Were the serious amounts of money pumped out of Belgrade's budget or Serbia's budget while Dragan Gilas was a minister, were they stored in accounts in Switzerland, Mauritius and who knows where, Serbian citizens have the right to know? But instead of the truth, Dragan Gilas did not give us complete information. I even think he went to the limit of hypocrisy when he said that he could have made that kind of money and washed the windows. What do you think now, ladies and gentlemen, is the citizens of Serbia who earn money through their honest work and even by washing windows, how do they view his 619m euros or all that money that ended up in Mauritius? Could they have earned 619m euros by washing windows and doing jobs and doing honest work and transferring their money to a Mauricios account? I think the findings that the news journalists came up with are terrible. I think their research has yielded results and has first and foremost come to know the public with serious, well-founded suspicions that Serbian citizens have been robbed, that Serbian citizens have been damaged by going to Gilas' accounts abroad. So, we have someone who has entered politics, as he himself said and reported, with about 70,000 euros, and after eight years of office, it comes out of politics as a seriously wealthy man with millions of dollars in Switzerland, Mauritius or companies that are in Luxembourg or the Netherlands. Why am I saying all this? Of course, I always have a concrete example, so today I will give you a concrete example of which you will see reasons for the concern not only of the people's MPs, but also of the citizens of Serbia. Dragan Djilas was the director of the National Office of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic, i.e. adviser to the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic and at the same time the owner of a monopoly company, which was the only one who could buy a space for advertising from a public service, and then reselling the same advertising space. For a reason, the question arises – to what extent is the misuse of public service used? Are the misused state resources and the political power of a man who, of course, led, or at certain high-ranking functions and high-ranking DS? If we have all this in mind, it is clear how important it is for this investigation to be completed, that this investigation is going to the end, that all criminal acts be illuminated and that the citizens of Serbia whose money is actually being found out the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4183	I thank the MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. To announce a new trio. As we have announced, the next MP is Dean Kesar. After that, the People's MP, Djordje Milicevic, has the word, and let the MP Milica Obradovic be prepared. So, the word has a People's MP, Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4184	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed Minister of Associates, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, I am extremely pleased that today in this place we can discuss and debate both the proposed law and the amendments to the proposed climate change law. First of all, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to highlight the importance of this law, which, first of all, will affect the creation of a legal framework for an even better protection of the environment and, above all, the health of all our citizens. I would like to say that this bill shows that as a state we are now matured, and that SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic's policy has affected the fact that, following the severe reforms that we have provided for the stability of Serbia today, we can commit ourselves to an even better protection of the environment. Of course, the field of environmental protection is not the area where the state should react on its own, but we all have to do it together. Only with common consciousness and joint effort must we influence to make our environment better for the lives of all of us. I therefore believe that this bill is only the first in a series of laws to set the most goals in this process, and also those objectives and to realize how we have done it to this day in almost all areas. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and you, Minister, have made this proposal a big step forward, above all showing intent and interest to create better conditions for the lives of all Serbian citizens. By reading this bill, I have come to the conclusion that the law is very detailed, that the most important institutes are defined in detail, and that what is more important is that the objectives are realistic and feasible. If we are talking about the reasons for the adoption of this law, I would like first of all to say that a system for monitoring, monitoring and verification of those data that are relevant to climate change will be established, then meeting our obligations towards the International Community, as well as harmonising our legislation with EU liquids. On this particular case today, we show that Serbia is today and that Serbia will be a serious and responsible partner to all EU institutions in the coming period. When we talk about the goals that are to be achieved by this bill, I would also like to commend your ministry, because this bill includes all those areas and sectors that are important to our country. First of all, I am referring to the process of harmonising sector development, such as energy, mining, construction, traffic, and above all to their competitiveness and survival in the market itself. Also, this bill provides for responsibility for the implementation of certain provisions in relation to the Environment Protection Agency, the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Mining and Energy and other relevant bodies and agencies. What is more important is that the establishment of a system for reducing unhealthy particles is one of the conditions of sustainable economic development and reducing the risk, damage and loss of natural disasters and disasters. Why does it matter at this point? It is important, above all, because Serbia faced both human and monetary losses between 2000 and 2015. The fact goes hand in hand with the fact that Serbia lost just over five billion euros for the period. When we talk about elementary disasters, I'm talking about droughts first, floods and high temperatures. That is why it is very important that in the voting day we support the proposal for a climate change law that will first and foremost avoid such events and try to invest that amount of money in Serbia's further modernisation. If we are talking about the topic of environmental protection, I would also like to talk about the subject that is very much in the media, both printed and electronic, which is the use of motor vehicles and perhaps their small contribution to somewhat unhealthy air. I am therefore very pleased that the draft law in Article 17 clearly defines the obligation of the sellers of motor vehicles to ensure the availability of data on the economy and fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Also, the seller of motor vehicles is obliged to place a consumption and economics mark on his cost. This provision is merely an indication that the Ministry wanted to influence the awareness of future buyers of motor vehicles, that by selecting these same motor vehicles, they could affect the protection of the environment. In addition to this fact, the Ministry adopted a regulation in December 2020 defining the means and conditions for subsidisation, i.e. State aid for the purchase of electric or motor vehicles. When we talk about the text of the law, I just want to look back at the most important parts. Chapter one defines all those objectives that are to be achieved by this law, and one of the most important is certainly the general interest of the Republic of Serbia in order to reduce unhealthy particles. When we talk about Chapter Two, there are defined all those documents which form the basis for the implementation of this law, which are primarily a strategy, an action plan, as well as a rule regarding changes in climate change. In addition to the measures relating to motor vehicles, I would like to speak today in front of you and all those things the ministry has managed to do for a very short period, since Minister Vujovic led the Ministry of Environment Protection. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed in November 2020 and that Prime Minister Brnabic then placed a special accent on environmental protection during the reading of the exposé. I am very pleased that you ministers have recognised the importance of this area and that you have recognised the objectives that the prime minister has set before the MPs. And unfortunately, we're meeting with all those media outlets and we're meeting with those individuals that we can only call politicians who haven't even waited 100 days for the government to work, so they can try to cut back on everything that you've managed to do for a very short period of time. It's just that your knowledge, your experience, your dedication and what's most important, your work on the ground, are not kindly viewed by those who have only failure and bad decisions behind them. I'm talking about all those people, I'm talking about all those officials who are now at the head of those parties, which are, of course, below the censorship, who, by the time of 2012, had no time for Serbia, had no hearing for Serbian citizens and had no desire to raise the topic of environmental protection on the scale anymore. When we talk about results in all areas, they are obvious, and when we talk about the results achieved by your ministry, they are also obvious. But it's also obvious that individuals from the opposition are trying to reciprocate your results in an almost insignificant way. You've put the topic of environmental protection in the place she deserves and you've shown that only by field work and in contact with citizens can we achieve huge things for a very short period of time. I will remind everyone that from 2009 to 2012, the Ministry of Ecology was an institution whose budget was used for party interests and individual wealth. At that time, the ministry carried out the "Let's Clean Serbia" action, so instead of cleaning up deposits and certain seats in Serbia, the ministry's budget for a million euros was cleared. At that time, he was leased a pan at a two-year sports event worth 500,000 euros, and then leased another pano on Pop Lukano Street at Sava Venac, also for a period of 500 000 euros for a month. Imagine, then, what was happening between 2009 and 2012, when former Minister Oliver Dulic was headed, and where Serbian citizens' money ended for the period. But as they speak of criminal charges, abuses, embezzlements, the Minister and your ministry speak exclusively of the results. I would not like Serbian citizens to resent me for reading in a few minutes all the most important things you have managed to do for a very short period of time. Just over four months ago, a non-sanitary dump in Prijepolje was closed, which has been a burning problem for many years. The ministry has allocated funds to extend the regional waste management centre's deposit in Uzic, which postpones waste from nine local self-governments of the Zaltibor and Moravik district. This year, the transfer of stations to Novi Varoša for four municipalities will be built; Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoš and Sjenica. Also, what merits special attention and what I would especially like to focus on is the timely reaction of your ministry and your minister in order to address a potential ecological disaster at the move of the Potpećko Lake due to the waste spill on January 25th of this year. Only by timely action took place a trilateral meeting at the level of ministers between the countries of Serbia, Montenegro and BiH, and then in just a few days, tens of thousands of cubic pieces of waste were transported to the regional centre. On this occasion, I would like to commend the JP's "Serbia" and the Elektroprivreda of Serbia alongside your ministry. Also, citizens should be satisfied because at this point, the opening of tender documentation for construction and reconstruction of wastewater treatment facilities, as well as for the construction of a sewerage network for 28 local self-government, including municipalities and cities. We are right here showing that we are all still following the policies of Alexander Vukic and SNS together, and that is the even development of all parts of Serbia. Finally, all of this, including the Climate Change Act, clearly speaks of the government's intention and your minister's intention to keep the topic of environmental protection out of the loop. Today, as Serbia above all, we are financially, institutionally much stronger than in 2012 when we implemented difficult reforms and created the foundations that we can today talk about the environment and, of course, improve it. That's what citizens expect from us first. Only by laws and actions can we show that all citizens and their better and healthier lives are equally important to us. Of course, in this House you will always have support for such and similar laws. It is obvious that you used knowledge and energy to achieve good goals, as was the case while you were at the head of the Sava Veneto municipality. I hope you will help with your efforts to make Serbia a better and healthier place for the lives of our children and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4185	I thank the People's MP Caesar. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4186	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. No, five. I've got plenty of time. I'll use the time of the parliamentary group, I think it's 15, and I have the time of the parliamentary group. Slowly, we are in no hurry, and the topic is very important and important to keep short. So, first of all, Madam Minister, I think it is very good that you have accepted the amendments submitted by the MPs, because this is an indication that in fact Parliament is a place where we talk about alternatives to how to get to as high-quality legal solutions as possible, and in this way you show that you care about getting quality legal solutions in order to realise the objectives you have defined in this extremely important and significant law. On the other hand, the proposal itself, the legal proposal itself, shows that you are also working normally to achieve these goals. Normally through exactly this legal framework that we hope to adopt during the day, and practically through the operation specifically what you did a few days ago in Kosjerić municipality, visiting Kosjerić municipality and implementing an extremely important and significant project. Now, first of all, a few words about the law itself, and then I'm going to briefly look back at what my colleagues were just talking about a topic that, I think, is very important to the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, the Climate Change Act itself is a legal framework for further action with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adapting to changing climate conditions. Human activity has increased carbon dioxide emissions resulting from burning fossil fuels when carbon-absorbed forests are cut. This carbon is released and contributes to global warming. Climate change is happening globally. It has been proven that global warming is not only happening by itself, it is due to an anthropogenic factor, the consequences of decades are the hottest back, say 150 years. In our country, an increase in extreme weather and devastating effects has been observed. Today, the average temperature on earth is almost higher than that before the industrial revolution, or before people started massing fossil fuels and hoarding carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Twenty of the hottest years have occurred precisely in the last 22 years, and the year 2015 to 2018 is the four hottest years. This trend could increase the average temperature on our planet by 1.4 to 6.4 degrees by the end of this century. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, temperatures have been growing in Serbia, especially in the last 15 years. That's the data we could've looked at. Risks and threats can endanger infrastructure, agricultural production, clean water access and cause drinking water shortages, the extinction of numerous plant and animal species is predicted, as habitats change faster than species can adapt. More and more storms, more floods, droughts, fires, earthquakes in the world as a result of climate change. The rise in temperatures is the main cause of ice melting leading to sea level growth and glacier decline. Millions of people in the world may be threatened by the frequency of malaria, water - transmitted diseases, and malnutrition. Faced with all the negative scenarios resulting from climate change, the question is how to prevent and slow global warming and overall climate change in the continent. Since the great share has a human factor, it is important that each of us individually contribute to the preservation of our planet, because another place for life we do not have. The issue of conservation and environmental protection concerns many international and national organisations and agencies. There are a large number of agreements, but it's not enough that they only exist on paper, but also need to be applied in peach. The area of climate change is a huge area in the negotiating process for Chapter 27 – "The environment and climate change". To protect the environment from the various negative effects of climate change, it is very important to reduce the emissions of harmful gases, which are one of the most significant risk factors for human health and for our planet. We, people, are, unfortunately, inclined to look at things just from our point of view, kind of like putting nature aside, on the opposite side. When we see the results of irresponsible behavior, which are cut down forests and lots of waste around us, polluted air, acid rain, then we come to the conclusion that we haven't yet built awareness that our responsibility is the greatest responsibility for the condition on the planet. We don't have to think globally every day, it's enough to be responsible in every local environment. Otherwise, I can't have the ministry, or the inspections, or anyone else repairing the damage that we do both to nature and to ourselves. It is good that Serbia, which had the first Ministry of Environmental Protection since 1991, is still very responsible for protecting the environment, but it is the fact that projects and processes are of long-term character. Ecology is very expensive, so preventive action is the most important. First of all, we're thinking about education for children of the smallest age, to realize how important the procedure for each of us is for the general state of affairs. That's why we have that organic saying -- think globally, act local. This is the essence of our response to the challenges of industrialization, consumer society and capital, which is pollution and destruction of nature, irresponsible use of primarily natural resources. In the context of protecting against climate change and adapting the whole world to these changes, it is important to bear in mind that neither all living species nor nature itself can adapt to everything, but rather pay the price of the living world. One example that is used today as pride for us, it is the famous "Pancic Omorics", which is a species of living fossil, because it comes from the age of terriers, and it has survived a cataclysmic ice age and we are today guarding it as a planetary relic. But I wonder if today, because of the irresponsibility of us as humans, something will remain and survive after us unless we realize that we are the ones who have contributed to the environmental balance and climate change disorder and that we are the ones who need to save the planet right now. So we should start changing ourselves, and then we should expect it from others. We have the support of the ministry, we have one responsible, serious, dedicated approach to the minister, but all of this is not enough if we do not do something ourselves during the period ahead of us, in order to realise the objectives that we define both by this legislative proposal and by any subsequent legislative proposal. Today, several times and several times, it has been said about, I have to look back on, the determined fight against crime and corruption that began the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia, and we have repeatedly said that we fully support as a parliamentary group a decisive, non-selective, continuous fight against crime and corruption. Here in Parliament we have passed a law that is extremely important and which contributes to this fight, which is the Law on the Origin of Assets. The moment we passed that law, the anxiety of individuals was noticeable, because they considered and spoke, critics of the law, that it was appropriate for us to actually deal with political inexperiences. We have said it many times – there is no selective approach if someone broke the law. If someone got rich and acquired illegal property, the state would have to sanction it. It has been said several times -- if the president of Serbia has accepted the first subject to be checked, if each of us has accepted to be the first subject to be checked, then to be subject to verification, then to fear when it comes to critics of the legislative proposal and when it comes to critics who always have something to say about this determined, non-selective and serious fight against crime and corruption. I say -- serious, because this was a serious blow to organised crime in Serbia. We believe that this fight will certainly continue. After opening certain topics, significant topics, as some politicians have become rich in Serbia, I see that these politicians have tried to defend themselves today at press conferences. But, you know what, if you already want to say something in favor of your defense or to deny anyone, then don't hold a monologue or how they say it in the sports jargon – a floor with an imaginary opponent, you hold a press conference, pick yourself up and leave and don't let the press ask you a single question. So, if you think you're right, then why run away from the questions the press is going to ask you? Allow journalists to ask you a question, answer it in fact, if you can answer it in fact, as they often respect us here in parliament every day, says – we do not have political culture. This Parliament has enough political culture and knows what political culture is, each of us knows what political culture is and at least has hate speech, because they don't even know what the real definition of hate speech is, but here we're talking about facts. If you can, please challenge those facts. If you cannot, it will, we are fully convinced, in a period ahead of us, dealing with competent authorities, competent institutions, and will have the full support of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4187	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. The word is Milica Obradovic, and let the preparations Ljubisa Stojmirović and Natasa Jovanovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4188	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the need for the adoption of the Climate Change Act lies not only in that, as a country which is on the road to EU accession, we would meet certain obligations set out in Chapter 27, but above all, lies in the responsibility that we have towards you, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of this law will certainly increase awareness and knowledge of climate change, but the most important thing is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To make it clearer to the public, therefore, it will reduce the concentration of harmful gases in the atmosphere caused by burning fossil fuels in sectors such as energy, traffic and industry. The proposal for a climate change law, which the government has referred to us for consideration, covers the control and monitoring of the emissions of six gases that cause the greenhouse effect. The amendment I've come forward predicts monitoring another gas emissions. This gas has already been introduced in a list of gases that are being monitored by the methodology for producing inventory gas emissions with the greenhouse effect already applied by the Environment Agency. Therefore, the adoption of this amendment and the inclusion of this gas in the Climate Change Act is fully justified. Since your arrival, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Minister Vujovic, has obviously taken major and decisive steps to combat all harmful causes both for climate change and for the very environment. When I say, obviously, I mean a number of already done projects, but also the ones you've announced to us that you're going to do in some future period. Of those projects I would like to start by pointing out the cleaning of the Potpeč Lake at the beginning of this year, as well as the closure of a non-sanitary dump in Prijepolje, which was one of the burning problems in the region. Also, a number of other non-sanitary dumps across Serbia will be closed and only after their recovery has been re-used. The fight for cleaner air is also being fought on several fronts, and one of them is the transition from solid fuels to gas. Therefore, the state allowed the price of the gas connection to be reduced to 50% for households. Also in the town of Kragujevac, city heat, as one of the city's largest polluters, will be connected to the gas by the beginning of the next heating season. Subsidies by the State for the purchase of electric vehicles will reduce air pollution and, on the other hand, increase the use of environmentally acceptable mode of transport. It is certain, therefore, that this year will mark a truly large number of investments in environmental protection. In as many as 28 units of local self-government, construction of a wastewater treatment plant and sewerage networks will be started. In the "Serbia 2025" programme, it was one of the priorities, that after years of fiscal consolidation, now and despite this pandemic of coronary viruses, we ensure that every household, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has a connection to both the water and sewerage networks, and that every local self-government has a built wastewater treatment facility. The Raca municipality, from which I come, can indeed be praised that one of the few municipalities in Serbia, which in the last three years, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, has succeeded in helping its citizens and has built a water treatment plant, which was built according to the highest standards and equipped with state-of-the-art technology, and also to build and release waste water treatment plants. What our further plans are is to complete the reconstruction of the water network, for which we have already done project-technical documentation, and also to reconstruct a complete sewerage network of 14 kilometers. I think the adoption of this law is a good opportunity to remind ourselves of how those who ruled until 2012 cared about environmental protection and thus the causes of climate change. I'm sure you all remember, the famous "Let's Clean Serbia" action that was launched in 2009, the action whose ultimate effects for environmental protection were insignificant and public finances and how devastating. The aim of this action seems to be to spend hundreds of thousands of euros on some pointless advertising, and that from the real cleansing of Serbia, there is nothing. The only thing they managed to do was clear the budget of the Republic of Serbia, clear it, and their pockets and bank accounts to fill. Well, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since President Aleksandar Vukic's arrival in power, such quasi actions or any other malversions have never been or will be. Today we work exclusively on large, capital projects, which can only contribute to a better and better life. And as far as this law is concerned, the reduction, the true reduction of the causes of climate change. Therefore, by supporting this climate change law, we are actually providing support on the one hand to a healthier and better quality of life, and on the other hand to a number of new eco-acceptable investments. Because you'll agree, investing in the environment is not a cost, but a safe investment for the future of all our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4189	Thank you, colleague. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4190	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister, there is no doubt that this law on global warming will be successfully resolved, that we will verify it here in the Assembly, because it is the least of the problems facing our society. We are a people who are very easy to solve big global problems, but we forget that every goal, every problem we want to solve depends on that small, first step. You can't solve the problem of global warming without solving it, or not solving it, however you want, the most fundamental environmental issues. I'll tell Mrs. Minister my wishes and my impressions first, and then I'll say something else. I'm one of those who doesn't like to praise anyone at the beginning of their careers, but with all my heart, I want Mrs. Minister to be remembered as the best minister in the field of ecology or the protection of our environment. I'd like that especially, because that's my dear colleague who I used to sit with in that other bench, as I recall, when we were MPs. Yeah, I'm a little older than her, but we sat together here in the assembly. And I would especially like it because it will thus justify the trust given by the party, as well as by the citizens of Serbia. When one day her mandate passes, she remains behind and will be remembered by both Serbia and all Serbian citizens. So I'm saying, I'm not going to praise her very much right now, not to jinx her, but I believe she'll take my advice, and she'll be wise enough and able to leave behind something nice, good and useful for Serbia. I don't want to talk about these global problems, because, like all Serbian citizens, I am plagued by these other, most common, simple problems. We're all from different places here in Serbia, but when we head to our homes, when we go to work, we meet, we want or don't want, in the streets, in the fields, in the roads, with dozens and hundreds of these protective masks that we throw so easily on the street. We meet dozens and hundreds of dumps that grace our places, our villages, our cities, the streets where we live. Citizens of a part of the Starship municipality, where I was once president of the municipality, called me, complained about, so I can't say that it's a sewerage, from certain buildings, a fecal sewerage is being taken to a stream in Mirievo and has a huge pollution, an unbearable smell and an impact on that environment. These are the problems that we first have to solve, and then we're going to move on to these global things. We can't compete with the world and highly developed countries that have solved basic problems, say, in the race to conquer Mars. What kind of Mars and what kind of coppers, let these great and developed, let me take care of the roads, take out our forests, our water, our rivers, the air in the most ordinary small places, so that this people can live in the pleasure of what our ancestors have left us. I believe that a colleague will have the strength to organise, force her associates to solve these problems first and remain remembered as the minister who has solved the most fundamental environmental problems in Serbia. It will be especially nice for both her and me and all of us in Serbia. I think we have a lot of problems to solve. We pollute the environment at all levels, pollute our language first. Here, I appreciate my colleague Gjolet, and he and many of you have prayed here who knows how many times – don't rub your tongues with those foreign words and foreign expressions. My Joe, buddy, instead of educateing us, makes us want to educate us. Most of you here don't say "the Parliament" but "parliament." Those aren't our words. Keep our tongue and our letter, and the Cyrillic and the Latin, for they are both our letters. Keep them safe because that's something we're recognizable by. Guard the rivers, guard the woods, guard the air. Serbia is a beautiful and beautiful country, but we do not treat it as the Lord commands, as our old man taught us. I have to, for what time, quote here the famous Indian chief of Seattle, who, although not a very educated man, an illiterate man, said: "Both the woods, and the rivers, and the waters, and the fish, and the plants and the animals, these are our brothers and sisters, let us guard them, we are one community." That's how we have to keep everything that's ours, too. I don't want to run away from another great evil, and there's a lot of those evils. One of the great evils that today's Serbia is also these reality programs that poison our children and our youth. And instead of fighting it, no, we let kids watch these vomits, act like they shouldn't act consciously or unconsciously destroy our future. In the end, I mean, something about another big, huge evil, which is crime and corruption. I fully agree with all sincere fighters to fight crime and corruption. It doesn't matter who he is, what he's from, if he's made a mistake, if he's committed a crime, if he's guilty, let everyone answer, so be it, both gender and God's help. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, I thank you for the attention you've given me. I apologize if I've taken away your attention and time, but I hope that in one fifth or 10 years with the pride of Serbian citizens to praise Mrs. Minister for making a major shift in the protection of the human environment and that someone will remember and that I said a word that helped her do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4191	Comrade Milicevic, you asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4192	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Very short. I very much appreciate, respect and respect my colleague Stojmirovic, and I must tell him that it is not my intention to educate anyone, nor to educate, only that through the vocabulary I use in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I try not to drag through every sentence the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but if I say in one sentence the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia then I try to speak in the next Parliament, because then it acts as a plionism. You know, it's too much to say in every sentence the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, it's not my goal, nor my intention to introduce foreign words as you said, the only thing I did in my presentation, and it's not really about the subject, and that's what I said at the very end, is that I looked back at crime and corruption and I was talking about that if someone wants to deny something, then it needs to be done specifically with facts, such as, say, my colleague Sandra Christmas here in parliament was talking specifically about facts. If someone wanted to challenge and deny these facts, then they should have done it that way at a press conference and allowed journalists to ask him questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4193	I thank my colleague. My colleague Sandra Christmas, replica. And you're going to be a colleague, we're going in a row, ladies have the advantage, for so much a gentleman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4194	It's a gentleman. I'll confirm it from here. Thank you. You are right, Mr. Milicevic, just when we talk about this environmental protection sector, we must still, no matter how complex I really am, and from this place, I must congratulate Mrs. Vujovic and her team on this law which, I said yesterday, is very complex, but also how necessary it is and how many years have passed until we get it, and she has for a very short time made this law so that we can talk today, and quite certain that you have shown by our actions how seriously we have taken ourselves seriously with environmental problems. Also, I would say that on crime and corruption, when we talk about the environment sector in previous years, there would be even more money, even more funding, it's one of the ministries that really need the funds, it seems to me that all the projects needed to protect the environment, to improve the environment, to use renewable energy sources etc. necessary to, of course, all that the ministry policy does and does and monitors the government's policy is actually in favour of the citizens. But I will talk about crime and corruption, Mrs Vujovic, another tycoon, a thief and a criminal reported today. Exactly, one of those who attacked you, Mrs. Vujovic, not measuring your results. It is one who attacks Serbia's president daily, who does not also care about the results that Serbia is talking about when we talk about Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic lower every day. Now, this tycoon, the thief and the criminal, and we saw, I called him last time, maybe it wasn't really on my side okay, but we don't hear the man talking are just these press conferences dumb, so I guess somewhere he listened to something, he ate something, but he was so insecure about himself that he had to read what was written to him, I guess I'm afraid that if you're some big, probably managers around him who care about his political reputation and everything he says in public, I'd say he should think about changing their engagement and finding them some replacements, because what Gilas and read, he can't say enough and say he finds his own voice directly and adds it. So, among other things, I want to pass on to you what was said at a press conference for Dragan Gilas, who spoke to us about the account he says he has or is no longer there, it seems to me that there is no way to hide this lie on Mauritius. He told us about Switzerland, although he said, there are not exactly four, there is one, and for those three or four, he's afraid we'll have information about them very soon, so he left that space to think about how these financial acrobatics with Switzerland went. But what he failed to deny, and more than once in public these days, is that he has an account in Mauritius, where, along with that account from Switzerland, there are over 6.4 million kidnapped money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is most interesting now in all this, regardless of all his anxiety, panic, hysteria because one by one comes in line all those accounts that Dragan Gilas in those 619 and more millions managed to hide from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia said that, and that is very interesting, I say, he directly added what Dragan Djilas failed to say or read, but certainly very interesting one thing because he said in a statement by Dragan Djilas, who read that Marinika Tepic did not take 200,000 and he claims from a drug dealer. Then he writes directly, saying, quoting Dragan Djilas, Dragan Djilas claims that Marinika Tepic did not take five million from Velja Nevola, or Belivuk. Wait now, 200,000, five million, six in Mauritius, 600,000 in Switzerland. I think, and not to mention that today's allegations have appeared in the media that, to be absolutely certain in the news of investigative journalism, where I will particularly refer to his relationship with journalists, he expects information that Dragan Gilas had, or is probably more, we will see more information tomorrow, the bill and Hong Kong. So, the map tower is slowly falling apart and falling down. All these tragic conferences that Dragan Gilas has been holding are no longer worth anything, except to be revealed to us by the new malversions of this criminal group. So, Dragan Djilas has actually confirmed today that Marinika Tepic did not take 200,000 but took five million from Veljak Belivuk. So, another press conference and I think that the prosecution can be found at the door of the Freedom and Justice Party in which Dragan Gilas holds his conference and that we already go back to what the Serbian citizens ask and what we ask here -- how he managed to hide 619 million and run away from responsibility. Well, it's the end of Dragana Gilasu. The end is because the responsibility is at the door, the house. What was even unheard of was the attacks during these few days on our MP, Alexander Martinovic, Vladimir Orlic, concerning some allegations against certain journalists. You know how Dragan Gilas treated the press at the press conference? By not talking to them, by insulting them. By refusing to answer a single question that journalists had the first chance to ask him. After all that was said, for the first time, journalists had a chance to ask. Dragan Gilas denied the opportunity to each of the journalists along the way by scaring, insulting and calling them all kinds of names. So we have several arches, journalists who answer to him and journalists who do not respond to him, but certainly no one wants to answer and says the last time he spoke to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. Well, you don't have to talk to him, he has nothing to do with criminals, with thieves. You're not his level or his world and why he should be talking. Talk to people. Address the citizens of whom 619m euros were stolen, you owe them an answer, you owe them an explanation of where all the money was being taken from them, in Mauritius, Switzerland, Hong Kong, go on. All in all in the coming days we will obviously have much to learn thanks to Dragan Gilas exactly about geography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4195	Thank you, colleague. Just to say no confusion, you answered the line. That was two minutes, the rest of the time we'll take to the MP's group. The word has a folk MP, Ljubisa Stojmirovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4196	I'm giving up to let my colleagues speak, and I'm going to explain it to Jolette.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4197	My colleague, it's up to the chairman anyway. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4198	Thank you, Vice President of the Assembly. Dear Minister with an associate, dear fellow MPs, what my colleague Sandra Christmas was saying earlier, I think it somehow circled the story in the afternoon and put an end to Dragan Gilas. It's a long time ago. What I want to talk about is the future that we need to build and as a Green Parliament group, which in this composition of the National Assembly is the most numerous of all before, let me say, the composition of the parliaments, tells us how much we are aware of the importance and how much we want to make our personal contribution to the future. As for 2020, we all know that it is essentially the year that we all want to forget, which has left one major health, economic, social and climate crisis. The only positive thing about this previous year is that CO2 emissions were reduced to a drastic level, and that is because many factories did not work, as were driven by much less vehicles during this period. It's the only advantage this year, I say, that we want to forget. What's basic is, we're either going to change our approach to combating climate change, or actually environmental change is going to change us. Climate change itself quite clearly changes the face of the earth. Over the past 650,000 years, there have been multiple cycles, more specifically, seven cycles of ice age and melting. Thus, we cannot from this perspective now understand how many glaciers were covered by Europe or America, and what an impact it was in general on animal and plant life, and how new habitats are being created. Last December 12th, "Climate Ambition Summit 2020" was held, and said UN Secretary Antonio Guteres, who essentially called for the entire planet to declare a state of emergency, because it is a very critical CO2 emissions. However, the organiser was Great Britain, then organised by France, the UN, in partnership with Chile and Italy. But there was no big echo about it for a reason, because the priority was different, and that was the panedemia and preservation of these human lives. Climate change, in fact, represents for many an abstract phenomenon, so when someone says climate change, they immediately associate with polar bears. The polar bears have not even been seen in the zoo, let alone in nature. Z That's why it's very important to get this close to the population somehow, and that's why it's important to the Ministry's general project, which says, by informing against climate change, so we need to inform and educate ourselves. You know for a fact that climate change primarily implies more and more serious rainfalls nowadays, then, they involve forest fires, and then droughts, or we have periods of warm waves. As the climate changes very quickly from snow to this extremely warm climate, we need as much as nature around us to adapt to it. Agriculture together with industry and transport are, in fact, the activities that are most affected by these climate change and agriculture is defended in such a way that much more spray is added, much more herbicides are added, and therefore, as a feedback, something is that nutrition is destroyed, taste, smell is destroyed, and we are destroying our health as well. For me, it was a frantic data that, for example, 25 billion tons of carbon dioxide was released into the atmosphere daily, i.e. every second 800 tons of carbon dioxide was released into the atmosphere. It's something we really can't figure out, but that's what's really going on. More than a billion people were considered by 2050, according to the Institute of Economics and Peace in Australia, more specifically from Sydney, a survey that says that there will be a migration by 2050, a large number of water and food supply reduction populations, as well as more frequent natural disasters. The more I looked at it, for example, the Netherlands, that one third is below sea level, and they are already starting to build houses that are on the water, so that when the water level rises, the sea level, the level of their houses rises. They kind of want to warn what's about to happen sooner or later. Here we come to a question, even a geostrategic position in which our country is located. We have a beautiful country that's tucked into Europe. Also, about this, we can see that many will surely be interested in this geostrategic position of ours to be here, so we will certainly be in danger. What I said was waste water, then air pollution, waste management, are basic problems. It's only 15% of the waste water that's being cleaned up, and everything else is going uncleaned into our water streams. Also, one third of Serbian citizens breathe in excessively polluted air and we are really with the Ministry that mentioned you in 2017, the Serbian Progressive Party has just established the Ministry because we were aware and responsible and how much work and effort should be invested in this particular area, and thus the Ministry was formed as a special ministry, only in 2017. What matters is that we change our relationship to nature, because it's the only way we can hope for something good. We can't take any big steps right now here, but the small steps of each of us as an individual, and that's important, to awaken our consciousness means a lot to the planet. Very often, the concept of energy efficiency is also mentioned now, and energy efficiency essentially means using technology to work, where much, much less energy is needed. The very problem of waste management, which the ministry with the arrival of Minister Vujovic immediately went to solve, is the problem of wild dumps. It is believed that about 3,500, with a free estimate, wild dumps now exist in Serbia's territory, but what's very terrible is that as soon as the wild dump is removed, local self-governments separate the money for it, new ones are being created again and again in the same place. Now, here we come to the essence, which is that we have to sort of go with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, with the Ministry of Justice, with the Ministry of Finance, so total one level to see how we can punish people who, starting with what they're throwing at the paper, and to those who throw away industrial waste. We heard a colleague talking about some chicken legs, and that's terrible and polluting the environment. People must be punished. It's not simple. You as an independent Ministry of Environmental Protection only in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice, to see what our legal options are, with the Ministry of Finance, with the Ministry of Local Self-Government can be triggered by something that happens in other European countries, which is that people must be punished, even with minimum punishment, on the spot. It's scary for me to see, for example, the gums that have been thrown on very nicely arranged sidewalks and it's simply uncomprehensible that someone can do it, but as soon as it's that big a number, so absolutely we can and we have to react on that side as well. People want to participate, you know. For example, it's a very nice example from Kragujevac when a machine takes plastic bottles, and in return it gives a ticket for a city ride. That machine is charging at an abnormal rate. This means that people want to participate and have a return, there, and some benefit, and that's a ticket to a city ride in Kragujevac. But that's where we come into another problem, and that's what about those plastic bottles that drive to the dump? We also have to have a round process, which is that we have to process those plastic bottles in the end line, so they're not just thrown together with other waste. I'd like to give some concrete examples here, and I'm done with this. I apologize if I'm a little too long, because I haven't been able to speak in principle, and it's very important to me. It might be something of these suggestions. Education, for example, should be, since we now have the Internet and television is present in every home and thus conduct education through collaboration with televisions that have widespread frequencies, through short films, through cartoons, through clips of what is right and what is wrong, because it often seems to me that people don't know how to behave. The second thing is to wake the world up about the warning itself, starting with small children, means from kindergarten, and beyond, how it should behave. I don't know exactly what it is or who it is for civic education, but as soon as there's so many bags of chocolates thrown around the school and everything, they don't know how to behave. In general, civic behavior is that we maintain hygiene all around us. So that's one thing. As far as television and these short clips are concerned, as there are now short clips to promote vaccination, to keep people's eyes on it all the time. So from now on, well, in the next period, it would be good for the Ministry of Environmental Protection to initiate some kind of project. That'll probably give us some results. The other thing is, I remember when we were collecting old newspapers in schools and competing between departments that would have better success. The prize was, of course, a trip, but it prevents, too, from cutting down our forests. Why not renew those actions, and yet here is the co-operation of the Ministry of Environmental Protection with the Ministry of Education and, therefore, it can produce certain results. I would suggest another action, which is planting trees. Tree planting is often organised in different ways by local self-government and most of these local self-government wants to be cleaner air and in their environment. However, I think one action at the level of all Serbia is needed here. It's often found as an argument - we don't have money from the seedling. However, it can also be solved in such a way that everyone born to a child, for example, would spend money on a particular seedling. It would not be possible to plant trees anywhere, but exactly according to the project, and that tree would get a beautiful tablet with a name, last name and year, and as the child grows, that tree grows, and that would be a wonderful project that symbolically shows how green Serbia is along with the birth of offspring. I'm saying, it couldn't just happen at a local level, it could happen globally by the ministry. There's a lot more, but since I've spent too much time, I'd just like to say that I think the minister is very valuable, very capable, to believe in her that she's really going to leave a big lead for her mandate, that there's a big job ahead of us, that she's counting on our help, and that's what I can say, that only a big job is ahead of all the problems that our country has, but we're here for you. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4199	Thank you, colleague. One notice for the MPs. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Before I set a break, I would like to read you the order of speakers after the break: Milimir Vujadinović, Bratislava Jugovic, Aleksandar Mirkovic, Mihailo Jokic, Bosiljka Srdić, Vuk Mircetic and Ljiljana Malušić. That's how we'll do it after the break. Now, on the basis of Article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4200	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has Bratislav Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4201	Dear President of the Assembly, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I discuss something about this amendment, I would like first of all to thank President Alexander Vukic for his international reputation both in Europe and in the world, especially in our partners, which is the Republic of China and the Russian Federation, and I am as a citizen in the possibility of receiving a vaccine today. I signed up for e-Government in February and today I'm invited to vaccinate. I've spoken to friends who are about my generation in both Greece and the European Union countries and they envy me. I envy that I applied in February, and I can vaccinate in March, and they signed up in February, and they'll only vaccinate in October, maybe this year, maybe. So, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, I am grateful to President Alexander Vukic and that my parents received the vaccine and that my child will finally stay in the same room for Easter after a year with her grandparents. So, back to this law now. This law aims to create a good climate so that we can realise important projects in the field of environmental protection. Without money, that's impossible. To be exact, without a lot of money, that's impossible. So money is for some religions and for those for whom money is religion, they move forever into the spiral of evil. For Dragan Gilas, money is religion. That's why he hides the money in secret accounts of Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland, Holland, who knows where everything is. He just doesn't hide them in his country, and he doesn't invest them in his country, where we'd have more money in our budget from taxes, contributions, various taxis for such important projects in the field of environmental protection. So he took the money, robbed Serbian citizens, took the money from this country and hid it all over the white world. For us money is not a religion, it is only a means of payment, a means to which, I am quite sure of the mandate of Minister Vujovic, to implement important projects in the field of environmental protection. The very fact that she is a young minister and so capable and has proved herself also as president of a significant municipality in Belgrade, as one successful young politician, energetic, it encourages me, not only is our budget great and not to say powerful and powerful enough that we can bring all these projects to an end, it also encourages me that you are, in fact, the Minister for Environmental Protection and I am quite sure that you will achieve the best results in that area in the last 30 years. I want to congratulate you on your achievements so far. You have a very good start. That was a good start. You've got one great rhythm, and I'm appealing just to keep it up. You're tireless, that's for sure. Well, I am grateful to you as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and I am especially grateful to you as a Cachanian, because you have decided to invest and to do a significant project in the territory of the town of Cačka. It's Ovcar Banja. You see, speaking of Cačka, we have a politician in Cačka, Bosko Obradovica, a politician owned by tycoon Dragan Gilas, who now promotes green patriotism in his new political programme. Someone who was Serbian to live from Serbia, not Serbia, who advocated Orthodox values to live from Orthodoxism, not Orthodoxism, certainly does not live for green patriotism, because to live, his idea would have been, while he was here in parliament, that, as soon as possible, the storming of the lake in the valley of West Morava was carried out, it was Lake Medivhršje, i.e. in Medjugorje, which is the area of Ovcar Banja. It's a very expensive project, it needs significant resources. Be careful, Bosko Obradovic had the opportunity while in parliament to submit an amendment to the budget to ask for funds to be allocated to such an important project in the budget, but now he remembered, because he saw that this topic was convenient for drawing votes. So, he's dishonest in his advocacy. And we have the work already at the beginning of your term and it says that we are honest in our efforts and that money is not our religion, but that it serves the general good, or for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I just want to ask you, in the name of Chacan, what is the optimal time limit for such an expensive project, which is the smudge of Lake Međupršje to bring an end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4202	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4203	You're something quiet to me, I barely heard you, Mr. President. Anyway, thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished citizens, distinguished minister with associates, have been commended today for your work and I think they are fully founded. It's not possible if you don't do your job right. Surely you will not experience this level of praise in this House, or the Assembly, as one of my colleagues said. To be honest, you do quite relatively briefly perform the function we have chosen you to, but the results are already visible, and on that legislative plan, because here we have a serious legislative proposal ahead of us, but also in that operational sense when it comes to concrete work on the ground. These days the public's attention is rounding up this topic concerning the deposit in Prijepolje and its final resolution, and it wasn't just a problem for Prepolje, it's a problem for the whole of Serbia, if you want the whole region, because the dump next to Lima is an automatic problem and Montenegro, and then the problem of both Republika Srpska and then Serbia's problem again. It's a solution to a regional problem, not just a pre-pollution problem. In order not to remain unsaid, I have been in contact with the Mayor of Subotica, Mr Bakic, to find out that you are determined that in Novi Žednik, besides Sudotica, you are also relieving the deposit and are grateful for your support in such a business. I give you my regards from Subotica and the city of Subotica will certainly be your partner in this business. However, I must remind you, it's not the only wild dump in Subotica. In the village of Chantavir there is a decade-long problem of a wild dump. I know that in cooperation with the city authorities, you will go into solving and that problem. If we add to this whole story this legislative proposal that is being broken today in this House, the fact is that you are doing your job well and that the praises are justified, that the differences in the work of the Ministry in relation to all previous periods exist. But what can you expect? You will not go unpunished, you will be struck by those who do not want Serbia well. They will forgive you all, but work for Serbia and work for the people will not. Here, take a look at this on the case of the president of the state. Just as you are running this ministry today, where we feel for the first time serious shifts, for the first time in one serious concern for Serbia, we see the jobs that today's president is doing, and not only for Serbia, but also for the jobs that he is doing for our entire people in the Balkans. Of course, then it gives rise to criticism, and not only criticism, but the evil intentions of all those who are today and against the president and against Serbia, who are against the good of our entire people. You'll expect to face it, too. The most difficult hits on the president, of course, are coming from criminal circles today, and even come from certain regional politicians. You may have seen, dear colleagues, the other night when an open attack on the president of the state from the politicians there took place at the public media service RTCG and no one reacted. Do you think it's an accident? No, because Serbia is stronger, because the president is working for his people in Montenegro for the first time. Supporting these people who are doing this from these regional centres were domestic politicians headed by this man who is again the subject of these days, Gilas, who is a proven opponent of this country and of this people. Dear Minister, I just wanted to draw your attention to this fact that because of this job you're doing, you will face similar problems and similar criticisms, but you will also have allies in this House. You continue to work, to clean Serbia, we will help you, as we will help the president to work, helps our people in Serbia and our people in the region and to clean, too, Serbia, but from criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4204	Thank you. I don't know how you didn't hear me. Can you hear me now? (Milimir Vujadinovic: You are now heard. You know what, I apologize, these two, three days I haven't been there all the time because I've had a parent in my family, so I want to apologize to everyone. So now little Lenka has overshadowed my role in parliament, but we're moving on. Thank God, everything was fine. Let's move on. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, the honourable minister, Mrs Vujovic, with co-workers, above all, at the very beginning of my speech, I would like to say that these amendments will complement the same good law on climate change that lies ahead of us and the law that we successfully discussed on Tuesday. I think that some fellow MPs today have also used their right and opportunity to discuss and to explain what this law will bring and how much these amendments we are now discussing will complete this law. Mrs Vujovic, I am convinced that you will continue as you started to successfully perform the minister's function, but I am also confident that the attacks you have experienced in the previous period will not be the last. Certainly not the first, but knowing that our political insinuation today is the only force they see in how stronger, more rude and more recklessly offend anyone who doesn't think like them, I'm confident and that the attacks you've been exposed to lately are not the last. When we talk about attacks, it is noticeable that there is no topic, law, decision or whatever was found on the Assembly's agenda that it was not the subject of any dispute and that those people who led Serbia until 2012 did not find any objection. It is interesting that while they were the government of nothing on this issue and did not do so, and now in every decision voted in parliament, they find some kind of error, trying to minimize its importance and to politicise each issue. It is particularly interesting that as we got close to March 12th and the application of the Law on Evidence of Origin of Assets, so the anxiety grew. My colleagues and I have talked for weeks and months earlier about the need for this law and that it must be applied equally to all officials, to all politicians no matter what foreigners belonged to, but apparently those people who do not sleep peacefully, because they know that they are rich at least in a suspicious way, with their anxiety, hysteria, and increased attacks on unsanitary people, and today we have seen the latest attack on journalists they consider unsuitable, they go to these limits that even the MPs in this House are determined, banned or selectively allowed or taken for evil by what they discuss and speak of. Today I have the right to ask a question and ask for information as a MP to be used by the competent institutions, the government or anyone whose domain includes financial malfeasances that he has committed, apparently, Dragan Gilas. However, on one of his televisions under his direct administration, it is characterized as not knowing what kind of attack and abuse of a pay phone. I understand that everything that we say here scares them, because we are telling the truth, because that is how we expose everything that Dragan Gilas did during his time in power, but I can't understand that, in addition to constantly inviting us to the Codex and for measuring every word and sentence, it's just so hard for them to even learn part of the Rules of Procedure and to realize that the MP has the right to use this speaker and to ask for an answer to a question or any information. What is particularly problematic is the fact that the opinion of journalists, the question of journalists, is not worth the same to Dragan Gilas in one situation and another. We're used to it that for him and his followers of our family and our lives aren't as important or as important as theirs, and it's absolutely unacceptable, but somehow when you suffer threats every day and when you're a daily object and Satanization and criminalization somehow Google it. Today, it has been announced that all of us who have been talking about the Mauricios affair are going to get such terrible evidence that I don't know what kind of fraud it is, that I don't know what fictional data or imaginary banks are, and in the end, it's all down to a monologue of a man who's once again acting badly and with a narrower and quieter voice trying to justify himself. I don't know what will happen in the coming days, but I see that the investigative journalism of a part of the journalist who is not suitable for Dragan Gilas shows some new results, so it seems to me, today or tomorrow in the day, that some of the accounts in Hong Kong or Hong Kong depend on how they interpret it or Vuk Jeremic, or Dragan Gilas, only when they agree. It seems to them Hong Kong is a common denominator, just like DS. It seems to me that by following the money path of Dragan Gilas, we can play interesting geography and get to know those destinations, locations and those paradise islands that we may have only heard about in geography lessons or from some quiz shows or maybe movies. I am only interested in what we will explain to the EU, representatives who care about the rights of journalists, the situation that took place today at a conference where people who have come only to ask a question called liars, called ordinary citizens who have been released to his mercy in the premises of the Freedom and Justice Party. What about the fact that they're threatened to answer? Beware, they are told threats, and you will answer for all that you do. Does this mean now that journalists who have presented this evidence and who work for "evening News" and who have dealt with investigative journalism, when walking with their families have to look around and take care of their own safety? Today's conference also served to hear that Dragan Gilas will not go on a polygraph, as well as many who these days avoid proving the truth on a polygraph when they have the chance. That group of people also joined Dragan Gilas in words – should I go to this Vucic polygraph, a polygraph that he made. I didn't hear any more nonsense because I don't know how Vucic could have made a polygraph, but I am convinced that it is clear to the citizens that apart from the naked lies and the lies that he makes every day, Dragan Gilas has nothing else to offer to the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia, and that in the coming days we will realize at all how much wealth it is and how much money he has. What is particularly interesting today, none of the media that are directly under his administration and command found fit to ask him any questions. Neither did those investigative journalists he defends, proclaims them heroes, so brave, they didn't show up to give him any questions. It all came down to it -- I know what's true, you're lying, and to give you evidence I won't and I don't care. The conference ended by turning and leaving, and the questions were very simple, which he could answer without any prior preparation or any kind of check to remember, because the wealth was huge, so they just asked him if it was true that in 2018, he reported that he was the owner or co-owner of 26 companies. He refused to answer that question. He also refused to answer whether he would ever decide to prove everything he was saying on the polygraph. As things stand, I am convinced that in the next few days, if not weeks, we will discover which other 15 locations are spoken of when talking about the enormous wealth that this man has, but I am confident and that both Vladimir Orlic and Mr Aleksandar Martinović and Sandra Christmas and Prof. Atlagic, anyone who dares to talk about these things once again goes through a "hot rabbit" media or on social networks where anyone who retreats and talks about these things is being satanized and dragged through the mud. If all of this were not enough for them, they showed one of their most morbid accounts by threatening our party colleague to cut our hair. Again, interestingly, none of the institutions found themselves protecting her rights, primarily as women. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Dear Minister Vujovic, I wish you many successes in the coming period. There are many challenges ahead of you, unfortunately, in such a situation as all of us, not only do you deal with your work in environmental matters and not only do you deal with such good things and laws that have been away from us for light years until some year 2012, but you will have to fight on a daily basis and defend against the baseless attacks of those people who, at all costs, want to return to power, is that Dragan Djilas, is that Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic or this Bosko Obradovic, whom they have stepped up, seems to have fought in the meantime now. For Serbia and for all our children, "For our children" as our list is called, and such laws are beyond necessary and I hope that in the next period we will have the opportunity to have some other law of general interest for the citizens of Serbia voted here, because for Serbia there is no precedent for the politics of the Serbian government, but above all Alexander Vukic, from creating exactly the place that we all want for us and for the generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4206	Thank you. Minister Irena Vujovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4207	Dear People's MPs and MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thank you, above all, for this exhaustive discussion, about the amendments and thank you for the proposed amendments, given that they will significantly improve the law and its functioning. I would like to answer the MP's question about the Ovčar-Cablar ravine and everything that is happening in this area and in the beautiful and protected part of the country. First of all, I must point out that the Ministry has launched a procedure to expand this protected area and that we have done a draft regulation. We certainly fund this area from year to year. What's important is that the whole area is a matter of co-operation of several ministries. That's what we went with the prime minister to visit and discuss the promotion. What I can tell you today is that we just gave a subsidy to the Natural History Museum under the ravine, 20 million dinars. As far as lakes and smudges are concerned, it is certainly a large project planned to be done in the period until 2025. We still don't have the project documentation, and given the amount of funds needed to be allocated, which is somewhere around four billion dinars, we are certainly in negotiations for the financier. With that, the moment these negotiations are over, we are definitely going to do an impact assessment and project technical documentation study, and I hope that it will be within the shortest possible time to complete the whole project by 2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4208	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4209	We are today discussing three amendments to the law we discussed in principle on Tuesday, on the Climate Change Act. These three amendments are technical and are related to a more detailed determination of the subject matter, i.e. the material they treat. The very fact that the government and the competent ministry have accepted the amendment and that these amendments will become an integral part of this law speaks of the amendments as being meaningful. I said on Tuesday that we from the JS will support this bill in voting day because it is a good law that treats not only the present, but the future of our country. In fact, Francis Bacon said in his own time that nature would only be defeated if we obey her laws. I mean, every time a man thinks he can ignore the laws of nature, nature gives him a fierce return. Of course, in nature there is no retribution or punishment, but there are consequences and climate change caused by an anthropogenic factor are precisely due to excessive, excessive emissions of greenhouse gases, not some whim or revenge of nature. Of course, here I would quote a wise statement or the thought of the Red Cloud, Chief Sioux, the people who certainly knew they were living in harmony with nature, which is that when a man cut down the last tree, when he caught the last fish, when he polluted the last river, he would only realize that he couldn't eat the money. Of course, we here need to find some measure, some harmony between economic growth and development and conservation of the environment. We in the JS really believe that one of Serbia's most important priorities today is of course economic development and progress, but we also believe that preserving the environment is one of the priorities. We also believe that these two priority goals do not have to and should not be opposed to each other. This law is just about to create a legal framework, to ensure economic development without jeopardising the quality of the environment, but it also creates a legal framework so that by safeguarding the environment we do not stop and stop economic development. In addition to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions I talked about on Tuesday, one of the important elements of the fight against climate change is the preservation of the forest. Namely, forests are the largest consumer of carbon dioxide, the most represented gas with the greenhouse effect and, of course, the largest oxygen producers. After the desert, forests are the most represented ecosystem on our planet, in the land part of our planet. Today they occupy a space of about four billion hectares or 28% of the total land surface of our planet. As for Serbia, noise is about 29-30%, and the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia defines that it would be optimal around 41% of forest surfaces. What's important is that the research has shown that the noise of the forest, which is at our disposal and most represented, annually except that somewhere around 9.6 tons of dry mass per hectare, gives four tons of oxygen per hectare per year, and therefore it's very important to keep our surfaces under the forest. Of course, for years, decades and centuries back forests have been cut everywhere in the world, which for the purpose of creating new agricultural land, which for the purposes of heating, which for the purposes of building, etc., so that today around 16 million hectares of forest are cut in the world annually. Today in Europe, the forest complex has been reduced by 70%, Brazil by 40%, and, say, in the Philippines by 30%. Reading the travelogues of the ancient past through Shumadi, through Serbia, where they said that the days of caravans pass through the woods and you can't see the sun from dense crosses, we are aware that today this situation is not so and that it is necessary to take care of the preservation and expansion of the forest fund. Perhaps somewhere in the United Serbia, we also see a chance through shaming, not only through the shaming of what is obligation and what is doing "Serbishum" and state, but through some kind of social activity. Unfortunately, I have to notice that today's social activists tended to shrink exclusively to political activity, and in that sense, unfortunately, we move up, reconnaissance movements and environmental movements have become increasingly less and more and more frequently transformed into political organisations, that is, instead of social activistism, which is only part of this social activity. In that sense, Minister, it might not be a bad idea for your ministry in collaboration with, for example, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development to take some action to encourage schools to establish and organise students and students in those of us well-known scouts, to create some environmental sections and organizations and to deal with shaming. But we really wouldn't have an effect just by sniffing our surfaces, but rather by increasing that ecological awareness among our young generations, among the students. We all need that environmental consciousness over the top if we see images and scenes that we can see at the time of the flood or after the flood of our rivers, on dams, where we see a bunch of waste, plastic bottles, etc. It's not just carbon dioxide one of those greenhouse gases, there's methane. It is produced not only by burning fossil fuels, it occurs in unsettled dumps, in agriculture, and in many other ways it is broadcast into the atmosphere. Because education dumps by some of the most modern technologies are very important for the reduction, among other things, and the emissions of methane, we, for example, in Jagodina 2008, in collaboration with Porr made a regional deposit in the location of Gigos, the capacity of 1.5 million tonnes of waste and thus significantly improved the economic situation not only in Jagodina but in the whole region. We won't stop there. We are now planning to remove the old dump, which is located near the suburbs of Jagodina and thus make Jagodina an ecologically good environment. We also have a wastewater treatment system that we will now improve because of our limitations, so we are really trying as an environment to improve the quality of the environment for it to be at one European level. Ecology implies that we live in harmony with nature and that we cultivate and preserve nature and natural laws. As for these greenhouse gases, I have to notice that in Serbia, about 900,000 tonnes of food, for example, is a year's disposal of 500 thousand tonnes, and that this food, that food waste, makes at the annual level of greenhouse gas emissions as much as it makes in a year and six to seven thousand motor-powered vehicles. Ecology is indeed an important topic of today, not only in the world but also in ours, and because of the importance of this topic, because of the importance of this law, because of the quality of this law, we in Unique Serbia will also support this law in the day of voting, in which these amendments we are talking about today, so that you count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4210	Thank you. The National MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Prof. Dr Ljubisa Stomirović, Arpad Fremond, Jasmina Karanac, Branimir Jovanovic, Gojko Palalić, Tijana Davidovac, Marko Parezanovic, Milja Miletić, Bratimir Vassiljevic, Petar Vesović, Marija Jevdić, Boris Bursaić, Bosiljka Srdić, Dr. Vesna Ivković, Sanja Jefić Branković, Natasa Jovanovic, Bojan Torbica, Milan Urosevic, Samir Ćosović, Nevena Veinović, Vladimir Grahovac, Tomislav Janković and Vesna Krisanov together submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On behalf of the promoter, there's a thing called Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4211	Thank you, Chairman. Before I explain this amendment, I just want to say that all day long instead of answering the origin of the money, we have threats, the most creepy threats to Serbian President Alexander Vukic, and I call on the citizens of Serbia, since we are discussing the Climate Change Bill, to just consider how many sewage networks, how many recycling centres, how many water-processing plants could be built from money that, if determined, was abducted by Serbian citizens? As regards the proposal for an amendment submitted by a group of MPs to Article 15(2), the deadline for reports on adaptation measures to be submitted to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for changed climate conditions for those sectors and systems in which adverse impacts need to be reduced. There are two reasons why we asked for this deadline to be extended. The first is because these adaptation measures can be different. Depending on the area, somewhere you need to maintain and restore wet habitats, somewhere you need erosion control, somewhere you need to sniff out, somewhere you need more time for the embankment. Another reason is that for most measures it takes a longer period of realization and a real deadline. The environment ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia have realised that extending the deadline is necessary and it is important to have a realistic deadline. I believe the MPs will also accept this amendment to the group of MPs in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4212	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. There's still time at your disposal for an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4213	I thank Dr. Orlic. Dear Minister, as before and in the past, we have always talked about the problem of our small environments and all those things that touch us from southeastern Serbia. You as Minister have proven yourself backwards these few months how strong you are, how you do your job responsibly. Many times, my colleague from my MP club, Mr Samir, said something had been done in Prijepolje that hadn't been done in 50 years. It is a great commendation for you, for your team at the ministry you work in, and I am sure we will have the opportunity for our country Serbia to be what it is, a country of prosperity, a country of good for life. That's what we're going to do, I'm sure, the moment we provide the same conditions of life for all our people living in southeastern Serbia, for all of our people living in small areas. I am from Svrljig, I think it would be good to do certain things with us, normal and surrounding municipalities next to Svrljig, there is the Pantelej municipality, where my fellow MP, Bratimir Vasiljevic, spoke yesterday about the problems of the municipality, about things that are good to do in the municipality of Panteleus for the city of Nis, where he talked about some of the investigative things that Pantelej municipality received to do, these are heat sources. I think it would be a good idea for all of us together, who are in the territory of southeast Serbia, together with you to work on all the things that are in our problems, to put all of this on paper, on the project, and to apply together to the ministry, and I'm sure we'll end a lot of things. As far as the city of Nis is concerned, the city of Nis is the most beautiful city in Serbia, because, besides my municipality, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, when I say so. I am sure that together we will succeed, together with you, with our government, together with our president, Mr. Vukic, we will have the opportunity to make our country Serbia the most beautiful country in the world. That's for sure, we're all working on it, but before we do, we need to get rid of certain things. These problems that have arisen since the previous period, which are the negative things that were up until 2012, where previous ministers, where previous representatives have done something that is bad, have done some tricking work, that's what we say, in my neighborhood. The accent is what it is. They're right where they are now. Now they can criticize what they're doing, but the result of all this is that there's a lot of progress, there's a lot of better things and there's a chance of doing even more. In our country's programme, in the programme that he predicted and talked about, our President, Mr. Vukic, 2021–2025. For years, there will be a lot of things to do as far as water supply, wastewater treatment, sewage management in our villages and in our border areas. Here, that's what it's all about. From the municipality where I come from, we need to finish and waste water, we will do so together with our country, along with our government. I'm sure it'll be done. After that we solve problems and asbestos pipes, it's a water line that was built back in the '70s and '80s. We'll be able to do that and hopefully we'll be able to consider some things together. The municipality, like the municipality from which I come, has a future because it was given to God, to have tourism. Over the Municipality of Svrljig goes nearest to the Old Mountain. The town of Nis is something that deserves great attention and our country, our president in the previous period has put a major emphasis on the development of the town of Nis, Nisov County and the southeast of Serbia. I point out the needs of our agricultural producers, the people who live in the country and from the village, to provide them with some of the same conditions, and as we said, it is necessary to do a sewerage network in many of our villages. It'll be in some future, but that's what we all want to do together. I know the problem is with some dumps that were done the way they shouldn't, but we have to solve it now. I am sure that together with you at the head, with our ministry, and with you as minister, together with our mayors, the presidents of the municipalities, we will solve the problem of the dump, solve the problem of everything that is bad, and the result will be that as many tourists as possible will come to keep our people living there and that normally we can all enjoy the beauty of our country Serbia, in the beauty of southeast Serbia, normally in the beauty of our villages in Serbia. Once again, I would like to thank you for accepting this amendment from our Green Parliament Group. We're all together, and it would be good, my colleague Bratimir Vasiljevic wanted to say a few things, so I don't know, I mention his name more than once, are you going to let him come forward and say certain things about the town of Nis and the municipality of Panteleus, because it's a need to hear everyone, that we who are here want to work in the interest of all citizens regardless of whether they live in Svrlig, Nis, White Palanca, Gajino Han, whether they live in Prepolje or in Subotica. Thank you again for accepting our amendment, and I invite you to visit the most beautiful municipality in Serbia when you have time, and that is the Svrljig municipality. We'd be very happy to.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4214	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. If you're actually asking me if I see who's registered in the electronic system, let me see. The list has just been deleted, Mr. Mihailo Jokic is the first to follow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4215	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I will speak something others haven't spoken of all the time. I'll talk about quarrys. To enforce this law and all laws, money is needed, and I think the money is in the possession of the quarry, that the quarrys are huge contaminants and that they destroy the infrastructure, it's clear to everyone. What compensation do quarry owners pay to the state today? So you and the Ministry of Finance, with the Tax Republic Administration, need to jointly consider the obligations that quarryes have towards the state. They pay every three months for the books they run, which no one examines. On the other hand, they pay property tax to cities and municipalities, and the value of these assets is multiplied by 0.4 and also by the accounting values they have. The third obligation they have, and for which you are directly responsible, is an eco tax. It is my opinion that the quarrys are under-loaded and that there is room in the joint action to find the money and that the quarrys are being extra burdened. On the other hand, quarryes in the vicinity of Valjev, you now go on a journey, say from Valjevska Loznica to Ub or to Lykovec, about two kilometers away you have five quarrys. The first question is, under what conditions do they make that exploitation? First, in what state do trucks go out of the quarry on a highway, say, a highway that leads to Ubu or leads to Lykovec? Heavy mud and sand are taking the road and endangering traffic. They should be washed before they get on the road. Another question I ask, how do you transport a stone, a millstone in relation along the highways? Do you need trucks or shouldn't be covered in tarp? The stone dust, the minister, is the biggest and most dangerous contaminant. So they just have to look at one, tax burdens that have quarryes. There's a big profit. Two, set up the conditions under which the quarrys are exploited, and how do they safely destroy the infrastructure, and how do they have to make up for it? We need to get on the ground and record this situation. Now, in the other part, you know Valjevo is one of the most polluted cities, I mean the third in Europe. This year, March 12th was the worst day, somewhere I think 138.37 micrograms per cubic metre of MP10 particles were, and the norm was 40. We have a heat problem. The heat is partly on the gas. It's got to be completely on the gas. That's where the Republic needs help. We have a heat problem in Krusik. Krusik doesn't have enough resources right now to move that heat that's on the mule to the gas. On the other hand, the heat we have serves 15% of the population in Valjevo. To be rational, to have a function, that percentage is insufficient. Citizens need to be helped. A catastrophic mistake was made when that heat was formed. There were other people in power, not to accuse these yellows, etc. So, very strict conditions have been set, i.e. a large price was given to join someone in the heat. My opinion was, at the time, I represented the opinion that the connection must be free for the citizens. However, high conditions are set, high price. Citizens couldn't pay for it, so we got into a situation where a small number of households in Valjev were attached to the heat. To solve all these problems... We also have a problem with the deposit in Kalenić. The dump in Valjev is constantly in trouble and has been politically abused several times. So that I don't owe and talk about all the problems now, because Valjevo is on that blacklist, I ask you on behalf of the citizens of Valjevo to come to Valjevo, to look at this whole situation and to help us, because Valjevo without the help of the Republic cannot solve those problems. And once again, I ask you to look at the quarrys, that's where the money lies, but which you cannot solve alone, but you must also call the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. So much for me and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4216	Thank you. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is 29 minutes. I deleted the list. The Minister applied for the word. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4217	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, I am pleased to talk about the town of Valjevo, since one of the first tasks was mine when I led the Ministry to look at all the burning problems and certainly Valjevo is one of them, and when we talk about air pollution and when we talk about the dump. Therefore, we have taken steps and can say that the management of the city of Valjev is responsible for these problems and according to the latest information they have just competed in a competition that was intended for the air pollution and reduction of the same, to a contest that the Ministry has called and we have allocated significant funds to replace this very second boiler in the city's heat. So I come to Valjevo safely as soon as possible, because we are waiting for the signing of the contract, and I ask you, as well as other citizens of Valjev, to be responsible, and you to draw attention to the importance of having citizens join the new boiler that will be on the gas, in order to reduce the air pollution. As for Krusik, we know the problems, we talked to the Ministry of Defence in the coming years, and I hope for a year or two to solve this problem, but certainly by replacing the city's boiler, we will significantly reduce pollution in the city of Valjevo. As for the dump, as I have spoken all these days and the day before here in the National Assembly, Kalenić "Colubara" is one of the first projects to be implemented through the European Bank's funds for reconstruction and development. So, it's done intensively on project documentation. The consultants are involved. I think the first prepared region is just Valjevski, i.e. Kolubara Kalenic. So I hope that the projecting will be completed at the end of the year and that 2022 will be able to begin. The first topic, related to quarryes, certainly there are truths in what you've been saying, but the ministry itself is conducting an environmental impact assessment, for every future quarry and all that exists, but they belong to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, so that's their resolution ministry. As for transport and the precautionary measure when we talk about the transport of stone and all that, we need to talk to the Ministry of Transport, in order to strengthen the measures in accordance with your suggestions, and we are certainly already working on it, because the topic of quarryes in recent days is extremely present, and we will try to make sure that everything that is up to us and to the Ministry is checked once more and we are seriously looking at every impact assessment study submitted in the Ministry. So everything has to be strictly by law, just for security reasons, and also for the preservation of environmental protection, which is most important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4218	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a large part of our citizens thinks that ecology is just planting trees. With that in mind, the best time to plant trees was 20 years ago. The second best time to plant trees is now. So I recommend to all those who follow this transmission that everyone who is in that position, and I am, plant at least one tree at a time. With that in mind, along our paths there were woodlands with windscreens. It's all been cut. This significantly disrupts the quality of air, and it is also important that more settlements are not protected from wind, garbage, or garbage on the roads, as these woodworks are usually planted next to regional and local traffic. I think it's time we passed the law to punish those who unauthorizedly cut those trees and to commit them in a certain way to this land that they usurped as public property and turned them into fields into public property, and even if they did, they had to plant the trees that went missing along those roads. I know one from Belgrade who dealt with the green economy, and to that end, he cut off over 300 platans in King Alexander's Boulevard. It's a certain treewood, in a people known as Dragan Đilas mutibaric, so which turned the green economy by thinking when there's a lot of green dollars that he's mastered and perfected the green economy himself. It's about going back to the farm and going back to the Indji where I live. This is the second time I repeat in a few days that the Lead Accumulator Recycling Factory during the reign of Oliver Dulic and Goran Jesic was erected in India on a regional waterway, i.e. above the water wells from which Inji and the surrounding area are supplied with drinking water. Waste water from that fuel plant for recycling lead batteries that were moved from Bulgaria from one rural area to Serbia, because they were not good enough there, but within a mile and 200 metres of airways from Sainta to Indjia on waterways were obviously similar during the yellow government, waste water went into a random canal because they were not allowed to release into the sewers that would be poured into the Danube, caused probably the fish's death and would have been caught very quickly. That's why it was dug above the water wells, so-called. And then every bird that comes in is flying to drink some water from that splinter canal turns very quickly dead. Also, in Indija "Energo Zelena", "Energo Zelena" our country expensively paid to the Belgians because during that investment, Micovic, director of the Veterinary Authority Oliver Dulic, made us have enough slaughterhouse waste for that factory and that we have enough slaughterhouse waste for another factory which served as a motive for the Belgians to collect that investment expensively, so that every euro spent is spent with one dozen euros. The investment was not only Belgium, Nebojsa Misic, DS official Oliver Dulic, Goran Jesic and the team took part in the investment, so they gained huge profits from this environmental pollution. The slaughterhouse waste is one of the most dangerous wastes, and this factory has never, by my standards, met the necessary conditions because it's terrible to live five kilometers away from the processing of slaughterhouse waste, let alone live nearby. Also, “Farmina” that deals with the processing of various waste, plant waste of corn, etc., and hence produces pet food is significantly polluting the air and its scent, an unsustainable smell of contributions to the population and how irritable against this authority, which is not responsible for the fact that the polluters have emigrated DS officials before 2012. And they moved in because the polluters paid the best land for the location of these companies, and so they took over the country from the cooperative, registered to their firms, and then sold to investors, and for example 46 dinars or less than half euros managed to sell it at a price of 10 to 20 euros. The motive was to resell land, and now we have several contaminants left in our inheritance, I forgot to mention "Cinkarna", and think about how many of these polluters they brought to India without any direct need. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to talk about the management of harvest remains in the fields because instead of using the environment, they significantly endanger the environment, because much of it because of light orations, a large part of the agricultural areas, farmers fall down to make it easier to process land, and thus significantly disrupt the quality of land, destroying micro-organisms, endangering the smoke of surrounding traffic, and often resulting in car accidents, and unwarranted and the one that burns ends up among the burning harvest remains. This is a huge loss not only of damage to the environment, but because it can be produced from agriculture, it can produce a total energy-changing energy value of 1.7 million tonnes of oil. Not using and not using wood biomass and waste also contributes to destroying 1.5 million tonnes of oil annually, or energy value. Each ton of biomass gives 0.33 tons of oil. It's an energy value, and you all know it. What can be good and useful, to use environmental protection, and that ecology is not only about biology and planting trees, but also about business. What can bring you profit and not harm the environment we don't use enough. We have 350,000 hectares of abandoned agricultural land, we created legal opportunities, Mr. Martinovic, a few years ago, when this would have been intended, it would have been worth about seven hundred million euros and those 3.2 million tonnes of oil at some price and a medium per barrel and a ton would have brought about a billion euros. We lose 1.7 billion euros a year, not using harvest scraps and scraps of wood mass, without using 350,000 hectares of unused land, we lose 1.7 billion euros, not using it, and in doing so, we are putting the environment at risk. You can see, in the fall when the corn harvest is over, that almost all of Vojvodina from satellites when you watch, the whole of Vojvodina is red and yellow huge amounts of smoke coming out and often comes to large cities. With this energy value you can produce electricity, you can produce 350,000 hectares of kilowatts, and all for this 1.7 billion, for unused wood mass, for unused agricultural residues and unused land, you lose energy value, or we lose energy value. If we turned it into electricity, it would be somewhere megawatts how much it gives out of 175 megawatts would be as much electricity as it gives a little more than it gives TNT in Obrenovac, TE Nikola Tesla, and it gives a total of 1700 megawatts. So we're losing one coal-supply thermo power plant, and we're even more threatening the environment by not using it enough. I often say that we are basically rich poor people, that we can't take advantage of what they use, say in Germany and so on. Imagine we plant a miscantus on these 350,000 acres, make it a biomass, make it energy. Ladies and gentlemen, all this agriculture that, as a environmental polluter, returns through floods, returns through droughts and storms, therefore, does not want nature to take revenge on us, but rather because of what people do to nature. At the end of one proverb, I think that's what the Indian chief said, and I'm going to add that one nation does not only the present generation but also the last and the future, and with that, I'm going to quote it and it says that we didn't just inherit land and nature from our ancestors, grandparents, but we borrowed it from future descendants. That is why we are obliged to leave the land and nature to them in a better condition than we have found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4220	Thank you. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is 18 minutes. The word has a folk letter, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4221	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and colleagues, we have been discussing this law here for two days now and if it is to be judged according to the presentations of the MPs who in their own way pointed to environmental problems and presented a view of the solution to environmental problems and if it is judged by what this Government has done, this law has referred to the National Assembly for adoption and consideration, then it is freely said that environmental protection is high on the list of priorities of this government. I hope that you will accept the suggestions you have heard here, although there have been many on many topics, but I believe that in your mandate you will have the strength to face and to deal with these problems. What I consider and appeal is that immediately after this adoption, the adoption of this law begins in its application. It is the amendment submitted by a group of MPs gathered with the Green Parliament Group that concerns the implementation of the programme of this law, i.e. the implementation of the adjustment programme, that is, Article 15, and this is just one technical amendment. The bill stated that the authorities and organisations responsible for implementing the adjustment measures were required to provide the Ministry with a report on the measures implemented as well as concepts such as floods, extreme temperatures, droughts and other consequences. However, it has been left out, or it is not clear enough whether autonomous provinces and local self-governments should report. We have proposed the amendment to include the concepts: the autonomous provinces and local self-government that you have accepted, and I think it is good, which will become an integral part of the law that we, hopefully, will soon adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4222	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Bosiljka Srdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4223	Thank you, Chairman. I will talk about the amendment to Article 15. – realisation of the adjustment programme. From an existing member, it is not clear enough that AP and local self-government should report on the implementation of the programme. It also gives the impression that a report on the implementation of the adaptation measures is needed by March 15th in the first year following the adoption of the programme, which is practically not feasible. For this reason, the amendment proposes that this report be the first time in two years after the programme was introduced. The Climate Change Act should contribute to the establishment of a system for the mitigation of these changes, and on the other hand, what is important in the spirit of this amendment to the already changed climate change. The damage in Serbia measures billions of euros, and the fact is that our economy is growing, but it is important that money from the budget is not spent on the consequences, but on prevention, and it is in the environment and in health care. Due to data from medium-month temperatures and rainfall from meteorological cells, results show a pace that changes climate in our country. What these measurements tell us is that the temperature has increased by two degrees in Serbia's territory in the last 30 years. The change in climate is not only seen in temperature change, but also in rainfall, and especially in the seasonal redistribution of rainfall intensity. The disordered fallout regime indicates an increasing risk of flooding during the spring and autumn months and an increasing risk of drought during the summer. Surely we all remember the catastrophic floods in 2014, in Belgrade in 2019, and in the city from which I come, in Kikinda, it is more and more common that certain parts of the city are flooded, houses, infrastructures are certainly damaged, and crops are destroyed. The drains weren't designed to see so much rain, but they weren't even maintained. The entire infrastructure was created during the period when other climate conditions were and now they have been completely changed and we certainly need to take care of that. This increase in temperature, the disturbed fallout regime may not seem so bad to someone, but it certainly carries consequences that can be very serious, and they are more frequent and longer during the warm days and the dry season, an increase in the risk of floods, more frequent forest fires, reduced yield of agricultural products, and certainly quality, and we must not forget that agriculture is still a factory under the sky. The poor quality of drinking water certainly and air, and we also have an increase in electricity during the summer period and unfortunately all of this affects and poses a great risk to people's health. One of the exits, which I would point out, is certainly shaming, as the simplest and cheapest way to fight climate change. I am proud to point out that from November 2019 to January 2020, 34 thousand trees were planted, i.e. from 2014 when the Serbian Progressive Party came to power and by 2020, the territory of the city was richer by about 95,000 trees. We will certainly not stop there, we will continue to resume, that is, the creation of green oasis and wind parks, which is very important for Vojvodina, Banat. This will improve air quality and will certainly have a positive impact on human health. It is a very important law, and I would say about a roof law that requires compliance with all other sectors, portfolios in the government, and how much information I have done, and I will certainly also say about this important law and amendments that will supplement the law today in the voting class vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4224	Thank you. The National MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stoimirović, Arpad Fremond, Jasmina Karanac, Branimir Jovanovic, Gojko Palalić, Tijana Davidovac, Marko Parezanovic, Milija Miletić, Bratimir Vasiljevic, Petar Vesović, Marija Jevdić, Boris Bursaić, Bosiljka Srdić, Dr. Vesna Ivković, Sanja Jefić Branković, Natasa Jovanovic, Bojan Torbica, Milan Urosevic, Samir Ćosović, Nevena Vejnović, Vladimir Grahovac, Tomislav Janković and Vesna Krisanov together. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. In the name of the proposed thing, the National MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4225	Thank you, Chairman, colleague Orlic. In line with the obligations arising from the Convention, the Environment Ministry is preparing a two-year report and the Report of the Republic of Serbia under the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Since according to the rules of the Paris Agreement, the two-year updated report, starting in 2021, becomes only a two-year report, we have proposed to delete the word "scheduled" in Article 65 of the amendment, because if we leave an old name, meaning, the Two-year updated report, this could cause a lot of procedural problems at a later stage when such documents with a new name are delivered for adoption. I think the objective of this amendment has been achieved, because it is about the need to point out the periodicity of reporting, not the name, which the Government has accepted. I am taking the opportunity to invite fellow MPs and MPs to vote on this amendment in the day of voting in order for this technical but very important matter to make this amendment an integral part of the proposal for climate change laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4226	Thank you, Proposers. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4227	Thank you. Another amendment that we have submitted together from our Green Parliament Club, the amendment of technical nature, but an amendment that will allow some things to happen more easily. I was just talking about all those problems that we had and that we had to solve, but right now I'd like to say something that's very important, dear minister, it's about the radioactive thunderstorms that we have in the areas of the city of Nis, the municipality of Alexinac, the municipality of Svrlig, there are another twenty, where in the previous period we've been trying to find solutions to solve these radioactive lightningheads in the best way. That's what's left to solve. We haven't been able to solve it because in the place where those thunderbolts were stationed were once social firms that were in the privatisation process... These people can't pay for it now, because it requires certain means. That goes for us in my community, so I'm in Srlig, that's for the city of Nis, that's for the Alexine, and there's a couple more of those thunderbolts. I know we have to deal with this because it concerns both environmental, health and environmental issues. I think we're going to have to solve a lot of things that haven't been done in the past, but you're here to work it out with your Ministry. In this, the greatest involvement must be that there are local self-governments, along with their authorities, that we work coordinatedly and that it is resolved for the well-being of all our citizens who live in these places, who want nature to be as friendly to them as possible, but that is why we have to protect nature. Just now, Mr. Risticevic said a lot of things about these kinds of energy that we can use in agricultural crops, biomass and all that. That's what you need to do. I know that certain indications are starting to heat up on the so-called so-called. It's a cut. These are natural products we have to use. It's in our plan and in my community where I live. I heard there were plans to do something like that in Nis, in Pirot, in those environments, and we're trying to do it. That's how we protect nature and solve problems. Once again, I, as an MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will vote in favour of this bill, for these amendments. I think that's positive. I want to give you maximum support because you are doing it successfully and for the benefit of all citizens of our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4228	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word. The remaining time for the group is 13 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4229	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Orlic, respected Minister Vujovic with associates, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are on today's agenda amendments to the proposal for a law on climate change. During the debate these few days, colleagues and colleagues discussed the importance of adopting this law, and we decided this morning at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives on the amendments submitted. The very fact that three amendments of speech have been submitted confirms the importance of the adoption of this law. Minister Vujovic also spoke in the preceding days of the Climate Change Act, which has been announced for more than three years, since the first draft was prepared with the support of the EU. Climate change and environmental protection are global topics and we, whether we want it or not, are already facing and feeling certain consequences. The government of the Republic of Serbia, by submitting this bill, shows that environmental and climate change areas are high on the priority scale. You, Minister Vujovic, as a resolute minister, along with President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have shown that you are leading this country safely and responsibly, because Serbia has strongly defined that its future economic growth and development is based on innovation, green energy and the creation of new green jobs. President Aleksandar Vukic himself said when marking the KIM pogroms, I will quote, given that this is extremely important to say: "Serbia is no longer weak, nor a country of losers, a country that does not threaten, but does not forget, ready for talks, but not for humiliation, wants co-operation and compromise, but not for final solutions in which neither Serbia nor its people are present." The statement shows Serbia's clear commitment to protect its interests and make progress. It is clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that Serbia is progressing, but I think it is absolutely clear to no one why individuals with absolutely no basis threaten and spread the lies about the MPs of the Aleksandar Vukic Group – For our children, such as. Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, Sandra Bozic, Milenko Jovanov and others, not to list everything now, but also Vladenko Malovic, but also about you, Minister Vujovic. They are trying to make certain inconclusive statements dissuading the fight of all of us for a better future in Serbia, and that's fine. It's okay and the naka are talking, because what they're saying is the most about them. I personally mind, and I trust each and every one of us with violent behavior and vandalism. As Minister Vujovic stressed, it is a human factor that affects climate change and the environment, it is also a human factor that can work and work, to collapse the system of institutions. In this regard, I find it extremely important to mention what the Voždovac City Municipality, otherwise the municipalities from which I come, has sent me. The information is next, I'll show the photos and ask the director to help me get citizens to know the photos. This morning certain faces broke, broke again, glass in the rooms of MZ "Tjesic bathroom". This isn't just a hooligan procedure directed at state institutions. Here, here we see a broken window. It is also a process directed towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as free meals are shared in the premises of this local community. I've already said, this is the second time in a month that something like this is happening, and I'd like to commend the MUP, who, as soon as possible, acted upon the request and directed a patrol that made an insight. Personally, I believe that threats and attacks must not scare any of us and that we must continue to fight for a better future for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we have just most of the votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and have received confidence that we represent their interests today. That is why full support for you, Minister, and President Aleksandar Vukic and Vlada and all fellow Members of the People's Parliaments and People's MPs, who during the previous period were targeted by certain media and individuals who obviously do not want Serbia well. In the voting day, I will also support the proposal for a law on climate change, but also submit amendments, and I also call on colleagues and fellow MPs to do the same, as I believe this will further contribute to creating more favourable conditions for achieving the economic growth of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4230	Thank you. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is seven minutes. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4231	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, above all, the Honorable Minister, you have done more for the past few months than gentlemen from 2000 to 2020, means all ministers, and that's true. Well, in a few months, first of all, you cleaned up that mockery from the dump in Prepolje. It wasn't just clear to me how someone who lived there could have put up with it? A few kilometers from there is the Milesheva monastery with the most beautiful fresco in the world, which is protected by UNESCO and thank you for that, because I often stop at that monastery. Then, you're working on the expansion of the Regional Recycling Centre in Užica. Also, the transfer of stations to Nova Varosha is being built and just keep going. You have a very big job to do. Unfortunately, it seems that citizens of Serbia do not all love this beautiful country of ours, so they throw wherever they can and as much as they can. You have three-and-a-half thousand dumps and you will, I'm sure, in the next period and remove it, clean up the garbage, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has to clean up some other garbage -- crime, thieving, spinking. We have new spins every day. First of all, says Mr Gilas, the Republic of Serbia and its public debt is currently 54 billion euros. What? What 54 billion? Spin to hide his thieves, and we'll talk about them later. We owe 23 billion euros. Furthermore, the Republic of Serbia owes 11 billion euros to the People's Republic of China. How is he not ashamed? He forgot one decimal - 1.1 billion etc. Anyway, let's see about this latest hoax of his. I don't know who's who, what's who's who's who's who, how much money he's given, but let's see. Let's take it in a row. Dragan Gilas first sold his Darekt Media to CEE Media, a certain Bulgarian Krešimir Gergov, who among us is not known at all in these business circles, whom Dragan Solak lent 17.7m euros, and Dragan Gilas says he has nothing to do with Dragan Šolak, nor had he ever had in business or in any way. Okay, then let's move on. Mr. Bulgarian Gergov and his firm free of charge to Dragan Gilas to sell Dragan Gilas to Dragan Šolak 52m euros. Oh, come on, please, who's crazy here? This is a classic hoax. What's taken? Well, so you don't pay taxes in Serbia. Since Dragan Gilas was in power, it has not been repeated, his reign has been eight years, and in those eight years he has been rich a thousand times. So he had about 70,000 euros, and now he's got over 700. I'm sorry, that was until yesterday. Research journalism has determined by its research that some of its new companies around the world have been found, including in Luxembourg, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Mauritius and 17 destinations around the world, that the continent headed in Switzerland to Brother Gojk is around 700m euros, and that the continent is 5,741.025 euros in Mauritius. Is it possible? Well, how's that? So 619 million plus this, plus 17 destinations in the world. Aw, I think he'll definitely be the richest Serb. I guess he was in third place. Now it'll be convincing first. Let's move on. Gilas also owed his own party, remember, he bought a debt for 49 million dinars, in fact, bought for 38 million dinars, all the rest, he raised 18% of the interest, so here you go, devastated DS, and his godfather Marko Bastac, you remember him, the one who choked for his own godfather's money, their godfather, what? Money. Any, it didn't come back. Mrs Vujovic, we will be happy to support you and I am sure that in the voting day we will all vote for this excellent law, and you will have great happiness in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4232	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4233	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, we have witnessed that the world's industry has been growing and developing in the past 200 years. It uses fossil fuels, i.e. oil and its derivatives as its own resource and energy. The combustion of these derivatives has resulted in emissions of gases that in our atmosphere cause the effects of the glass garden, i.e. global warming of the planet, and therefore, without a doubt, climate change, whose witnesses and we ourselves have witnessed for the last decades in our entire country. Not only has the EU obliged us to pass such laws, nor the Treaty in Paris, nor the EU Framework Convention, but certainly the obligation of ourselves to pass such laws not only to preserve the environment for the healthy future of our children, but to breathe fresher and healthier air in our country. This law obliges us to monitor gases, such as carbon dioxide, such as methane, azotsuboxide, such as perfluorocarbons, sulphur hexafluoride, azotrifrid, as in flouorocarbons. These gases undoubtedly have a harmful effect on climate change, and I will present to you, in the case of my municipality Knić, how these climate change actually works with us. I will remind you, fellow MPs, of 2018, when, precisely because of climate change and huge floods, which have also been hit by the municipality of Knić, Kraljevo, the municipalities of Luciani and Trstenik, huge damages are done on this territory, not only in the health of people, but also in agriculture, forestry, water economy. A third of the territory of the municipality of Knić was just underwater, and the huge mud on our agricultural fields and land, the huge amount of rock that the stream was carrying, the destroyed roads, the Atar roads, the destroyed bridges, the emigration of the population, the moving cattle, the feces on our streets, the houses and households, are just one ugly picture left behind by all these lush floods, which are precisely the result of the climate change that we are suffering from. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, huge investments, the engagement of all the resolution ministries, we managed in just a few years to build over 93km of asphalt roads, over 300km of ataric roads, to restore six bridges that have just been destroyed by these devastating floods. We were able to arrange a riverbed of Georgia, which undoubtedly contributed significantly to these consequences. That took over 350 million dinars. Of course, the municipality of Knić is also investing in ecology today, along with your ministry and the Ministry of Infrastructure, the first wastewater treatment system, as well as 36km of sewage network, will be built in the coming period. It's not just Knic municipality in Šumadia. In Šumadia, we also have the town of Kragujevac, which is our large industrial center, which is also the university center. A new regional dump will be built in Kragujevac. Recently, we also have statements from our mayor that a 200-mile sewerage network will be built. Most importantly, the boilers in the heat will be replaced after 1975, when they were first made. This heat used coal, and today it will definitely use gas, which will significantly reduce the emissions of these gases. But today the state is ready to invest regionally evenly, especially in Šumadi and Kragujevac, also says the fact that significant factories have recently been built in this city, new investors have been brought in. I remind you that foreign investment in our country is the largest in the Western Balkans. Significant factories were built, definitely roads, railways. It was built and reconstructed, in progress, by a clinical centre supplying the population from Kragujevac to Pazar and Tutin. But most importantly, this city has been carrying an epithet of the valley of famine for many years. However, the picture we are sending today is a completely different picture. Certainly, the battle of Alexander Vukic and the SNS not only against the mafia, corruption, all the monsters that hit us, Kovida 19, but just the struggle to build the infrastructure, to restore life to our Forest, and certainly by passing such laws not only improve the environment, but all the beauty of our Forest God gave us and the greenery to preserve for future generations and generations. Thank you. Long live Shumadi, lived Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4234	Thank you. For our children, there is only time left for the authorised representative, which is Mrs. Beloica, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4235	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, the respected citizens of Serbia, today as the authorised representative for the SNS parliamentary group, I have the opportunity to conclude this debate, and of course, I cannot look back on the day-to-day political activities we have had the opportunity to see today. We had a chance to hear a really fruitful debate about the Climate Change Act. Of course I, along with my MP group, will accept this law, and I also appeal to my other esteemed colleagues to do the same. The Climate Change Act, as I pointed out two days ago, is one of the most important laws we have passed over the past period, and certainly we will gladly accept everything that leads to the improvement of the environment. Of course, this law leads to a reduction in the share of greenhouse gases to a level that does not lead to climate change from the point of view of the profession. The reason why the Climate Change Act is of paramount importance is that there is generally an increase in average temperature not only at Serbia's level, but also at global level, so I have already pointed out that there is one study that observes average temperatures from 1998 to 2017 and that says that the average temperature in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has risen from 0.5 to 1.5 degrees Celsius, depending on which part of the Republic of Serbia we observe. The anthropogenic activities, i.e. day-to-day activities of man certainly lead to certain climate change, resulting in changes in the amount of rainfall, floods, droughts, forest fires, which destroys agricultural holdings, which destroys forest eco systems, which, of course, is devastating when we talk about economic growth itself and our country's GDP. We are witnessing that agriculture, as one of the most important branches of the economy in the Republic of Serbia, has a very large share in the structure of GDP. I would once again take advantage of the opportunity to underline that the main objective of this law, in addition to reducing the amount of greenhouse gases, or GHG gases, is certainly the approximation of the international community, or the legal assets of the EU, because on our way to the EU, which is our strategic goal, is certainly Chapter 27, which is actually concerned with environmental protection. Of course, the law that we're about to declare today is of great importance, but I can't help but look back at everything that's been going on at this unsettling press conference today, you'll all agree with me. We had a chance to listen these days about where the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is hidden. Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we had the opportunity to hear where the money that was robbed by the former regime was for years. I'll remind you, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, just a few years ago there were people in power who couldn't provide even basic existential conditions for our citizens, let alone care about environmental protection. They took care exclusively of how to conduct suspicious privatisations, how to carry out various malfeasances, and how to fill their bank accounts. Well, here, for days, we've been facing all kinds of information about how money is actually in Mauritius, that it's in Switzerland, and we're getting new information that there are additional secret accounts in Hong Kong, believe it or not. My question as the average citizen of the Republic of Serbia is – whose money is hidden in these secret accounts? Is it the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and if it isn't, that we had the chance to hear today at this unsettling conference, what is it that you hide from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? I would like to order from this place on behalf of my MP group and in my personal name that you will not scare us with any threats, either to us personally or to the press. Because we are the ones who, in this high home, represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the same citizens who gave us support in the past elections, so over 60% of the citizens gave support to the SNS in the same choices the former regime couldn't even get out of because it was afraid of completely debacled. I think the press conference that we've had today has really revealed a lot more information than we have actually had and it seems to me that there is possibly another additional conference and that everything is going to be as clear as day. This way I want to appeal to the investigative authorities to define whose money it is, what the flows of that money are, and how the money has reached various exotic destinations all over the world. The public certainly deserves to know. You will never ban us from fighting for the truth, fighting for justice, fighting for the policy we believe in, and you will not hesitate to create a better and better future in Serbia for our children. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4236	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4237	I'll try not to use those three minutes, but just for a little while, for the end, I just have to share with you one last weekend experience. I didn't answer for a word today. My colleagues from the Single Serbia parliamentary group were very clear and said we would support this law. Of course, I congratulate the minister on the engagement she has shown and I have no doubt that she will continue at that rate until the end of this term. On Sunday, I had a chance, and yet it's about this topic, to clean up one river, a small river, you can say more than one stream. After about four and a half hours of serious work, I saw that I was doing Sisif's work, because as much as I was getting out of that river, the water that was coming and bringing in the garbage, there was always more garbage than I could get out of the river. And then so revolutionized, I turn to the president of the Assembly, the coalition partner from the SNS, and I tell him -- friend, we need to find some solution and some decision on how to fight this. We can't expect support from either the Republic or the Ministry, because these streams and rivers have untold numbers. He says, "What's the suggestion, what's to be done?" I say - we must consider these penalties. He says, "Listen, punishment already exists." Should we increase the sentence? Should we introduce the municipal police? Since my party is not in favour of the municipal militia, and unfortunately in Vranjska Banja we only have two municipal inspectors who are not enough to cover the entire field, we have found one compromise solution, and about this is -- to find a mechanism and a way to reward anyone who reports a person who throws garbage for one such application. I asked around, there is such a similar mechanism in Europe and it has produced excellent results. The best proposal I've heard here today from my colleagues is that we have to do as much as possible in the education of young people, because literally environmentalism is pure consciousness and the mirrored consciousness of the society in which we live. So we all have to fight together, not just by cleaning and planting, but by simply educating some new generations, and of course with similar ideas that I've just talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4238	Thank you, Mr. Vujic. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we've completed a search of all the amendments, and I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. I thank the minister and her team for their excellent work these days. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, March 18th 2021, with a start at 5:00 and 15 minutes as a day for voting on the agenda points of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-18-0.u4239	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 172 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. Before moving to the vote, I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and since the amendments submitted have become an integral part of the bill, the National Assembly will decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the draft climate change law to the vote, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 179 for – 175, did not vote - four. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on climate change. Second item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme between 2021 and 2025, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total – 179 for – 178, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has adopted the motion for a decision. Third item of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 of point 15, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, exercise electoral authority. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the president of the National Assembly, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. Total – 180, for – 180. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the correction submitted by the Parliamentary Group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total – 180, for – 179, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. The fifth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly Committee, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total – 180, for – 177, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. The sixth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group "The Justice and Trust Party – the United Peasant Party", in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total – 180, for – 177, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the Rules of Procedure of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Also, just to let you know and remind you that I called the next session on Tuesday, March 23rd, with four points of the agenda. The first item is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty (The Project for the Construction of Broadband Communication Infrastructure in Rural Areas) between Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the second point is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Joint Committee Decision on the establishment of a Common European Aviation Area, the third point is the Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of a Deputy Commissioner for Information From Public Meaning and Protection of Personality Data and the Fourth Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of a Judge to Be First Selected in a Judgeship. Thank you all for your presence and for your participation in the session.
