ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3622	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, you have before you the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office and which was decided by the High Council of the judiciary at its session on 2.2.2021. The High Judiciary Council announced the choice of judges for the Commercial Court in Belgrade, the Second Basic Court in Belgrade, the Kragujevac General Court, the Kragujevac Criminal Court and the Krusevec Criminal Court. Since the High Council of the Judiciary has established committees for the procedure of proposing candidates, and has carried out this procedure in terms of verifying the competence, ability and dignity of candidates in accordance with the Law on Judges and the Rules on the Programme and the way in which the examinations are to be assessed and the competence of the candidate who is first elected to the judicial office and has obtained an opinion on the competence, competence and dignity of the candidates, and all in the meaning of Article 13(3). The law on the high council of the judiciary, established the motion for a decision and proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the choice of 31st candidates by proposing to the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade for Judges: Daniela Milosevic, adviser to the Supreme Cassation Court, Borisvoje Miljkovic, adviser to the Supreme Cassation Court, Miloljub Miskovic, adviser to the Supreme Cassation Court, Danilo Grujic, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal, Bojana Bojić Morara lawyer, the Bar Association of Belgrade, Sandra Maric, judge assistant at the Court of Appeal and Biljana Krstajić, judicial assistant at the Court of Justice in Belgrade. For a judicial post in Belgrade's Second Basic Court, Vukadin Brajuskovic, the user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, Milica Goravica, user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, Luka Pantelić, judge assistant at the Higher Court in Belgrade, Jovana Živanović Stojic, judicial assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade, Nikola Djakovic, judicial assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade, Ljiljana Ilic, judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Sanja Vujisic, head of the Department for Administrative Law at the Judicial Academy. For judges at the Court of Justice at the Court of Justice in Kragujevac, the High Council of Justice proposed: Jelena Veljović, Judges at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, Angelo Djerasimović, Judicial Assistant at the Higher Court in Kragujevac, Marina Miloradović, Judge at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Milos Mirković, Judge at the Court of Justice in the General Court in Kragujevac, Marin Petrovic, Judicial Assistant at the General Court in Kragujevac, Sonja Popovski Zaljević, Judicial Assistant at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, Bojan Simonović, Judicial Assistant at the Court of Justice in the General Court in Kragujevac, Marina Luković, Judge in the Higher Court in Kragujevac, Zorica Jovanovic, Judge in the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, Bojan Simonović, the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice in the Court of the Kragujevac, Milejvić, the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice in the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the At the court's office, the Kragujevac Criminal Court proposed: Ivana Pavlovic, judge's assistant at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, Katarina Jankovic, user of initial training at the Judicial Academy. In the end, Jovica Vesic, inspector, the city administration of the town of Kruševec, was proposed for a judicial post in the Kraševec Criminal Court. Thank you for your attention. I have nothing left to do but ask you to support all the proposals of the High Council of Justice in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3623	Thank you. Are the reports looking for a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's Messenger and a Vice President, Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3624	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the appointment of judges is a procedural matter and it would probably be easier for us to put ourselves in place so that it would be a bureaucratic procedure that would somehow free us from the effort to prepare and hold speeches and discussions on this subject. Although this is a procedural matter, it is not possible to ignore or neglect the importance of the general appointment of judges, including the importance of elections and appointments of each judge in particular. Especially when the state and society are in an environment where it is very clear that the fight, and I will not go too far if I say the war against organised crime and the violence caused by this crime is not over. This further obliges us to deal with even more responsibly, more carefully and precisely with those state bodies that should be and which, according to their definition, information schedule, constitutional and legal jurisdiction, represent the first line of defence. The first line of defence of man as an individual, but also the defence of the entire community, that is, the entire society, and ultimately of the state order itself, which plays a role in ensuring the full freedom of rights and security of every citizen of this country. Therefore, in the coming minutes, I will present the views of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the People's MPs of this party, who will certainly support the choice of proposed judges with confidence and confidence that the procedure is fully respected, but that the MPs coming from the place from which these judges are proposed will give and have more information and inform us of their rights and real quality. The judiciary, the justice sector, is one of the pillars of maintaining a healthy society and preserving a human protection system in an individual and collective sense. Although a lot of speech on this subject puts us at risk of repeating, repetition is boring or may be boring, but when important things are also important topics then repetition, however boring it may be, plays a role of emphasis or focus on something that is of exceptional or special importance. Therefore, by risking myself to be one of those who repeats, I will still give priority to the importance of this topic, i.e. the justice itself, and the context and framework that I have mentioned. Certainly, as usual, a man can only speak competently and correctly about what he knows and can base his claims and grades and be made based on what he knows and what he has insight into. My experience with the judiciary is theoretically related to the entire area of the state, but it's even more important in the area where I live, i.e. The space of New Pazar and Sandzak. There is always a risk that the good actions carried out by the state, if in this case it is a fight against organised crime, as well as other good actions, are always the best realised in the centre, always the highest quality are executed and applied in the centre itself, or in the capital. It's usually the nature of the operation of every energy. Where that energy moves, it's the strongest, and it's some kind of epicenter of energy. But as we move away from that center, then that energy weakens with these cyclic circles. Therefore, if you look at the economic and development aspects and other aspects of this society, the arrangements and improvements of the state system, you will, as a general rule, find the effects and legality of the impact and operation of energy. So, the further you are from Belgrade, the more problems you will find, the more shortcomings, the more failures you will find. Therefore, the purpose of the existence of this Assembly in the structure of the MPs who come from all sides, is that, in fact, if we want to present our duties, or have full responsibility and do the work of the MPs, we should do the practice which is unfortunately, at least when it comes to the end of which, the MPs chosen by Novi Pazar or Sandzak or some other part, the peripheral part of this country, that as they are elected, or while they are in the campaign, say that when they come to Belgrade, after a few months, no more, they often become representatives of Belgrade in the area. They forget the direction they came from, that they should represent their people in Belgrade, that is, their people and voters in the National Assembly, not the National Assembly or Belgrade as some general concept in their area. So our insistence and the functioning of the Justice and Reconciliation Party is that we actually abolish such practice and the overall action that we had in the previous term, and this one is actually in that direction. Certainly, in order to maintain that course and to be consistent with it, it is necessary to monitor what is happening in these areas, in fact to be the voice of that people, or citizens, as well as to transmit the true diagnosis of that situation. In that context, I will not give up, no matter how many topics here are not explicitly current, no matter how much we face some big topics blowing off or putting into shadow some of the topics that come from the peripheries of this country, but I will not be calm and will not make peace with my children alone being well. Among other things, one of my personal motives, I'll share it with the public, to get into politics is that. Thank God, I had such a social social status that I could be selfish and stay out of politics and give only to my children an ambience of security and an ambience of prosperity, but my belief and my belief is that your family can't only be happy and well if your environment is unhappy and bad. I couldn't make peace with watching my eyes as a drug dealer in front of the school dealing drugs and a school cop turning his head and not seeing him dealing drugs. So I couldn't ignore that scene in my town and say, "I'm going to build the high walls of my house's yard and devote myself to my children and subdue my energy to them, I don't care what happens to that poor girl outside the walls of my yard." On the contrary, the very etemological basis of the concept of happiness is to meet, meet. So happiness isn't something that can be possessive, held to itself, it only comes true in encounter with others. Therefore, when a man rejoices and rejoices, when he has some family occasions for joy, he cannot rejoice alone, he cannot shut himself up in his own house and rejoice. The one who's looking forward to it more looks like a crazy and disturbed person than a normal person. Joy is shared, so you need to invite people to joy and share. It's a sense of joy. In fact, that means joy can't be particular. Happiness can't be particular, it can't be just for some, it will either primarily come true for most, at least for those who want to live and work normally and try, or it won't be. In this regard, we cannot stay on to satisfy our own status and our own happiness and our own condition. To actually begin to change this situation is a good thing that we have big action and it's promising against organised crime, and I support the very top of the state and the entire security system that has decided this time, thank God, to be faster than what happened in 2003, so that it doesn't let organized crime think it's stronger than the state, so that they attack what was the mistake of the state government in 2003. Now we have a smarter operation and that the state system was smarter and faster and that the move ahead of organised crime, which testifies to this shooting that we're watching, who we're encouraging, and with expectations that it's not half-ending, but that it's going to go to the end, because crime is like a malignancy. If you just start the cancer, if you partially cut it off and remove it, then you didn't do anything, but you just woke it up. That is why we are encouraging the very top of the state and the authorities to end up dealing with organised crime, and here, at least what is available to us from the means of public information to confirm what I personally and my colleagues have spoken during the past term of action, therefore, crime and state bodies. So here it is now confirmed, and certainly it is very important to go to the end in this account, not only in terms of the actors themselves or the bearer of organised crime, but also in their flocks, or those who actually protected them from the whole system, whether it's the police, whether it's the judiciary, whether it's the prosecution. It would be wrong to say that it's just about the police. It's probably the police that were most interesting and it's the first line or first contact of criminals with state authorities. But when it comes to highly sophisticated crime, then it would be very naive to say that it was kept only at the level of police officers and police officials. No, for sure. That's where I can testify from where I come from that their influence on the judiciary is very strong. They repeat the sentence that I have spoken many times in this honorable House -- in Novi Pazar it is clear exactly which criminal group has a particular judge, which lawyers are not only defenders of their clients but direct lines towards corrupt judges. You know exactly how many tens of thousands of euros or thousands of euros you're getting out of prison and you're saving the convictions against the severity of the crime. So, this is the truth that almost all citizens of Novi Pazar know, and there's no point in uglyly representing the state and sending a message that an ordinary citizen has all that information, and the competent police departments and security services or the control service of the judge's work don't know. Therefore, what I urge and what I insist on is that on this new one, I say, offensives on organised crime must not be put on the city of Belgrade and on some major cities of central Serbia, but that it is necessary to go to the end. In particular, areas that rely on border and administrative crossings are additionally interesting and interesting to represent an environment for the flashing of organised crime. So, the moment you cut that umbilical cord between criminals and judges, between criminals and prosecutors, between criminals and cops, they can be, I don't know, how powerful their power will melt. All their power is in their hands with politics, with the police, with the D.A.'s office and with the judiciary. We have a lot of data coming to us, that even the police most often and primarily under attack are mostly committing criminal acts for certain criminal activities, whether they are typical criminals, whether they are local politicians who behave in Kabadish and criminal ways. We have information that it's the most common thing for the police to do, but that prosecutors and certain investigative judges are blocking it. So that the petals of their criminal record and criminal charges that the police have prosecuted are crowded when it comes to local courts, i.e. basic courts, when it comes to senior courts, the Supreme Court in Novi Pazar, but also when it comes to this Special Court for Organized Crime in the Kingdom, which is mostly protected or inactive, it acts passively with regard to the processing of certain important cases concerning serious crime in the Sandzak area, i.e. in the New Market area. What the state and its apparatus cannot allow is that it becomes normal. We cannot allow one point away from Belgrade to be a shade behind crime, on the one hand, but also for certain civil servants, to be judges, police officers and prosecutors or operators of some other activity to actually use it for their participation in a particular crime. What is also important in order to have full trust and quality in terms of both the judiciary and the prosecution is a special sensitivity that the state should have, again in accordance with the Constitution and the law where we have a national and ethnic mixed environment. Therefore, I must remind, appeal and call, for who knows which time the state and the competent authorities will carry out what is a legal obligation, which is the balance of the ethnic structure in the judiciary and the prosecution. We don't have it yet, he's still and how to harm the Bosniaks. Of course, here I would never favour ethnicity over quality versus competence, but we also have to take care of it, at least roughly, so if we have somewhere in a court or a prosecutor's office that the figure is in favor of an ethnic community. Let's make it a little bit different, so that we have some general approach so that we can send pictures that it's a relationship that we want to cultivate fairly, and certainly to have competences, we need to also take care of the education and raising of these personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3625	I thank the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Muamer Zukorlic, the authorised representative of the MP Group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party - the United Peasant Party. Dear People's MPs, I would remind you without entering the content of the discussion that the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, that we have 31 candidates for five courts, respecting the full width of democracy and your messages and discussions, please adapt your discussions to the agenda and also to discuss the candidates themselves, in order to avoid just advertising the Rules of Procedure, not to stick to the agenda. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP, an authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3626	Thank you. We are today discussing the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office for the Business and Second Basic Court in Belgrade, the General and Criminal Court in Kragujevac and the Criminal Court in Kruševec. We have already discussed some of the proposals on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, and in this sense I share the same opinion that I have expressed before, but in order not to repeat myself in this sense, I would like to say that, for the beginning of these proposals, the decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office essentially demonstrate the clear intention and will to increase the number of judges, and in order to ensure even allocation of the case, we have made it easier for the judges to work and ultimately respected one of the basic principles on which the trial and the judiciary are based, and that is the principle of a reasonable time. We in the Proposal for a Decision, which has been made by the High Council of the judiciary, cannot conclude much when we look at the biographies of those we choose today, except that it is about young people who have shown their quality and dedication in their work so far, and I have no doubt that their competence will be exactly the way we expect it to be. Simply, their future commitment to work is expected to be at an appropriate level. Just because it's about judges who are elected for the first time at the judge's office, I think right now, and here, we have to present all the challenges that await them, or who are standing before them in the hope that they will in their future work with a lot of enthusiasm and apply them, or try to overcome them. By using the saying – listen to the teacher, but do not follow him, I expect that the future judges will know that they recognise the lack of justice and that their removal will be fought just as they fought to be on the list of those we choose today, or who we are discussing, so let the first step towards this goal be to modernise the judiciary through some creative normative and organisational solutions, as we see in our biography that it is young people who, by choosing for the first time on this function, can, in essence, raise the issue of modernization of the judiciary in full capacity, especially considering that they belong to a generation of modern technologies and how close they are. Furthermore, another of the things I would draw attention to is opening up to the public. The transparent work of the judge is the only answer to the high degree of complexity of this matter and it essentially creates a completely different picture of the judiciary if this transparency is at an appropriate satisfactory level. We hear a lot and there's a lot of debate about this, about reducing the length of the proceedings and reducing the total number of pending cases. I think there's already a lot going on in that sense and these objects are going to be solved in the way that dynamics allows, so let's keep going in that direction. When we talk about business courts, given that judges are elected to these places, given that the number of cases being settled before the Court of Commerce is increasing from year to year even on average by about 30%, 30% of the year we have an increase in the number of cases in the Court of Commerce, as well as the fact that every judge in this court solves nearly 80 cases per month, you will agree that this is not a small number, it is unnecessary to talk about the need to increase the number of judges of the Court of Commerce. As far as criminal courts are concerned, the average number of cases solved by the Criminal Court judge is 55 at the monthly level and, analysing the work of criminal courts in Serbia, are the most burdensome infraction courts in Sremska Mitrovica, Jagodina and Subotica, while on average the largest number of cases at the monthly level are resolved in Senta and Belgrade. Infringements should be encouraged to consider the application of existing solutions, as it has been very often shown that solutions applied before some other courts, with certain adjustments, can be applied in fact in decision-making by misdemeanor courts, and thus we would come to a uniform practice in solving some daily problems in work and improve overall efficiency in the conduct of infringement courts. As most citizens, you will agree with me, in your life alone and facing infringing courts, the success of the functioning of these courts often has a decisive impact on the creation of a general picture of the situation in the judiciary. In the current practice of criminal courts as the most common problems that have arisen, we have a delivery, i.e. calling and providing for the presence of the accused and other participants in the proceedings, as well as problems related to the execution of criminal sanctions. For example, in large cities such as Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade, the percentage of successful deliveries does not exceed 20% and this has a very negative impact on the duration of the proceedings and leads to the limitations of the criminal prosecutions or the execution of criminal sanctions. Let's just say, I'm going to set a good example when it comes to overcoming the delivery problem. The New Pazar misdemeanor court has been renewing its contractual relationship with the Youth Co-operation several years ago every January, and this is by hiring a courier service for city settlements in the municipality. This is a significant improvement in delivery performance while reducing costs for this purpose. The Department of the Criminal Court's expedition is handing over mail to the hired couriers each of whom is in charge of a certain part of the city. Of course, they're all trained to do these jobs to keep things going according to the law and so far there's no problem in functioning. There is a good example that we may be able to apply in other cities to improve efficiency in those areas where it is needed. In the end, I only have one message for the judges whose choice, hopefully, we'll support in the voting day. There are no regulations and institutions that will provide you with independence, independence and impartiality if you are not yourself. You are expected to force your character and conscience, because your conscience is the best friend of justice, to ensure your independence, independence, impartiality and expertise. One more thing, it's very important that you be judges out of court and out of court. Give your contribution to the promotion of the judiciary, starting from this moment, that is, from the moment of your election. Discuss issues, even court practice, and apply busy opinions, and I am sure that the results of your work will not be left behind, and we will be proud to vote for you, i.e. to justify your choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3627	I thank the authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group. The next president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3628	Thank you, Mrs. Elvira Kovac. The Honorable Presidency, respected representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, I am not a lawyer and likely that today my distinguished colleague, Tom Fila, who is absent for justified reasons, would speak more highly of this topic. I am sure that my colleague, Professor Aleksandar Martinovic, who is a prominent lawyer, will talk about this subject, but I will try to speak from another angle and from another aspect, as someone who is a folk MP, who is a legitimately elected representative of citizens, you know, parliament is the voice of the people, and we are representatives of the citizens and what citizens expect from the Serbian judiciary, what it is that citizens in Serbia expect from judges who are first elected to judge office and what it is that they expect from the whole judiciary in general. Of course, when I say - the entire judiciary, I mean the High Council of the judiciary. My exposure will be somewhat different from the others, because I want to create one retrospective of judicial collapse in Serbia between 2000 and 2012. I think it's very important, and we all need to remind ourselves of it for one simple reason, to make one parallel how we choose judges for the first time today, and how judges are chosen once. So, first of all, I want to say that it's a clear procedure for selecting judges. Therefore, the election procedure was established by the Law on Judges, and in accordance with the Constitution, the Law on Judges was adopted in 2008. Two years after the constitution was passed, it was changed several times. The 2006 constitution found that the judge's office was permanent, the re-election of judges was abolished, except for judges who were first elected, whose mandate lasted three years. The National Assembly is electing judges who are first elected to serve as judges. The High Judiciary Council elects judges to serve as permanent judge if, at the end of three years, they show the required results. The National Assembly also elects the president of the courts, including the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the High Council of the judiciary. Presidents are elected from the ranks of judges who are in permanent judicial office. Also, in accordance with the Law on Judges, the number of judges for each court, basic, criminal, senior, determines the High Council of the judiciary. On the basis of the given need to fill the place, the judge of the High Council of the judiciary both publish an advertisement with conditions and deadlines for application, I stress this in particular, since it will speak later, therefore, with conditions and deadlines for registration, very precise and clearly defined. The ad is published in the "Official Messenger" and other advertising means, based on pre-proposal applications, with all candidates who meet the conditions The High Council is having a conversation. I stress again, the High Council of the Judiciary is having a conversation. I'll tell you why it's important. Afterwards, the High Council forms a proposal for candidates for each court for which an ad has been called. When it comes to judges who are first elected, the High Judicial Council shall refer its proposal to the National Assembly in the form of a proposal for a decision, the National Assembly, as today, shall elect judges who are elected for the first time, and the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary shall, of course, consider the committee responsible, the Committee of Justice and it shall refer the proposal to the National Assembly for a decision on the choice of judges. Both the committee responsible and the relevant assembly may challenge a candidate if he considers that he does not meet all the conditions, especially with regard to the expertise, qualifications and dignity of the candidates. So, very clearly and precisely defined procedure. I'm not a lawyer, so I read it. So one system approach, which only allows those who know, who know and who want to be chosen. Today we're talking about those who choose for the first time on a judge's post. You know, when someone says that justice is slow, but available, I see it as a citizen, first of all, as a MP, as a representative of the citizens, to say, as an ultimate idea. But essentially, the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group is that justice must be swift and efficient. So today we're talking about judges who are first elected to the judge's office and I just want to say that the most important thing is that this is not a party election, in the party state, as it once seemed. That's what once, I'll remind you, was done by local justice committees of certain parties outside the usual checks. To illustrate what it looked like, I'll give you an example. Here, I have it in front of me, a document, I didn't make it up, I didn't fake it, there are signatures. It's very interesting how judges are proposed and how prosecutors are proposed. The signature and seal of the representatives of one political party on the one hand, and the signing of the president of the municipality and the seal of the municipality on the other. I'm not talking about people, it wouldn't make sense, but I'll tell you, let's just say, what's in that memo. Among other things, one candidate has been said to be this way -- the president of the court since 2000, broke between the DS and the DSS, overcame the current interest, and is considered to be a DSS, in principle, honest but unconquerable, deserves a chance. The next candidate is said to be – a sympathiser, a DS member's wife, honest, valuable, on the other hand unsuspecting, ten years back providing all legal assistance to the DS, probably the best in the court, ambitious, deserves to progress, interested in an appeal judge, undeniable. For the next candidate, they say - withdrawn, peaceful, valuable, possibly honest, experienced, sympathetic, not interested in politics, former Socialists, co-operated without discussion, undeniable again. They say the next one - unsullied, unpromised, probably honest, friendly, always ready for co-operation, apolitical, sympathiser, undeniable. Then they say of the next candidate - a peaceful, fair, withdrawn, fair, apolitical, only flawed husband of former JUL president, now a political, director of electricity distribution in the municipality, indisputable judicial qualities. The next candidate - currently executive judge, does not defend the interests of society, corrupt, Grammy wife lawyer, working here and there, evil for the judiciary. These are qualifications based on which judges have been elected. Next – unprofessional, a person with no reputation, probably corrupt and that and for smaller jobs, strayed among judges, radically in the mood. So they say of the next -- the president of the court by 2000, the impertinent enemy of the DS, because of his shift, unprincipled, corrupt, coerced, has been working here today and there, condemning since 1996 as president of the Greater Election Stealing in the municipality, before retirement, undeniably negative. Then at the end of one they say-- an executive judge with no authority, honest, but unusable because of alcohol, and I'm hoping to retire. Well, that's what the judges were proposing to do at the judge's office. There are two prosecutors here who suggested it. Prosecutors are told - honest, valuable, on the part of the observed unsuspecting, professional, experienced, long-standing DS sympathiser, rejected all criminal charges against officials of the DS municipal board from that municipality, a son member, deserves attention and a chance to advance, interested in the deputy prosecutor or senior prosecutor. Next, the deputy municipal public prosecutor, the party's sympathiser, safe voice, fair, unsumptive, under-attractive, in the shadow of the prosecutor, usable, indisputable for the deputy general prosecutor in Leskovac. These are recommendations based on which someone is elected judge and someone elected prosecutor, and these recommendations are made by the presidents of the local committees along with the signing of the president of the municipalities. That is why I say it is important that today when we talk about judges who are first elected to a judicial office, they are not elected in the party state by party membership. But on Saturday, the Serbian judiciary, I have already talked about it, and I will repeat it today, first by declaring victory in the 2000 presidential elections, which was not achieved in the first round, because the political process is not over. Was anyone responsible for that? Next, it continues on October 5th and the burning of the Assembly, from the Old Town Interior Secretariat, then 200 pieces of weapons disappear. Did anyone answer? Well, a break-in with long pipes in the NBS. Without a final decision by the state consent of the investigating judge, there is no agreement between the justice minister and The Hague tribunal's president, Slobodan Milosevic, delivered. Is it based on what the president was brought out of the detention unit? Now whoever was in charge of taking care of that detention unit, and that's some Mr. Blanusha, he writes some books. He shouldn't write books, he should be held accountable, how he could have allowed someone out of the detention unit without the documentation I mentioned. The state that allowed the prime minister to be not killed but shot, and there was never a political background or all the participants in the murder, then the state of emergency, against the constitution, was deprived of the freedoms of persons who were not only involved in crime but were also politically inadequate, used data from the White Book, even there were cuts – who were more arrested, the one who was more successful, the question arises whether this action was the fruit of the decision of the state or whether this action was the fruit of the decision of another action entitled "The Sword"? Off the record, information and estimates of US and UK institutes were well known at the time that by 2000 the state had been stronger in the situation of controlling the underworld and since 2000, the underworld had been in control of the state. Then follow the "successful", call for a reform of the Serbian judiciary, in which out of 3,000 judges 900 are out of work. I'm saying all of this for one simple reason, to point out that in front of you, that in front of the Serbian judiciary, when I tell the Serbian judiciary, I mean the High Council of the judiciary, I mean those we choose today for the first time in office, a serious and important job. The network of courts was totally wrong, not adapted to the legal system and completely devalued the previous network of courts that proved to be good in an organisational sense. Just before the reform, large funds were invested in the courts' buildings, in the previous network, and then the municipalities were left without courts. The Supreme Cassation Court system and the Court of Appeal, in our opinion, is not consistent. The supreme cassation court, which is the highest judge, is extremely acting, comes somehow as an advisory court. On the other hand, the Appellate, which is not ranked, which is measuringly acting, and each of these courts forms judicial practice and, of course, there are consequences – there are discrepancies in jurisdiction and functions, systemically poor network of courts, interrupted continuity of progress through previous careers, through strange reforms – many who have not earned progress, devalued what is essential not only for the judiciary but for every area of society in Serbia, which is knowledge and experience, a broken system, a legal tradition, very good courts. After network and personnel, it was easy to create court proceedings, unfortunately. It started with amendments and additions to the law, and in our opinion, it was a mere imitation of an Anglo-Saxon law model, which couldn't have been applicable in our country. A legal surrogate that had many shortcomings – no objectivity and no neutrality in procedures. I listed all of this for one simple reason, because we want as a parliamentary group to point out that you have a really serious, responsible, important and significant job for the whole society, so that the citizens of Serbia, above all, feel safe. We will, of course, support the proposal we're talking about today, it's absolutely not a dispute, because that proposal has passed one system, one procedure that is clearly and precisely defined. We also expect that during the period ahead, we will remove all the shortcomings and disadvantages that have been made during the previous period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3629	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. My colleague Jelena Žarić Kovacevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3630	I thank the President for giving me your word. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have a choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office and at the very beginning I would like to address the candidates not only for the judges we elect at this session, but also for the candidates, for the public prosecutors, for the presidents of the courts, because the National Assembly is in charge of their choice and I want to address all those who make the judiciary in our country at all. You must be aware, when you agree to be a candidate for such functions, that you must respect the principles that apply to the performance of these actions, that you must, above all, respect the laws and be sure that you will be able to ensure independence, impartiality in your work and that you can stand by the judgments made on behalf of the people and not on behalf of the political party or on behalf of anyone who has delegated you for that function. There are reasons why I begin today's address in this way. These reasons were certainly settled in the period until 2012, when responsibility for the exercise of power was on the DS and on all those who have now abandoned it and established various alliances and new parties, because they are washed from the mistakes and malversions they have committed. Namely, the reform carried out by the DS 2009 reminds us of the poor attitude towards the rule of law in our country, how irrelevant and chicified were the holders of judicial functions that did not want to put their functions under control of the party, so that they were resolved and driven from courts as the most ignorant, only for reasons that they were not obedient and the period in which the judicial authority was placed absolutely under a handful of policies, all of which caused great consequences in our legal system, but also the costs incurred at the end of Serbia's citizens. The democratic party exercised power exclusively through its boards across Serbia, where decisions were to be made by state authorities. So, on party committees that elected even judges and prosecutors for political resemblance at their sessions. I have spoken many times before about their committee in Vlasotinc, where there is also a record from a session sealed by the municipal seal but also by the seal of the party and signed by the president of the DS party board and the president of the municipality. It's only one in a series of abuses committed by party officials of the DS. Of course, an integral part of that record was also a list of politically similar candidates for judges and prosecutors who were evaluated with an obedient party member, similar to being a judge, etc. I am pleased that my colleague, the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic and showed the document today, so that citizens of Serbia can see how the government actually governed the judiciary by 2012 using political influence and a series of abuses. I can also thank him for not reading his names, because he was polite enough not to read those names. You see, in the last term, I have also often talked about the names precisely so that the citizens of Serbia would know about it and see if they would be ashamed to treat the Serbian judiciary in such a way. Nothing different, of course, was there in Nis, or in other cities that were later implemented so-called "Nish". judicial reform was left without high-quality judicial and prosecutorial staff in courts where citizens were left to judge in accordance with party orders, with party instructions, so who found the party member and found the link was ruled in his favour, and who was nothing to anyone, because then justice and justice depended solely on DS policy. Therefore, every time we talk about the choice of judges who are first elected to a judicial office, I think it is very important that we remind them of a time that was not good for our judiciary, the obligations they will make in taking over these functions, which concern security, of course, unconditional application of the law, justice, equality of the citizens before justice, efficiency in work, and in particular the avoidance of the influence of politics, legislative and executive authorities, on the judicial authority and on how and in whose benefit judgments they will make, because I repeat, they are the judgments behind which they are due to stand on behalf of the people. This haughtiness of the authorities by 2012 and this unscrupulous influence on the judiciary, and we remember that in other areas it was no different, reminds us that we should not work, because we remember trade in political influence, we remember numerous affairs, embezzlements, malfeasances, controversial privatisations, and everything that has reversed Serbia and disrupted its credibility and reputation in the world. Now these remains of the Democratic Party in the form of Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic, Borko Stefanovic, Vuk Jeremic continue to break Serbia's reputation through other, mostly assembled parties, alliances or movements, and, of course, very much wanting to return to power to continue where they left off, and to us from the SNS are announcing revenge that has a rare form and physical accounting. From 2000 to 2012 the government systematically robbed its own people through robbery privatisations and, of course, because of many officials who abused their positions by their private companies and companies doing business with the state. The state-owned enterprises have collapsed, and their private companies have become wealthy and it was obvious, because before they came to power they had neither that amount of money nor expensive cars nor real estate, they did not travel to the most expensive destinations around the world. The question is rightly raised whether this property was acquired in a legal manner? The state remained devastated, the budget was emptied, so that when the SNS took over in 2012 there was no money for salaries and pensions. There was no salary, no pensions, let alone investment in our country. And when we talk about the results that have been achieved in the area of justice, of course we are making the difference between a stable and a secure judicial system that we have today and a judiciary that has failedly resisted political influences, what kind of situation we had until 2012. Remember that we had talked about 24 controversial privatisations before and the consequences of our market and our public finances at the time, let's say, when Zoran Zivkovic was prime minister, when the privatisation minister was Aleksandar Vlahovic. I'll give you just one example, if we take the example of the Smederjevo Ironworks, we'll see obvious abuse if we know that the first signed letter of intent with the buyer, and only then is the sales procedure launched. The company was sold for about $20m, although its value was estimated at over $50m. And to every abuse of them, the government today, whose backbone makes SNS, can immediately respond with success and result, even in this case. Today, Jelizara contributes to the stability of our budget, employs more than 5,000 people, in 2016, when the HBIS group invested more than 160m euros. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the differences between past authorities by 2012 and the government of the SNS. It is logical today that such former politicians and officials show fear, show anxiety when we talk, let's say, about the Law of Origin of Assets, which we talked about last week, which we adopted last week. It is those who participated in controversial privatisations, in other malfeasances now criticise the passing of such a law and run a dirty campaign against both the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic, who remains determined in his decision to fight the mafia, crime and corruption. When we talk about justice, of course we need to look at the results that have been achieved in this area, first of all, in ways that we have provided the rule of law in our country and, most importantly, the return or creation of citizens' trust in our judicial system. The fight against corruption is the Serbian government's strategic plan. For years, the Serbian government has been proposing certain measures, both preventive and repressive. The National Assembly also played a certain role, I would say a significant role, in this fight against corruption, because in the last term we had a lot of amendments and additions to legislative acts, so we even participated in the adoption of some new solutions that appeared in our legislation for the first time. We are the only ones who dare, so I think of the SNS that makes up the backbone of the Serbian government, the only reason we should be thanks to Alexander Vukic, who started it and who, as the real president of the state, was to hit criminals and mobsters, tycoons whose government not only looked through their fingers by 2012, but to do business with them and protect them. The president of the assembly, the Serbian government, the National Assembly, the judiciary, the police, we are all on the same task, and we should all work together to fight crime and corruption, and only then will the citizens be sure that there are no tycoons stronger than the state and they will know that they are protected. They'll be able to trust their country. I would like to commend at this point all the security structures that have been affected by organised crime, because after their playful and well-coordinated intervention, following the arrest of Belivuk and the criminal structure he was running, we have seen that there have been reactions to that part of the opposition in Serbia, which is more apparent to have their former associates arrested. They should know that arresting criminals is the job of state authorities, that there will be no more situation in Serbia as before 2012 when the state determined who gets arrested and who doesn't, who protects himself. They need to know there's no protections and they'll all be the same under the law. It doesn't matter if it's Belivuk and this criminal organization or whether it's any other criminal structure. The fight against crime is one and focused on all forms and levels of criminal activity. Indeed, the question arises – why did Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic, Miroslav Aleksic, Bosko Obradovic immediately respond to statements and press conferences, attacking the state, attacking Aleksandra Vukic, as he deals with the mafia, and why is such a fight against crime and corruption now being fought? Why are they defending these criminal structures? Why do they not advocate the rule of law, for healthy Serbia without criminals, for a life without mobsters from whom the honest world will fear? Is this a pressure on the media to transfer such attitudes, pressure on the state authorities to withdraw, pressure on us not to talk about it, at the end and on the citizens to be silent and obedient? Does this show us what they would serve if they came to power? Instead of doing at least one thing that the President of the Republic has done for this country, and he has done a lot of things, or at least one of the things that the state's authorities are doing every day can see, to support themselves to engage at least in the fight against crime and to help, regardless of the various political definitions. I agree that everyone can have the right to their own opinion and that everyone can support the party they want to support, but for the sake of higher goals, citizens could give support, but they could also be silent, but it's obvious that the crime factors are much stronger than anything else. Instead of finally doing something constructive for you from such an opposition, these self-proclaimed political leaders are counting on the family of Aleksandar Vukic and then Bosko Obradovic, a week ago, wonders why the press did not come to his conference. People no longer care if you bring a stone into the congregation, if you pull microphones, if you insult someone. People don't care if you're going to bang in the windows of the National Assembly with the flag of Serbia, whose MP you are. People are no longer interested in what such politicians are doing, because when Serbian citizens, when a certain part of Serbia's citizens have given them support to be in this high house and to be in this room, they have failed them. Now it's obvious that out of fear and anxiety they criticize and attack, because of course, the attack is the best defense, they're just acting victims in front of the citizens they weren't feeling sorry for and giving them some voice. The elections are won by the programme, by work and results, not by tears and by bitching and by citizens will show them that in the next election, if they dare to go out in the first place. The fight against crime that President Aleksandar Vucic insists on shows the strength of our state authorities, shows that we will continue to pursue development and stability and that we will not allow anyone to bring down the state and destroy everything we have achieved and built so far, and the result is, we all know very much. The interest of our entire society is to prevent crime and corruption, because it would keep us from moving forward, to make progress in all fields. We don't want to go back to the past, at the time of the tycoon's rule, emptying the state register, filling the pockets of individuals. Also, I want to point out the seriousness of the threat to President Alexander Vukic's safety, because it's as if many people don't take it seriously, as if they're already used to him being obliged to suffer attacks every day and it's already become normal somewhere. It's not normal, the attack on him is an attack on the state. All circumstances concerning the endangered security of the president, his listening, the daily criminalisation of his family, should be questioned, and I, from this place, want to say that I really expect the state authorities to do so. I will conclude my address today with a message that the state will persist in the fight against crime and corruption, because Serbian citizens deserve to live in the rule of law, in a stable and developed country, and no one will be able to stand in the way of Alexander Vukic to guide us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3631	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the president of the parliamentary groups want a word? If not, since I don't see anyone in the system, we're moving on to the speaker list. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3632	I would like to give full support on behalf of our parliamentary group to the state summit in the uncompromising fight against crime and corruption. It's something that there are no rotten compromises about, and we really have to keep going to the end to make that fight effective. It's very important that we start paying attention to people in the system, combing people from the system. There is no organised crime and corruption without support from the policy area, the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. Those rotten apples have to be cleaned up to have an orderly society and that the state of citizens and citizens in this fight will be the winners. What's very important, to take advantage of your presence, is to go in to deal with those people who are working against the interests of citizens and the state, to see how they came into position. We've heard all kinds of lists here, as people recommend themselves, it doesn't matter what college he's graduated from, what grades he's had, but who he works for? Did certain criminals make lists of who should work in the police, in the prosecution and in the judiciary? From some examples I know from Sandzak, from Novi Pazar, as well as from our party leader Muamer Zukorlic, the charter knows, not the competent services, which the judge for whom the criminal is working, and I call on the authorities to fully examine it, but in the next period we will talk about it. So we have a situation for the police to do their part of the job, and the D.A. won't process it. We need to examine how people who are fighting under the allegations of crime and corruption have come to a diploma? If someone has a fake degree, if they ended up in a suspicious way, how can they essentially fight crime and corruption? So, first of all, it has to be expertise, secondly it has to be all the constitutional categories, and the constitutional category is, among other things, the percentage representation of the national communities. I, for the sake of citizens and citizens, especially in Sandzak who live, want to say that today when we talk about this important topic, I don't see representatives of Bosniaks in this Assembly, who are drilling in Novi Pazar with some false patriotism, and right here we need to talk, without passion or emotion, that we need to have a percentage representation of national communities in this case of Bosniaks in the state apparatus. It's unacceptable. We had one period that we had and he wasn't great. Thank God, now by compromise, by agreement, by talking, we solve open issues. We want honest and honest people who are members of all national communities to be both in the judiciary and in the prosecution and in politics, because we want to make this country fundamentally democratic. I can't agree to have an eight-judge criminal court in Prepolje, just one being a Bosniak. I also want to point out that we have to do everything possible to get the primary court back in Tutin and that the citizens have a basic court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3633	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3634	Although today's topic of debate is the choice of judges who are first elected to judge office, I would look back at the very beginning and remind all of us of certain constitutional provisions. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the VSS is an independent and independent body that provides and guarantees the independence and independence of courts and judges. The High Judicial Council elects and relieves judges in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and when the first election is held, it proposes to the National Assembly members to elect judges. These people are elected to a three-year term. It is a priority that both what and all other persons who have long served as judges, defend their independence by judging securely with integrity in line with the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Everyone has the right to a fair trial, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. Within a reasonable period of time, the court shall, in an impartial manner, determine by law the charges against the person, as well as the reasons for the proceedings. It is very important to speak constantly, especially in this home about the protection of public order and morals, about the protection of the interests of minors and the privacy of participants in the process. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia is calling on all judicial authorities and police to prevent leaks of information in public, concerning important court proceedings. In fact, we are witnessing that different tabloids and media are reaching classified information that has been misused to achieve sensationalism. They're an anatemist and a victim, but also a suspect in advance judging him without a final court trial. Brutal, creepy, shocking headlines containing nearly 50% of media posts, talking about violence. This causes serious damage to the public, but also damage to the case itself. The Social-Democrat Party of Serbia also strongly supports the efforts of the Citizens' Protectors to improve the work of judicial authorities and institutions in procedures in which the victims are minors. The main objective is to prevent minors from testifying repeatedly about the same event and thus being further traumatised. There's no excuse for sensationalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3635	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3636	I thank the esteemed Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the VSS, I am above all pleased that you are here again and that after only a month we have the choice of judges on the agenda, because I really think that the personnel reinforcements in our judiciary are necessary if we want it to be up-to-date and efficient. As you said, more than 30 judges have been proposed and the SPS parliamentary group will support their choice. We have already given support to the Justice Committee, when I missed the chance to ask you how many were reported in this contest. It would be good to know what kind of interest it is, since I remember, that when it came to the Ivanjica competition, interest was not great if candidates from other cities were received, while I hear that in some places the number of people reported is significantly higher, or exceeds the number of vacancies. So it would be good if you were able to give that information, but in any case, the positive news is what will continue to be accepted by the new judges. Informed of competitions that have been scheduled in other cities. I saw that there was a competition in Zrenjanin for five new judges. The National Assembly has received a proposal to elect judges in the Privred Court in Zajecar, and this is really good news, because I think it is important to increase the number of judges, because the courts are really overloaded and there are frequent objections that there are great gaps between the hearings, that the trials take a long time and that the procedural deadlines are sometimes not respected and the judges are often blamed, and the fact is ignored that the number of judges is largely inadequate. As for candidates who are elected today, I believe that the High Council of the judiciary has adequately assessed their expertise, skills and dignity and that the opinions attached to the candidates are a sincere recommendation. When it comes to their work experience, as one of the indicators of their expertise, biographies show that it is larger than the law set a condition. We even have a candidate who has gained her experience since 1997 in courts and prosecutions. The last time you were, I voiced the need to facilitate this passing in courts, as well as in the prosecutions, and to simply allow younger candidates to progress more easily, because it is important that we have judges and prosecutors who were standing in new laws and who may be more enthusiastic in applying the modern legal solutions that we have. Another indicator of expertise is the theoretical knowledge of which I would speak the average rating with which the candidates graduated, which is again not part of the biography, but I certainly hope that you also took that fact into account when formulating the proposal itself. I certainly believe that because of the transparency of the electoral process, it should be part of the biography and that information should be made available to the public, but I certainly must point out that all candidates are so-called candidates. Judge's exam, passed with the highest score. Also, what I would particularly point out is what may be interesting from the aspect of gender equality is that of 14 proposed judges for the basic court in Kragujevac, 13 are female sex, which means that soon, in Kragujevac justice will be in women's hands, which of course should not be important. It is important that this first chance is given to them by the best, most competent, most valuable and most worthy, because in the public mostly when it comes to the need for judicial independence to be improved, it is mainly debated about the institutional component of independence, or whether these guarantees are in the best possible way incorporated into our Constitution and considered in which direction this segment should be further promoted. But I believe that for the achievement of independence, the impartiality of the court may be a more important personal component that depends precisely on the dignity of the judges who will make our judiciary. It is important that there be people of sublime moral qualities and strong and firm integrity who will reject all influences of whoever they come from, resist all pressures, will not agree to any incentives, however tempting they may be, who will remain deaf to requests, demands, and other interventions. That's why high-quality judges in the people are mostly unloved, but respected. Unfortunately, I'm sure there are other examples. Well, we've read in the media that before, it seems to me, ten days ago, one judge was arrested on suspicion that she was taking bribes and our state had to deal with, not only corrupt politicians, officials, police officers, but also judges. One way to fight it is to make sure that the choice of water makes sure that the chance is given to those that are founded can be assumed that they will not be prone to corrupt actions, that they will not allow anyone to put them under their control, nor politics, nor mafia, nor women, nor lovers, nor comrades, nor hires, to be independent of anything except the Constitution and the law. In the hope that the proposed candidates are exactly like that, as I said, the SPS parliamentary group will support their election, but if during the next three years there are any indications that they are not, I call on the High Council of the Judiciary not to re-election them. Because we must not forget that the judiciary has just mirrored the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3637	I thank the People's Messenger, Deep King. The word was asked, probably to answer you, Ivan Jovicic, vice president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3638	I'll try briefly, not to take up much of your time, to answer some of these questions that we received from Mrs. King. First of all, it's a great deal of interest, for almost every court candidate to become judges. In my opinion, I think it is justified, because it is a great honor and pride to be a judge in the Republic of Serbia. I don't know the exact information about these five courts, but let's say for the Second Basic Court, these eight seats, there were over 200 candidates. You mentioned Ivanjic, then on the Justice Committee, I said that maybe, so little, that no proposed candidate, that was the last time, wasn't from Ivanjica. Not because it was not a big interest, but because of the area covered by the basic court in Ivanjica, which is the municipality of Ivanjica and the municipality of Luciani, was not a single candidate. Then we chose candidates who were gravitating that place, and these were mostly co-workers from the Požega General Court. As far as transparency is concerned, believe that the procedure conducted by the High Council of the Judiciary is very transparent and I must tell you that it is our obligation under the Law on Judges and by the Regulation that we have adopted on the way and the program of passing exams, to assess the skills, i.e. professionality, competence and dignity of the candidates. When the trainees are received after a competition called by the Ministry of Justice, it is very important to see the average and length of the study of success at the university. That's not, I'm saying, an element that looks at the High Council of the Judiciary in the reception of candidates for the simple reason that we're obliged to watch the expertise, the skills and dignity that we evaluate, that is, on the basis of the exams that are being passed, and two exams are being passed. One exam just for expertise. There is a database with a number of questions that candidates, by rounding up the correct answer, get a certain number of points, and another is the skills that are practically evaluated through the task, means exactly a practical example when it is seen whether they are really qualified to perform that function. Dignity is assumed, we obtain an opinion from practically their collectives, i.e. employers who deliver opinions for candidates. When we have all these parameters, the commission formed by the High Council of the Judiciary to propose candidates, the proposal is not decisive, it doesn't have to pass, because ten of us are in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, it takes six votes. We hope that this time we have really done a good job, that all proposed candidates will be practically judges who will serve the honor and pride of the citizens of the Republic. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3639	Thank you. We're moving on. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3640	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the honourable representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, let me begin by saying that the judges, the presidents of the courts, let's say, fall into office. When it comes to certain functions, any judicial, any other, they must be men of honor. They don't have to be rich people, because rich people don't develop democracy, at least it's known, especially if they acquired their wealth during a certain function, as we now had a situation with Mr. Gilas during the post, 619m euros. "Democracy is when honorable people rule, not wealthy," Aristotle said more. This is a quote from Aristotle. They do not have to be rich, however, we often act differently in practice. When it comes to judges who are first elected to this judge's office, according to what we've got here from biography, it can be concluded that all candidates meet the criteria and criteria for assessing and selecting judges. As you said, Mr. Jovic, expertise, training and dignity. When it comes to dignity, it's about the judge's character, personality. As is the moral character of a teacher in elementary, high school and university, so is the moral character of a judge, not to pass on to other officials. When I watched this, precisely because of these judges who first took office, which we will choose, when I compare the former regime of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, I noticed and I will give concrete information, and you will confirm after you have followed it, they did not adhere to both expertise and training, nor dignity. They respected only one criterion most, and that is party membership, i.e. Belongs to the Democratic Party. I don't have time to analyze every single case, but I can now list the biographies of judges who have been elected for the first time since 2008 when judicial reform was carried out during Gilas's rule, Tadic's, etc., where the main biographies belonged to the Democratic Party. We have analyzed it, as you know, in one of the previous terms of the Assembly. Because of what I just said, you know very well, they fired 827 judges and 200 prosecutors and deputy prosecutors and replaced, which my predecessor also spoke of, sir, I think Samir is called, a party charger. Some have chosen who have never been in office for judges, e.g. head of Boris Tadic's office. You know very well, I don't want to mention his name, but you know who it's about. Not to talk about many others. And not only that, on the family line, I don't want to talk. Nata Mesarovic was related to Boris Tadic. Not to go into generalogy, I'm usually a professor of historical science, generalology is my profession next to others, so I like a bit of generalogy to set up etc. Now, for that very reason, this expertise, the training, the dignity and the replacement of these 827 judges and 200 prosecutors, our judiciary was the worst in Europe. It's not my assessment, it's an evaluation of European officials and you know it very well. That's what Mr. Tadic, Jeremic and Gilas must know. This was how they implemented the judicial reform from 2008 to 2012. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, gentlemen of the judiciary, such injustices, a number of judges could not endure, you know very well. The judge's union filed a report on it. That's why five judges, Mr. Gilas must know because he was a functioner, during his rule, committed suicide. Isn't that right, Mr. Jovic? And at least 20 of them got sick and applied because of this party's belongings and re-election for injustice. The best judges ended up out of office. They brought it in, I don't want to talk about it because my predecessor talked about it. What is security, gentlemen of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, by which the former regime will remain remembered in the history of humanity and in the history of the world's judiciary, is that they have chosen dead Judge Ljubisa Djuric from Požega as judge. Isn't that right, Mr. Jovic? Of course it is. Furthermore, Nata Mesarovic said she spent 200 hours talking to judges. This is about these newly elected judges who will see what's going on. So, a month. The question is, how did she talk to the dead judge? Furthermore, they chose Judge Sonja Brkic, who, at the same time, you know very well, as I do, served as Judge of the Supreme Court and President of the Republic Election Commission, which is prohibited by the laws on judges. Your honors, you must know this, which is the first time in office, for the sake of the future. However, it is not only a choice, but it has damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget by 2,673,000 dinars. She didn't think to pay that money back, even though she was warned. Dear People's MPs, respected Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, in a report by the European Commission for 2010, literally stands, quote - Reforms of the judiciary conducted by the authorities, so, Gilasova, Tadic and Jeremic, in Serbia is a special concern. The judicial reform of Serbia's government was like the worst possible thing. A final quote from the book "Court Reforms in Serbia 2008/2012", page 96 and Belgrade's Politics repeated it on July 7th 2012, which is very important to say further. Finally, Mr. Jovicic, 2008 before the reform of the data, Đilas, Jeremic and Tadic, there were 780,000 unsolved cases. In 2012, when the reform was completed, when the judges were driven away, more than three million, look at the wonders! Instead of reducing, they have raised double unresolved problems. When Mr Selakovic came to the minister, to say in 2019, that number was cut in half by a million and 500 thousand. That's how the former government did it, and that's how the current government, or the judiciary, works. That it has progressed, but I'm not saying it's ideal, but the twist is visible and continued until today. What's very important to say is that judges and prosecutors, we're sorry that we can't talk about the prosecution today, we need to be followed especially by our officers as we behave, whether we're telling certain lies or not, because it often ends at the court. When it comes to politicians, let me say that five former government ministers have been detained and prosecuted. Not to count them now, starting with Saša Dragin, Oliver Dulic, Milosavljevic Slobodan, Jasna Marić, etc., not to count them any further. The dignity you spoke of and the character of the judge is very important. When it comes to lies, I will now quote certain lies, that the judges may see, because the proceedings may come before the court, how they lie, and why they lie. As people of politics and MPs, we must speak the truth in this high house and fight for the truth, as well as the judges. I will mention here the former MP, Mrs. Marinik Tepic, otherwise the political electric rabbit Dragan Dilas, what she lied about. I'll quote, I'll never speak in my mind, but I'll follow the sources. She lied to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that there was a secret state-owned marijuana plantation on the Morovic military facility near Shida. When the gentlemen of the press went and visited military facilities in Morovic, they found only chickens, coke carriers and eggs ready to sell. This is very important, Madam Vice President. Even Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Jesic, our political opponents, said there was a military farm of hens, tow chickens and eggs that existed for 40 years. Why is this important? She was the official until yesterday, and today she is a political official, vice president of a party. She lied to the so-called. The "Krusik" affair, which, by its lies, caused irreparable damage to our dedicated industry, systematically works against the state interests and economic interests of our country, because we lost our jobs, went to a neighbouring country. Marinika Tepic, an electric and political rabbit of Dragan Dilas, continues to launch lies daily. All these lies, as you can see, are being covered by new lies and affairs, and that's how it revolves around. I'll remind you, some have, I believe, and the trial of lies has reached. Remember their lies about “Jovanja” or “Franish”. How did that end? Remember their lies about hundreds of dead floating around the Obrenovac. Even the World Bank denied it. Remember the fake kidnappings of journalists who tried to stage both Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas themselves. Remember the false death threats they staged and printed on the sidewalks. Remember the lies at the expense of Alexander Vukic during his visit to Abu Dhabi in December 2008, when he slept in the most expensive hotel, where overnight accommodation allegedly costs 10,000 euros. The truth was that Aleksandar Vukic didn't stay at that hotel and that the dinar didn't even cost the state of Serbia his stay. Look at the miracles, Gilas apologized for telling a lie, but that announcement was on a list that maybe five people noticed. Marinika Tepic is constantly attacking the crisis headquarters, so she also filed a criminal report against the crisis staff. They'll probably get to court with that trial. They posted a picture of a makeupd foreign model as a victim of the police in the protests. Is that right or not, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? They lied about a young man dying beat to death in a protest. Is it true or not? They both agreed that she and Gilas had sent elite paratroopers to the Nis demonstrations. Is it true, Members of the People, or isn't it? They both agreed that the death of the police minister's father, Dr Nebojja Stefanovic, was faked. Is it true they lied? They agreed that no one in Europe would receive a Chinese vaccine. Citate Gilasov: "Will we receive a Chinese vaccine that no one in Europe will receive? “, finished, August 17, 2020. And you saw, behold, our neighbors, our neighbors and the Hungarian brothers received this vaccine. Not to say what Nikola Jovanovic, her lawyer, said about her, is very well known. While I am on them, let me say a few more sentences, which will probably impress you, to see what lies are being served every day, not just the MPs and the insults, but also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dragan Gilas is constantly insulting the President of the Republic. I don't speak up like him. So on May 5, 2020, on N1 TV, he said, quote: "Wolf, you're crazy," finished the quote. On the question of journalist Jacqueline Tatalovic, I quote: "Will you stop that? “, finished the quote, do you know what Gilas replied? He replied, quoting: "I will strengthen it" and repeated several times. Can you believe that's said by Dragan Gilas, the respected citizens of Serbia? Have we ever said that to our political opponents? And they, behold, accuse us of insulting them when we quote to them what they say to us. It's a replacement thesis, citizens know it very well. That Gilas really touched the bottom of the kacee also proves that on January 20, 2018, only because Aleksandar Vukic went to Kosovo and Metohija, spoke to Serbs and carried help, I quote: "Alexandre Vukic, shame on you," finished the quote. On April 14, 2020, he reiterated again, quoting: "Wolf, you are not normal," the quote concluded. Have you ever experienced that someone from these parliamentary benches has directed to our political opponents? Furthermore, Gilas and his N1 depicted a map of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija on TV N1. That map was on the screen for nearly half an hour, which means it's not a technical error. Did we perhaps ask ourselves that Yugoslavia did not justify the 39,000 euros it received from Pristina? It probably is. On 17 November 2020, Gilas attacked President Vukic for the construction of "Belgrade on Water". I quote: “You need to be crazy to take down a bus stop and transfer traffic to a temporary station, ” finished the quote. And they constantly attack "Belgrade on water", Serbia's pride and citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens. They keep mentioning two illegal houses that were built. They don't say it's illegal and the other one's built. I have to tell you, since I also lived in the communist system, that we built like this – we offered the price, he didn't want, there's no trial, the state has to build, we've destroyed and we've paid what it was. That's how we used to work in the former system. Gilas continues to insult the president, saying on 16 April 2020: "Vucic has mental problems. He's having some disturbances. Shame on you, Alexander Wolfie! Wolfie, you're a crazy man," finished quote. So did you hear a reporter named Stuper say the same thing on N1 yesterday? Who the hell is Stupar? Do you follow him for what he's doing? What's the D.A. and the judge doing? He daily pronounces certain functionaries to patients. Now, gentlemen of the judges you've chosen for the first time at the judge's office, you should also follow the morals of our politicians, and we as politicians must be honorable people and fight for the truth in this high house, because the truth must be above all else. And before that, just three days, on April 11th, I quote, without any reason, "Wolf, you are not normal." Do you know why Gilas says that every day? Because Vukic did not steal 619m euros like Gilas. That's why he's telling him. Because his brother doesn't have 28 apartments and other immovable property, like his own. Gilas insulted Alexander Vukic and the state of Serbia on 13 May 2018 and said that he is a fascist and the state of Serbia that he is fascist and says this, quote: "The day we win this power we will celebrate as another day of victory over fascism," the quote ended. Can you, honourable and honourable Members of the people, believe that this is said by a messenger of the people? Mr. Gilas said yesterday that he would go to the streets if he did not meet the conditions in the dialogue. Respected Serbian citizens, he often says so. Do you know why he's talking? Well, because he's done it before. When? October 5th. There are pictures exactly where he worked directly. If he did that to the same people, I will now quote to you cabinet chief Bill Clinton from 1994 to 1997, Leona Paneta, who claims that the US private organization spent $40m to support Milosevic's opposition, DOS, independent media, civil organisations. "The operation in Serbia in 2000 was a successful case of involving us in elections," completed a quote, John Schiffer, a CIA cell officer for Serbia. And move on, because of what Gilas intends to do tomorrow. Mr. John Schiffer, a CIA cell officer to Serbia, says -- the biggest business model was handing over money in cash to opposition leaders outside the Serbian state's borders, finished quote. And it goes on, it quotes -- this is very important, because it calls back to the streets, it's dressed, I quote -- 15 thousand people who were assigned to be in polling stations. I pray for a little silence because some of them were involved in these events, so they get angry, probably. The parallel counting of votes thus tasked with being in polling stations, a parallel numbering of votes reportedly stealing votes, and mass demonstrations broke out, the quote was completed. Here, Mr. CIA Chief for Serbia's cell admits what was October 5th. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you know that well. October 5th was the worst date in history one of the two worst dates in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Democracy was killed then, because Mr. Kostunica did not win, as you saw, and Mr. Milosevic did not lose, because there was no second round of elections. And the surgery worked. Same operation through Dragan Gilas, the same people are trying to do this these days, help with the same elements outside, not to speak names, I can and about names is not the problem today. Same people, same target, same residue. Well, that's what Dragan Sutanovac is doing today. Balsa Bozovic, who is a national MP, do you know, you Mr Jovičić who Balsa Bozovic is? Well, he's the biggest liar in the Balkans. It was declared by the European Commission, I quote -- the biggest liar, not the media, Balsa Bozovic, who spreads untruths in Serbia, completed a quote. The same Balsa Bozovic accuses us and the state of Serbia of spreading some Serbian world at the level of the Balkans and Europe. Well, that's what he did in 1990, so that's what Balsa Bozovic did in 1990. He tells me he will fight against Atlagic. Of course I'm going to fight the liars, so I did it in 1990, which is why I did it in 1971 against nationalism even in 1971 as a student at the time. Well, that's what I did in the Croatian Parliament in 1990, warning, and this is very important, then Franjo Tudjman, that I will never say to him the word - the public in the Croatian Parliament, but of course I have no problem with the Croats saying it, as I will never say the word of the Albanian here but of Shiptar, and I am glad that every Shiptar here says the word of the Albanian. There they tried to teach me Serbian, expelled from Montenegro, tried here and in the Serbian parliament. Well, you won't, gentlemen. I got a lawsuit from some CRTA NGO that's being funded by Vuk Jeremic and others that I need to be punished and I'm going to give them, I'm calling on the MEPs when I defend myself there. So, do you want to break the Serbian language? I'm glad when the Hungarian brothers speak their Hungarian language here, their Shiphars when they speak. Let them call it what they want, even though he was officially both Shipar and Arnautical and so on and Albanian and let him call whatever he wants. That's their problem, but I'm going to hold on to what's historic truth. And that's what a 19-year-old girl teaches me, who says she's a good diver. Well, let's get a little dive into the archives and libraries. People's MPs of the NGO must be honorable, for God's sake. Well, we have to pass a law on NGOs in this High House. People's MPs can't spit. Yesterday, Gilas's newspaper "Today" published false statements about this High House that SNS MPs had left this High House, which is a lie and a lie. Every day, every time in this High House, I will prove a lie. I swore that as long as I was a student, not only to him, but to anyone who tells lies. I'm a first-row professor, a professor must be an honorable man, must be a person, but it must be a judge. But it has to be a politician. My politicians be what Aristotle said - honorable men, not rich. Democracy is not built by gentlemen with wealth but by honor and honesty. Dear Jovic, by respecting you and the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Orlic, I apologize for taking a little more of my words, but something probably in me says that I have to say this for the sake of truth and justice. We swore here and me and Dragan Djilas while he was here, me and Balsa Bozovic while he was here, that we would tell the truth. It stands in the oath of the MPs of the people. In addition, politicians must be honorable people. These lies on a daily basis, these insults, they say that we spread hate language. I've never, ever offended a People's MP. They've been trying to mount it, they're installing it every day. You know, what they tried to do to me personally, I don't usually look back, I insulted an actor, I never mentioned him here. But he told me, I quote -- poor Serbia where Atlagic will direct social relations. You know what I've done, respected citizens, just changed my name – a poor country where this actor will direct. And, he declared an attack on himself, a replacement thesis, instead of him on me. When I quoted Gaga Antonijevic as saying he was corrupt, he said I was a disgrace to Serbia. He, for one, is the disgrace of Serbia, to come to Trebinje and Herzegovina, so let him tell the truth when he says - my Herzegovina. Let him show up downstairs, walk the streets of the city. I'm sorry, I'm a little emotional, and that means the professor has to be emotional, and so are the judges, because they have to tell the truth and stand up for the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3641	I thank you, Professor Atlagic. Since you've spoken to me, to tell you in two sentences, you don't really need a man to worry about whether any actions against him want to start some CRTA or what you've already named the people who worked there. The point is, with regard to these people, to those issues that you consider important. Their views are completely different. Their relationship to different national issues, I think, is best seen in a statement they made a few days ago, where they officially say that they, you know, were uncomfortable when Aleksandar Martinovic here spoke of Serbian victims. They find it very unpleasant to talk about it, to know about it, and their biggest inconvenience was the long and loud applause he received, which Aleksandar Martinovic deserved on that occasion. In the same text, they said they were uncomfortable listening to the long and loud applause that Gaga Antonijevic received because he came here and because it seemed first of all, and in this problem, a movie such as "Dara from Jasenovac" was recorded, which now happened and what the whole of Serbia knows that the president of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, personally stood behind the project. These are indicators of their relationship with these important national issues. When such people have a grudge against your work or anyone else's work, I don't think it's bad for either of us. And according to their oaths as MPs, each one has a relationship and shows that relationship. These former MPs of the former regime have shown their relationship to the oath and to this congregation by their attempts to rekindle the congregation. I think he's saying enough about everyone. Next reported for the word, MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3642	I thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis and it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I am here in the Assembly I was selected from the SNS list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and I represent the United Peasant Party whose president I am. Now that we have little time, firstly to support our president and our judicial system in the fight against crime and corruption, that all those who have done bad things must answer for it. First of all, for the selection of these new judges, normally, the profession has done its job, they are here on behalf of the judiciary, to be supported by the Assembly, but I wanted to say something about the problems of these small municipalities that once had basic courts, so they had judicial units, so they had trials, and now we don't have any of these things. In particular, one such municipality is the municipality of Srlig, such a municipality is Bela Palanka, Merošina and a number of municipalities in southeastern Serbia, and in all Serbia there are such municipalities where there is no possibility that people living in rural areas, agricultural producers, peasants and those who have leftover problems can say that these municipalities are an old municipality. where there are many old people, where they should leave their property to their heirs. The bottom line is that since we don't have any days in such municipalities, our people don't have any specific transportation from these villages to the centers in these municipalities, let alone to Nis where the center is. They have big problems. They don't leave in time, they make big expenses, and we come to the point that they don't have the opportunity to exercise their legal rights and the constitution of defined rights. Therefore, I would ask you, within my jurisdiction, that I have talked about it earlier, that at least in these municipalities, it is by judging the days that judges can come from Nis to Srlig, that is 20 minutes, that in this way they can help our fellow citizens. I specifically mean Srlig, and that means other municipalities where there are no basic courts, no days of judgment, and there are no judicial units. That's necessary, because in order for us to be all the same we need to have the same rights and the same opportunities, and this is one of the obligations that whoever has a problem achieves it through the court, and if he can't go to us in Srlig then he has to go to Nis. That's a really big expense. It's a difficult situation. In our midst, there is a great need for these people to be allowed to come to these municipalities for certain days, for judges from Nis to be able to do jobs. By the way, there is only one employee who works overeze, who does the reception of materials and archives. It's something that matters to all of us out there. From this place, as a man, I would ask you to, within your jurisdiction along with your colleagues to find an opportunity with the Ministry of Justice, to find the possibility to provide yourself in such environments by judging the days, that all of our people have the same rights and equal opportunities and not to make costs, and there is a difficult situation anyway. Once again, I, as president of the United Peasants' Party and as an MP, will support these judges' proposals, I will vote for it, because it is the right thing to do. On the other hand, I urge you, once again, to provide, within your jurisdiction, along with the Ministry of Justice, along with the President of the Nish Court, who has a wish, but needs some formal matter, so that they can provide judges with access to these small environments and that they can work on these cases. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3643	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3644	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, for us the social democratic stories of the judiciary are always at the top of the pyramid of our interest and we are always paying special attention to the appointment of new people, because we think that the righteous and successful judiciary is the key to the development of a country. You've seen a recent example of the United States under the grip of a malignant pulsism for a little kneeling and for a little democracy where it failed in the modern era, but the only pillar that defended democracy was the judiciary. The free judiciary there has shown that the judiciary rightly defends the integrity of a state, the freedom of people in it, and that the justice and independent judiciary is an engine in the development of a state. Therefore, today we will support and we are positive attitudes toward these mostly young people who are proposed. Clearly, they have gained relatively good experience, that they are educated according to the law. I'm glad that the full procedure is respected in accordance with the law. Of course, me and the people in my area often mention the problems our judiciary has, but I am glad that my predecessor, a colleague from my party, Mrs. Sanja Jefic, found a beautiful old one. One of the problems facing Serbia's courts today is the problem of delivering cases, or delivering deliveries, decisions, calls, and so on, but the New Market Criminal Court has indeed managed in one good way to resolve something that has failed to solve courts, for example, in Belgrade or Novi Sad, where delivery performance is less than 20%. This good example was the co-operation of the New Market Court or courts with the youth cooperative and the recruitment of courier services through this youth cooperative, which through a good education of these people and quality distribution managed to actually achieve results and reduce the costs of the court, while increasing the delivery of court materials on the territory of the city. Today we name for the first time a lot of judges in business courts in Kruševec and Kragujevac. I wish we could name them in Novi Pazar, because there is no commercial court in Novi Pazar, although Novi Pazar is known as the place where the heritage of micro-production really has a huge number of small businesses. People who deal with business for every problem they have must go to the Court of Commerce in the Kingdom. Somewhere before 2010, there was a decision that, I believe, is still in force today, to open up an outstretched office in the Court of Commerce in Novi Pazar. We had a recent reconstruction of the court building in Novi Pazar, and it envisioned, that is to say, the four judges of the Court of Commerce, or that department of the Kings that should exist in Novi Pazar. That's why I'm appealing and I'm going to continue to appeal to the judicial authorities to get rid of these departments and to get the work of that New Market Court office started as soon as possible, because it's overly necessary. When we talk about our courts, of course, it's very important that we modernise our courts, this country does and tries to do as much as it does property, to increase the transparency of the work of the courts and to respect the principle of the trial within a reasonable time. Unfortunately, in our country, there is a steady trend in the growth of the number of cases, especially in business courts, where we have 30% growth in business cases that should be tried in our courts, and that is why more is to ensure that a city that is the center of the region is supplied, that is to say, in Novi Pazar, that the department of economic court is provided, if no business court can already be established, even though Novi Pazar, by all criteria, deserves to have its own commercial court. The main problem in our society is corruption, it is nepotism, and I am glad that we adopted an extremely important anti-corruption law last week. This government is trying in every way to deal with the burning problem and it is present in Novi Pazar, but also in other major cities. As they say, in the big city, all the diseases failed to meet. Bigger city, more disease. Bigger city, more corruption. It seems to me that in all parts of this country we must face corruption sharply and firmly support an independent judicial system. That's what we're interested in today, but maybe ten, twenty years from now, when most of us aren't in politics. I'll finish one sentence with a great French writer. He says: “It’s not hard to be good, it’s hard to be just. “ Justice in our society is what we lack and what we need and what is healing, righteousness in relationships between people, righteousness toward our hard, close past, righteousness in business. This is what we Social Democracy Rasim Ljajic will insist on.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3645	Thank you, Mr. Butcher. The People's Messenger, Milenko Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3646	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. We are facing today the choice of judges and today the Assembly will function with this choice, along with other important functions - the selection of certain bodies. It was this very function that was most severely attacked, the function of the Assembly, most severely attacked in some previous period. It was attacked, I would say, on three sides -- by some judges, by some media and by some politicians. Well, let's see which judges, which media and which politicians have attacked this function of the Assembly, and at all costs insist that the Assembly be taken away from this right, so that judges choose for themselves according to that principle of children – Kolarić, Panic, we drink ourselves, we put ourselves to pieces, so now they pick themselves a little bit, to put themselves on certain functions. It's only a matter of time before someone else comes to mind, let's say, I don't know, what MPs wouldn't choose for their next terms, so we go to the end, to preserve all that independence of every branch of government. The main problem is that they lie to us, lying to Serbian citizens to give three branches of government, or four, as some theorists say, if we take the administration in particular, they must in practice. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. The branches of the government should control each other, complement each other, not be factually, physically and in any other way separate and antagonised, because it will bring the system itself to collapse. But an interesting question arises, since they keep telling us how the judiciary must at all costs be independent, which is true, but the question of whom is independent? I cannot accept that the judiciary is independent if it is independent of the Serbian government, but is therefore dependent on foreign governments. I can't accept that the independent judge who attacks Vlada or Vukic every day on the media is standing outside foreign embassies as a dog and waving his tail when he's released for three ropes and two cocktails. He hits Serbia, hits Vukic and says, "Look, I'm independent." You know, it's like I'd call myself a Barcelona football player right now. Who would believe that, let them believe that they are independent. One of them is often mentioned here, for a reason mentioned here, is critically mentioned here, because I guess as MPs, as some branch of government, we have the right to say our criticism about someone or there are some people who have not informed us about, but if the constitutional category is that Judge Majic is not to be spoken of, I ask you to inform us, that the MPs know that Judge Majic is protected by the Constitution and that he must not be mentioned in any context. Whatever you do, everything is allowed. Five days were conducted a survey on one media, the School Media. That's what we're reading right now about how he was stealing electricity, so he became a tycoon. Thirty-fivem euros stole electricity. Hey, did you steal the electricity from 35 million euros? So, a survey was conducted to make it an ideal candidate for Serbia's president and among those candidates is one judge. Did this judge say – excuse me, it affects my independence, don't classify me, I'm independent, I'm not in politics? Of course not, he's in politics. He couldn't wait to be considered a presidential candidate. Someone's counting on him. His tweets gave results, everything that's written on Twitter, books, stands. Hey, is the judge speaking in the political movement stands? The judge speaks at the political parties' stands? The judge is speaking in the stands, protesting, and I don't even know what everyone, who has nothing to do with the judiciary? Is that independence and I'm asking again what independence it is? He's independent of Vukic, but he's addicted to Gilas and Solak, so it's like independent? Well, it's not independent. I expect all these judges to approach their work in a different way and not do what Judge Majic did, and neither is he now mentioned as someone who has had interesting contacts with interesting people, safely interesting people, so when they tell him who he's had contacts with, then his court issues a statement that he hasn't seen who he was sitting at the table with. So, what was he doing? A hideout? Looking the other way? So is that independence? Well, that's not independence either. So, in addition to these judges, we have certain media who support it, which at all costs insist that no other branch of government, in this case legislative, has to do with the choice of judges in Serbia and these are the media Schools, the Gilas portals, this media empire that tries at all costs to exert its influence on certain judges, to keep that influence based since 2009, after this famous re-election of Bosko Ristic and DS, when we heard everything, that I did not repeat, on the committees of my parties, deciding who did, and who was not like the judge in Serbia and then we come to the politicians, and all of us from that yellow mile, are only fragmented and divided as amebes, so now instead of one party, when they were all there, and Jeremic, and all of all of us, and Tadić and others, everyone has their own party. Now they give us a lecture on what is and what is not an independent judiciary, because when they choose judges on the municipal committees of the party, it is an independent judiciary, and when judges choose the Assembly, it is not an independent judiciary, it is independent. At the very end, we come to something that is the abuse of justice committed by some politicians, most of which is preceded by Dragan Gilas. This man abuses the judiciary by filing a huge number of lawsuits against anyone who dares to mention him. I can boast he's accused me twice and I think it's an honor. There wouldn't be anything else, but, like this, being with Gilas and here on the other side is honor and pleasure. But something else is the problem. The point is that with a large number of lawsuits, with the media following you and these proceedings, it actually creates a different atmosphere than the one that should be in these independent courts, that your courts and judges are scared or afraid of what will happen, what will happen and send them a message in this way about what was directly told to that policeman – what are you going to do when the government changes? That's the message Gilas is sending. However, we should not be surprised that he sues political opponents. Over a hundred lawsuits he filed. Isn't that right, Copper? (Nebojsa Bakarec: four hundred.) Four hundred. There, I still bought it. So, four hundred lawsuits were filed, but the culmination is something else, and that's something I should give away, because I've criticised the judiciary a lot, a confession to the judiciary on what it did, and that's that Mr. Gilas finally sued the state of Serbia for a million dinars. So there are few 619m euros, few 35 apartments in downtown Belgrade, but another million dinars from the Serbian state to take. Then he threatens these days. If the conversation fails, he will be on the street. You were on the street, as we can see, you didn't achieve anything. It is the right of everyone in this country to protest when there is, in accordance with the law, a registered assembly, etc. As far as we're concerned, he can start protesting tomorrow, because blackmail won't force us to do anything, and we don't know what his demands are to accept, because he doesn't, and he doesn't, because they can't agree on anything. What is important, and to conclude in the end, this, dear citizens of Serbia, is the difference between us and them. We love Serbia, we fight for the state of Serbia, we support our president who does something every day to make Serbia better, whether it's new factories, new roads, highways, whether it's vaccines and new hospitals, if it's anything else. Tears are in our eyes when we see our proud tricolor in some contest, our breasts shake when we hear the words of the anthem "God of Justice", and he sues the state. Now, that's the difference between us and them. And that's why I'm convinced he'll never get the trust to run the state he's suing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3647	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3648	Thank you. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I will talk today about the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. Of course, I'm not gonna be taxing on who gets in, because I don't have the time or the time, but I'm gonna deal with our judiciary a little bit, the way it used to be, the way it is now. For starters, we all know how much SNS has done for the judiciary and the judicial system, from renovating most of the courts in Serbia to networking, so now, if you're on trial with someone, you don't have to wait 20 years to get in line, but at least 10 times faster. That's how we do it. Not to mention Ljiljana Malusic and to be convicted by Ljiljana Malusic, Jovanovic, Mr Bakarec and others, I have sources – Hello, Informer and the others, and we will go in turn. First of all, the Serbian Constitution guarantees the independence of judges in performing their judicial functions. The judge is only subject to the Constitution and the law. At least that's how it should be. I'm sure 98% like that. Judges are honorable, honest, responsible people. But there are those 1-2% where it's not exactly like that. Any influence on the judge in the performance of the judge is prohibited. That even stands in the highest legal act. Under the current law, the work of all judges and presidents is worth the board of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The Registrar further orders all courts to regularly deliver a report to the Ministry of Justice on the work of all judges. It used to be that when a priest passed through town, a doctor, a professor, I thought of teachers, of course, their profession, and the judge, took off his hat. Today, as far as the judge is concerned, of course, I mean these two percent, it's not exactly like that. But we're going in a row. The Court of Appeals judge, Mr Miodrag Majic, is a question of how independent and independent he is in the work. Let's just remember in 2009. He could choose where the judge would be -- whether it would be the Supreme Court in Belgrade or the Court of Appeal. And he fired the same guy, so he fired a thousand judges, there were prosecutors, the figure reaches 2,000 people in 2008. You're a disgrace. He chooses where, and the discharges of 2,000, thousands of judges and prosecutors will. It's a shame. That's how he works. The other 98% works with honor, I'm sure of it. Let's move on. There is a claim, the mass of claims exist, that Mr Majic, along with Judge Omer Hadziomerovic, probably for something, will not prejudge things, freed the "Gjilan Group". Gentlemen, do you remember who he is and what "Gnillan Group" is? The most hated group, who abused, killed, cut their heads, cut off their heads, cut off their organs, cut off women's breasts, burned their breasts, that's the "Gnillan group", raped them. In 2014, the Court of Appeal in Belgrade rightly freed members of the so-called The Gjilan Groups of the Kosovo Liberation Army, which ran from June to December 1999. Watch out! Free! Judge Majic considers himself part of the elite, as well as Mr. Gilas, and that elite imagined they were a special caste. I speak deliberately – caste, caste is specific to India, but they believe that this society is divided deeply and that they are the rich caste, and that everyone else falls under it – poor, and that poor people, imagine, and those who have a primary school, should not go on vacations, should not receive salaries. Can anyone in Serbia imagine what these people are saying? You're a disgrace. This same Đilas, this same Majic, because they work together under Gilas's command to shoot fingers, that rich man has 619m euros, has over 35 apartments, he did the Bridge on Ada for 400m, for 200m, you don't know where they are, and twice as much longer in France costs 200m, e, such as giving instructions to Majic what to Majic does. We now have a very stressful situation, but we did so in the Assembly, fortunately, we passed “Tian’s Law. ” The father of little Tijana, who tragically passed away, Igor Juric, in 2014, little Tijana was killed and we were here in the Assembly of All Powers trying to pass this law and we brought it in May of 2019, fortunately. In fact, “Tian’s Law ” instead of 30 and 40 years incarcerated a life sentence for a villain who raped, abused and killed a child. That's how the Republic of Serbia, headed by our President and Government, is how we do it here. We all voted, both the position and the opposition. However, although the law was passed, it remained a bitter taste due to the debate and disunity of the public that was conducted immediately before the law was passed. The main opponent, of course, guesses, was the Court of Appeals Judge Miodrag Majic, who justified his opposition by calling for human rights and documents brought into the area. So, the perpetrator, the criminal, has rights, and the one who's gone, in this case this innocent beautiful child, is gone. I don't understand, but that's Judge Majic, too. The same judge Majic, judge of the Court of Appeals, released in a second-degree procedure a person convicted of the promise of a 13-year-old girl. Majic, explaining the verdict, pointed out that this is the usual behavior of members of Roma nationality. It's a shame. That's not true. The Roma are a wonderful people, happy, dear, they love this Serbia, they live here. That's not true. It's not folklore. That's his opinion. Why did he do it, only he knows it. He was sentenced in the first degree procedure to five years in prison, and now he's been released. Soon he responded, of course, to Mr Igor Juric, who alarmed the public about the scandalous decision of Judge Majic. The court freed the man who promised the girl, and the child was pregnant. A child having a child, a 13-year-old child giving birth to a child. It's a shame. I'm sure these 98%, even 99%, will do their job with honor and integrity, and I wish them good luck. In the day of his vote, I will vote for these motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3649	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizens, 18th century. Some of our judges still haven't thrown it to the 18th century. The declaration says that all people are equal before the law, the 18th century. I'm asking future judges, who I believe will respect the Declaration of the Rights of Men and Citizens, and I'm asking the judges who were appointed, say, ten years ago, do they respect that equality before the law? If you don't respect it, then you don't punish evil. He who does not punish evil does this new evil. I believe, without being misunderstood, that some of our judges should be subject to serious judicial proceedings in violation of the Declaration of the right of man, equality before the law. I'm sure 5% of the people who are currently in prison are legally sentenced against some laws or regulations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the honor of not being equal in front of the law as an MP, unlike the other MPs. I guess I'm not worthy enough to throw, say, a lawyer, that I have the right to have former judges at the bar. I don't even have that right at the entrance to the National Assembly. I'm the one who needs to give the citizens security in the conduct of the judges in front of the law, the laws that we've passed here. Someone says we have no right to control the divine independence of our judges, and we make laws. In which way, and Emperor Dušan holds the Law and power, the cannon, it is the power to enforce the law. The law without power is powerless. We make laws, and unless we have the power, to oversee those who enforce the laws, just to monitor them. Then we turn their independence into this divine, and so divine independent judges, from the yellow deity inserted, say I have no rights as a stray dog. You were all witnesses, and the chosen one, set up, right, Mr. Jovic, faces have the right to be called official. So on the steps of the National Assembly, at the invitation of the President of the National Assembly, I have this status. If an attack of 15 hooligans is qualified as violent behavior in the group, and the attack took place 15 minutes before the National Assembly session or an hour and 15 minutes, I can't remember exactly, I think it was 15 minutes after that, when we wanted the opposition to have the signatures collected in municipalities and so on, and not at the notaries, I was attacked by some religious people on St. Mark. Only after four days did the prosecutor order the police to come and ask what happened, even though all the TVs transmitted the footage of that beating. Instead of criminal charges for assaulting an official, it is very quickly overqualified, and the First Basic, First General Prosecutor's Office, these are those who make judgments in favour of Bostic, Gilas and so on, and these teams, quickly qualified it, after four days, as violent behavior in the group. Neither I was attacked at the stadium, nor at the bar, and let's say former judge Pekovic, and I support that, and lawyer Petronijevic, I think, at a bar somewhere at midnight, a group of hooligans attacked, and I support the measure -- immediate detention for the attackers. They're in custody immediately. I support that, but I guess we, too, are entitled to equality under the 18th century Declaration of the Rights of Man. After four days, right Mr. Martinovic, only after the hunger strike of Mr. Martinovic and Mrs. Christmas, did the prosecutor find the strength to say that the police had legitimateized the attackers, but the prosecution said to release them on the first day, after four days they remembered to take a statement from me and go into some procession, violent behavior in the group. So I'm not equal to lawyers or former judges. I'm not equal to Borko Stefanovic either. You'll see I'm not the same. I'm not equal until now, and I won't even be the same in the matter of judgment. Remember the attack on Borko Stefanovic, who I convicted, convicted and sought, played messages to everyone I thought could help in the current arrest of the perpetrators of the attack against him in front of the local community in Krusevec, and this resulted in the arrest, detention of the responsible persons for the attack, with a member of the executive authority, a police officer, defending him and getting some punches. It seems to me, and decidedly, I don't know if it's justifiable, with years of imprisonment. I was attacked at the entrance to the National Assembly as a National MP. It is likely that MPs have fewer rights than citizens entering the local community. Let me agree with that, too. Look, somebody dumped a stray dog somewhere in Slavia, right? That procedure, which I condemn, has resulted in arrest. Will one of the judges and prosecutors explain to me that my rights are less than the rights of stray dogs? I don't support what someone did and dumped a stray dog, but two days of searching for a man. He was found in the King, and he said that the stray dog wanted to bite him, he kicked him. I also support bringing him in, but how is it that this is the case with me only after four days, after the hunger strike between Mr. Martinovic and Mrs. Christmas? Are my rights smaller just because I'm against the yellow ones? Do the judges think that those who appointed them then, do they think that they should disqualify me as a political opponent from the law? It's Marian, it doesn't matter. Go find some insult that I have sent to any MP of the people, and they treat me as a face unworthy, for I have done something in the congregation. I in the congregation, except for what I'm saying, sometimes I'm ironic, I admit it, but irony is my advantage, as a simple dictionary is my advantage because the people understand me. He understands me and those 5% who do wrong because our judges... Now to exercise control, believe me, there are even half the judges in the workplace among those who are left behind. As a former parliamentary group, Mr. Komlenski, Mr. Torbica, Mrs. Karadzic and I, we suggested that we equalise the rights of judges for violations with these judges because the judges have dozens of clients during the day, and these judges do not come. When I get to court, the judge isn't here, like he's sick, nobody checks it out, and if I don't get to court, I need a huge doctor's trust, etc. to prove that I was sick. We're not equal in front of the law. I have a feeling that there are noble judges, that they can't be touched just because they're judges. Mr. Majic, who I have often mentioned, Mrs. Malusic has now repeated this, is the best example that the law is not equal for all judges. Some are divine, independent, and this one is planetaryly independent. He can do anything. He can qualify politically whoever arrives. He can go on political shows without the permission of the court's elder. He can do anything. He can move up two steps. You know, when you run over a lot of stairs, it should result in some fall. He could have been from the municipal court, the municipal court, as it was called, on which he passed, we know how he went through that DSS minister's cross, because he went to the cottage, attacked him until he was declared a judge, and then, behold, across the foreign embassies, almost clouded himself. From the basic court of appeals. I'm asking you now-- how can I from the basic court go to an appeal court? I can if I'm a T-shirt. A T-shirt is a man with special rights. I'm telling you, what experience did he have when he became judge of the Court of Appeal, but to be honest? Mr. Joviæ, to be honest, how does someone who has never resolved complaints not go through a higher court, who has resolved complaints from a lower court, so he has some experience, so he can be an appeal judge, but an actual appeal judge, that he has experience in solving it? It is no wonder, then, that a man without any experience frees a pedophile, releases the "Gjilan Group" that killed 80 Serbs, in very harsh ways "slightly taking of the soul". How does that happen? How's it going, say, how's it gonna happen that the shooters at Borko Stefanovic get 11 years old, and you're probably going to honor mine out there somewhere? How can it happen, I'll bring in, I don't know how many court proceedings I have for words spoken for a pay phone? He says the MP cannot be called to criminal and other responsibility for an opinion or vote when performing his post. You should add to the constitution that you and I have sworn - for Rističević it is not. Then I'll understand that, because I'm a being of lower value. I've already proven to you that in front of judges, I'm worth less to prosecutors than a stray dog. It's probably what my political opponents are looking forward to, but I'm not angry, I think all living things, not all the citizens that read in the Declaration of Human Rights, have the right to equality before the law. If someone kicks a stray dog, he'll have to be punished for it and convicted, but if someone kicks the MP, so don't honor him, even if you do, that initial prosecutor even if he starts something, etc. And that neither you nor we should be ashamed of ourselves in the sight of the citizens. I can imagine all the injustices in front of ordinary citizens who have no right to come here and talk about injustice in court. I can imagine all the injustices there are and how many people are incarcerated because of the mistakes of the courts, and I'm not going to pick them up individually, because right now, I could start by counting who Fidel Castro is all the convictions that are very suspicious of me that I got up in the office, which, if I started to discuss, would be wrong to discuss one thing and to ignore the other 100. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are expected to release Bosko Obradovic and his team of hooligans, alleged believers, from being punished with even a third of the penalties they have been punished by those in Krusevec, you have rightly punished them, no one has the right to punish anyone else, nor to attack him because he has other political beliefs. I'm not asking for a lawsuit against the people who pinched me here, spat on me, threatened me, watched out in the paper that people asked me to be beaten by MPs because they thought I was wrong and nobody reacted. I don't see convictions for assault, incursion in RTS, motor saws, etc. I don't see any of it. I don't see any convictions for trying to break into the presidency. Someone here said, as the gentleman said before me, “manitic behavior in America, ” etc., as their courts resolved. Most of these people who condemn events in America as a violation of democracy are quite normal incursions to the National Assembly, beating up MPs. Imagine, no congressman was beaten up in Congress. At five meters, they killed a woman, five meters away, because so, Mr. Marinkovic, with five meters behind the ragastol in his door, he killed a war veteran in Congress. I'm not asking our police to kill here. I was against honoring a journalist, if it was her, who wouldn't say the police were throwing stones, that the policeman turned around and said, "But ma'am, tell them to throw us all the time." I'm against any cop breaking both legs and no one answering. Every stone tossing on cops, and throwing weights and a few kilos, is attempted murder. I ask you: Who is it that is punished, and is it equality before the law? Let me ask you about that Supreme Court of Timocka. When I was talking here that the judges who judge in certain cases are worse than those who are found guilty. That's what I said here two or three years ago several times. Isn't it proof of the events that last with criminals and the development of crime? Isn't that proof to you that some of the judges who let such a kind of criminal get away with evil, but did a new evil? So that saying is true. Evil was not punished. When you don't punish evil in court, then you've made the assumption that a new evil is done and that's evidence, and that's what it was, if you don't punish the carrying of a gun, if you don't punish, I don't know what, put on a pair of pins, you've allowed and allowed a greater evil to be committed and to result in a dozen deaths. Now I'm asking, is the judge who did this not worse than the ones he was judging? I say it is. In the Supreme Court when you file a false lawsuit, when I file this printed medium, when I type into a Google my name and last name, I think I'm Osama Bin Laden. That's it, I don't know what I did. I don't have companies, it says I have companies. I don't owe any taxes, it says I owe a tax. I've never done anything with the Stock Reserve Directorate, says I robbed her, etc. When I sue and bring in confirmations, I bring in black-on-white certificates like this, all confirmations taken out the next day, court proceedings take six years. That is equality before the court and judgment within a reasonable time. Why equality? When Gilas judges, it'll be legal in six months. We are the first government to be persecuted by the opposition and by the judicial way and by the violent way. We are the first government to be beaten by the opposition. In the end, the only thing I ask of you and the new judges is for us all to be equal in front of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3651	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word has a national MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3652	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear guests, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us with decisions on the choice of judges who are elected for the first time. I hope that they will perform the function we choose with honor and security. The judiciary as the third branch of government is independent and must be the pillar of one rule of law. It is one of the priorities of the SNS, that the judiciary is stable, independent and that unlike the judge's predecessors, we choose on the basis of their biographies, not on the basis of the respective party books. Also, on this occasion, I would appeal to the prosecution and to the judiciary itself that proceedings pending should not be delayed indefinitely, that when there is clear evidence, the prosecution must conduct an extensive investigation. The latest developments, the arrests of one of the most notorious criminal groups that have worked in our fields tell us about the readiness and determination of our country, the fight against crime and corruption, as President Aleksandar Vukic himself stressed in forming the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In recent days, you can see people hiding behind SNS, being brought into police stations. This unequivocally indicates that there are no protecteds and that no SNS membership book will be privileged in relation to any other citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I also believe that these institutions of the judiciary should react when, in certain media that are controlled by one tycoon in Serbia, they are the most disgusting lies and lies about the president, about his family, about all of us here, you would have to react, that they have to react when someone draws a target at the head and organizes, when criminalising the president, but also his whole family. How independent and objective these media are tell us yesterday's event that took place right here. When their officials insult us from the SNS, it is considered legitimate and it is silenced on their media. However, when our colleague dares to respond to them at their level, they transfer it to their media as an invitation to the lynch, as an invitation to murder. I believe that all of us here who are present today, who listened yesterday to a colleague of the Bakers, can testify that at no time has he called anyone to murder, nor to anyone's lynch. However, in the media controlled by tycoon Dragan Gilas, based in Luxembourg, it is not so presented. Why doesn't Dragan Gilas and his mascots fit on those public messages of theirs and tell some truth? For example, immunisation in Serbia is highly organized. Why don't they say that the same Dragan Gilas has been vaccinated, but also received a renaissance although he had doubts publicly about the immunisation itself in Serbia? Why do they not say that we are among the first to immunize the population in both Serbia and Europe, but also in the world, that in a very short time we have built two hoofs of hospitals in order to protect the health of our citizens, that in addition to all the problems that have hit us because of the pandemic, we do not stop, but we continue with major infrastructure projects? That foreign investment did not stop, but rather at this point we have announced new foreign investments. Despite the difficult economic situation, we have the best possible package of measures to help the economy. Besides, we're instituting social dialogue, we were just here yesterday discussing helping infrastructure in culture, trying in these difficult times, in this crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, we're trying not to neglect any segment of our society. That is why I appeal to you, to the judiciary to discuss more in detail and statements, but also to parts of the opposition leaders for the protection of the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I will support the set of these decisions in the voting day along with my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3653	I thank Mrs. Matovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3654	Dear Chairman, Mr Orlic, the honourable representatives of the VSS, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, at the very beginning, I must point out that it is always awkward to speak somehow after the more experienced fellow MPs, because the amount of information they read as well as the knowledge they possess somehow brings us into a situation that we will repeat after them, but it is certainly a good experience and it is a great help to us younger ones, because then we find that there are some other things or affairs that we didn't know or we haven't been able to come to them. In order not to repeat myself, with the already mentioned older colleagues, I want to look back at some of the things from the point of view of the citizens who voted for us and I think not enough times here, one fact has been mentioned, which is that a huge mistrust in the judiciary occurred right after that 2009 judicial reform when in one day more than 1,000 people were out of work and I mean the consequences of such a disastrous move by the former DS regime we feel today. Accumulated processes, lost objects. The items that last for many years, some decades have put the whole country in a position to ask the citizens with the right to find their justice when they seek it in court? The people who were in power at the time, and today represent one part of the opposition, led by Dragan Đilas and Vuk Jeremic, have done something that no one could have imagined in the words of your colleagues, such an example is unremembered anywhere in the world. What is becoming striking today is the fact that the people who, and we heard earlier, on their municipal committees, and somewhere with the local committees of party organizations, chose judges, today oppose this way of choosing judges. It is amazing for me to hear in the presentation of one of the previous MPs that a judge or prosecutor is suitable because he is more or less friendly. The other one is a calm conscience, and on the other hand, it doesn't seem corrupt. So if we read all of this one more time and the citizens were to pay full attention to everything they hear, would we, as MPs here, ask ourselves that as Mr. Risticevic rightly expects some justice in court? Do any of these people who have been elected in this way continue to serve as judges? If his basic recommendation is that he is a DS member or his wife is a DS official, and he listens to your wife, so what justice can Serbian citizens hope for? Fortunately, these times have passed and I believe and in this period there are things where no citizens are equal, especially representatives of the SNS or its officials. Mr. Risticevic talked about how he is not equal and I absolutely agree with him. From someone who was apparently the victim, they tried to lie and some attacks to make him a man who did, and he ran into 15 people himself, that his jacket was torn out, and that the key chain, it seems to me, Mr. Risticevic, you correct me, was presented as a knife, so for days on the media under the direct management of Dragan Djilas, you could see that Marijan Rističević was dangerous and that he wanted to endanger the safety of Bosko Obradovic. What concerns is the fact that here today we do not see or see what the outcome will be in that case, just as for the apparent beating in front of many people, in front of many cameras to beat up two journalists while only doing their job as Gordana Seljec and Maru Dragovic. I don't know what sanctions are final, except that they laughed at them, so they laughed at their media and called their statements "Mara Dragovic and Gordana Zelec hit on the head". Here you can see how hypocrisy is and how ready someone is to go for the degradation of anyone who doesn't work in a way that they think is necessary or simply disagrees with them. As far as the election of new judges is concerned, I hope they will work by conscience and by the letter of the law. I also want to tell these people to be brave and persistent and to fight and work in the interests of the people and always make sure that every citizen is equal, and I don't know if any of them will be in a position today, tomorrow or in some year to find an opportunity to assess whether it's necessary to react when, for example, it's necessary. The endangered security of the family of one Alexander Vukic, who is elected by citizens as president of Serbia, and whether someone will deal with the fact that, not for months now, but years ago, we are able to see on social networks, in shows, in print media under direct control of Dragan Gilas on a daily basis targets drawn on Alexander Vukic, on Andrej Vukic, Milic, Danila, and on the Vukan that I think may be three and a half years old. As long as Alexander Vukic is in a subordinate role and his rights are not respected just because he is a representative of the SNS or is president, we will have a problem and we will not have full confidence in the judiciary and in the prosecution. That's what I'm gonna end up with. Today he is one of the officials of a new party, I can no longer understand how many parties came from the DS regime, so Vuk Jeremic founded his own one, in order to control Dragan Djilas, his official Miroslav Aleksic received a verdict before the First Basic Court that he was a liar. That he lied when the Vukic family, first of all, brought Andrej Vukic into contact with the affair "Jovanjica". Today he again announced some new affairs, Jovanica two, three, four, without apologizing and saying yes, I lied that Andrej Vukic had something to do with "Jovanja", and I lied that Alexander Vukic was involved in it. He's told a lot of lies today. Now the only question is, as long as these lies are allowed to them, and as long as they can go in those lies and when petty politics, the desire to grab any cheap political point or vote more, turns into a direct target and criminalisation of the family, in this case Alexander Vukic. I'm in favour of everyone being the same before the law, so if I ever make a mistake, even if I'm out of the walking passage to bear the consequences. But I am also for the people who have ruined this country to degrade, and have made themselves millionaires, such as Dragan Gilas, by law enforcement, as of March 12th, and they provide answers to some questions, but also when they call for the murder of President Alexander Vukic, so that some letter of law can be found for them to ban them. I wish the new judges a lot of happiness, I want a lot of success and, above all, courage and perseverance, and let them judge, as they say, in the name of the people, because it is the greatest honor to protect our country and our citizens. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3655	I thank Mr. Mirkovic. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3656	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will refer to the previous speakers, namely what Mirkovic, Risticevic and my colleague Jovanovic said, since I think they hit the centre when it comes to our judicial system, when it comes to all of our society's anomalies, and about the functioning of the judicial system and what we are talking about today, which is, of course, the choice of new judges, the first time in office and which should be pillars, i.e. the bearers of the judicial authority in the coming period, which, of course, is perhaps the most significant link in the domain of further progress of the state and is related to the progress of every area of social life from politics, geopolitical, economics, economic growth, therefore, is related to all these aspects of our development and, of course, the development, the improvement and well-being of our citizens. My colleague Jovanovic has well noted that some judges and some parts of the judicial authority, the fact that the Constitution writes and that in democratic societies, in democratic systems, such as Serbia definitely is, the judicial, executive and legislative authority are independent of each other, does not mean that they are absolutely outlawed from one another and does not mean that any of these levels of government should and have the right not to answer to anyone. All of us and here in this highly respected home in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as MPs, you in the judicial authority, our colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have the same employer. It is the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is the people of Serbia, and we all answer to it, and we are obliged to work together on that unique goal that we, as public deputies, should fulfill and work committedly on, which is the interest of our people, the interest of our citizens. But it cannot be the interest of our people, the interest of our citizens when we are the only country in Europe, there is Mr. Risticevic right, I mean the only MP, a member of parliament in some European state still under way, I don't know whether Mr. Risticevic is still running the procedure for publicly spoken words and here in this high House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was, of course, the expression of his policy and his political stance. He elaborated it much better. Of course it doesn't just affect him, of course it doesn't affect us here who need to do it, who should be free-thinking, who we should make decisions of importance for our citizens and for the progress of our country, so this applies to all our citizens, to their everyday life and to the functioning of institutions here in our country. Of course, such behavior and participation in the political life of certain judges is not good for our society. They can't have judicial authority and individual judges can't have double arches, be when they want to be independent, independent of the people, independent of parliament, and be dependent on foreign centres of power and be dependent on them and be imperative in their lives to go to some foreign embassy and be part of some fancy story of their own and some of their private aspects of life that live with very decent earnings. With profits that can provide them with exactly what we have been talking about all day today, which is their independent action and action by law and justice and in the same way towards every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. My colleagues mentioned the United States before. I want to tell you that the Supreme Court of the United States since 1869 has numbered nine members. That number hasn't changed since then, so over 150 years. The US Supreme Court's term of office will last for life unless the judge himself resigns or dies. Do you know who's proposing judges of the Supreme Court in America? The President of the United States and approved by the Senate with a two-thirds majority, i.e. it is necessary in the Senate 63 out of 100 senators to confirm the proposal by the President of the United States. I really don't see the reason, and I can't find a logic to get into a situation that if a country that is rapidly and dynamically developing, which is the engine of the development of this entire region, we're introducing some new practice here and we're introducing power centers into the functioning of our state system and we're going into this situation to get judges to choose themselves. Is it possible for anyone within the judicial authority to think of the idea that it would be good for judges to choose between themselves without doing it in part by institutions such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Those people who have received, in fact, and who are the only ones relevant, along with the President of the Republic who convincingly won the votes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in direct elections, the only one who owns this kind of decision and the only people responsible for the functioning of all three branches of government in our country. We are as responsible here as most, and we have to say what is the practice of democratically developed countries and we have to send a message, not to interfere, but to encourage, to send out of these benches a message to encourage the judiciary and judges to do their job just as independently and precisely without the pressure of anyone, whether they are tycoons, whether they are certain media and without any need to judge you, that they have any need to be attracted to anyone. They don't do their job to make someone like them, to like someone at a foreign embassy. They shouldn't, in my humble opinion, I'm not a lawyer, there's Aleksandar Martinovic, sitting next to me, but is it possible for a judge to be part of an NGO? Is it possible that the judge is making political statements? That judge has to make a deal with himself, I'm specifically talking about Judge Majic, so I don't want to avoid for any reason, I guess I'm right here, I guess I'm not going to pass as Marian Risticevic, that someone is suing me for a spoken word here is political. He works in the "NGO" sector, he does international projects. Wait, people, let's make a deal, and they come and then lecture on whether what we're doing, whether it's democratic processes or not, and the same judge let the "Gjilan Group" loose twenty years ago, which is a couple of excellencies example of how it doesn't take the judicial authority to behave when it comes to its role and when it comes to the state and those who have vitally threatened the interests of this country and this people. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many people were arrested in the protest and when the protesters entered the Capitol Hill on January 6th? Over 300 people have been arrested, 80% of those 300 people arrested are still in custody and threatened with prison from 30 to life imprisonment. Some of them are accused of terrorism. We are here, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, as was the case with Ristic's colleague, and we are still moving targets for anyone who doesn't like our policy, who doesn't like how we dress, who doesn't like what we think freely, as our party president and president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic. If they attacked Risticevic, what is guaranteed to me or my colleague Martinovic or my colleagues, what is guaranteed to them that someone will not attack them on the street, encouraged by the fact that Rističević attacked him, that the minors lynched him here in front of his building where he works and the workplace, where he comes every day and makes a fair profit of his salary? What message is being sent? Why aren't these people convicted? Why isn't that over? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why does it not prove that Serbia is really a legal state, that this branch of government is doing its job effectively and efficiently and that it shows to all those who want to be aggressive, who want to attack other people, who want to take justice into their own hands, that this is not possible in Serbia? That example, of course, he stated, cannot be mentioned in the end, and all those who belong to power centers here in our country and the work of our political government, unfortunately, the work of organized criminals and drug cartels, people who deal with drug trafficking and all other mafia and criminal affairs to strike down the one who is their biggest enemy in this fight that should be common to us here in the legislative and our colleagues in the government, but also to you in the judicial government, and that is to fight organized crime, and it is a ruthless and uncompromising fight against corruption and all of these anomalies that appear and which are part of the functioning of this society. These constant attacks, this dehumanization of Vukic and his family, which my colleagues have spoken of, resulted in one of the most insecure, the worst drug clans and mobs here in the entire region, perhaps in Europe, who have prepared, and I have no problem saying so, in coordination with domestic power centers and certain foreign power centers, the murder of the President of the Republic. I believe that at the end of all these processes, which I also hope and encourage the judges and the judicial authority to make it quick, to make it effective, to be a short process, and to all those who have done so and who have committed to the personification of the country's modernisation, the freedom of this country and these authorities today, all of those values that we have advocated and that we have advocated for the past six years and the success that Serbia has done and done in the previous period, do not let what is happening to us through history happen to us. So, that anyone who wants to modernise this country, that anyone who wants to make reforms in this country, do something new, get us out of that someone, how can I say, before the graying of communism, socialism, the egalitarianism in which we have burned, in which we were not of our own free will for over 50, 60 years, when we finally got a chance to live as any modern people and people who, respecting their interests and respecting their citizens, went out to a green branch, like Poland, like that is Hungary. There are light examples. These are with Vukic, perhaps the only freedom leaders in Europe. Yes, I'll say it publicly, it is Victor Orban, it is our colleagues in Poland. Is it a shame to say that Vukic here is the only leader in the region and is it a shame that he is someone who supports and who is a minister of the Balkan politics to the Balkan peoples? Is it a shame that we want to govern our own destiny? Is it a shame that we want to preserve our integrity, our letter, our culture as one great nation, as one people who deserves to live well, but who has the right, as well as other peoples, to protect their national interests? While the others below, with whom we have disputes and with whom we wish to compromise, welcome EU representative, Mr Lajcak, with an Albanian flag in Pristina, Kosovo and Metohija, I have not heard Viola Von Kramon, nor Ursula von der Lyon or any of the other European officials get very excited about it. But that's why they get measles when they see the flag of Republika Srpska here in Belgrade, Banja Luka or Sarajevo. People, do you realize that Vukic has been exposed to pressures all these six years, that he will be exposed to pressures and that all of this comes from those who come from the judicial system, who, in their opinion, go to foreign embassies and foreign centres of power, that this is actually directed not only against Vukic, but also against our state and against the Serb people? The Serbian Progressive Party will always be loud and will always be a loud reminder against all this happening, having and giving hands to all those who want to work for the benefit of this country, and to people in the government who need to do their job, but also to people who are doing the judicial system, who are supposed to be patriots, it is their constitutional task, not to be more fond of the lawn of some foreign embassy than to do their job in accordance with the laws and the constitution. It will be no problem for us to say, though we know, both Mirkovic and Jovanovic and Risticevic and all the younger colleagues who talked about it, that we will be crucified because all these tycoons, of course, have their own media. We will be crucified on social networks, but that is not a problem for us, because we know that we are leading Serbia in the right direction, because we are following the policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, who is rightly protecting and defending the interests of the Republic of Serbia. We will not allow any criminal gang or clan, not one cartel, of course, not one individual, not one colleague, so it was from the SNS or from the parties that made up our coalition, to tear down Serbia, to bring down Vukic and to bring down everything that SNS led with Vucica for the past six years. So, I want all these judges who are elected to do their job in accordance with their security, in accordance with their ethics and ethical principles. Only that, nothing else the SNS and this majority here in parliament are looking for. Only by law and justice, only in accordance with Serbia's interests. But don't expect us to keep quiet about the politics of those people who shouldn't be involved in politics, that we'll keep quiet about relationships between people who are in the judiciary with criminals and with representatives of criminal gangs. We won't believe, of course, when they say -- no, we haven't seen those people, who are definitely, I can't say from this pay phone right now, but definitely something has been prepared. I hope and encourage you, encourage these new judges who do their job to do their job and keep their processes brief, to be effective and to be in line with the interests of this country. To support those who support the rule of not rights, but the rule of law, which we are here, the Serbian Progressive Party, we personify it, is the highest form of patriotism and you will always have the support of us if you implement such a kind of independent policy, a policy that has a first and primary interest -- the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the integrity of this country and the interest of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3657	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. And it is good that you reminded the National Assembly of the events at the Capitol Hill, both you and Ambassador Risticevic. You know, it would be black humor if someone made a joke, so to speak, because of those events, he wasn't in the skin of the United States when Freedom House sent them a report next year. And you know why I say that? Yesterday, a report by the Freedom House for Serbia was published, and we, as they count it, have two points less than the previous year. And you know why two points less? One, they say, because they are not satisfied with the police reaction during the attack on this home of the National Assembly last year, they say - there was too much force. Unlike the U.S., no one did, thank God they didn't, no one paid with their heads. However, we were wrong about that. I'm sure it would have been a lot better, we wouldn't have lost that point, maybe we'd have gotten some extra points if it hadn't been for the police's reaction at all, the police who stood in place for hours while it was covered with stones, while people had broken bones on their hands and on their feet and heads. It would have been much better if they had managed to burn down the National Assembly for those who wanted to do it and didn't hide it, who were throwing torches at it. Since this has to do with us as MPs, I say so, and this second point goes directly to your soul, ladies and gentlemen of the people, because they say in that report that before the elections we had last year, there has been a change of certain laws and they say exactly which -- a law that reduces the censorship and the law that increases the number of women in the Assembly. That's why. It's, you know, a big mistake on our part, something totally unforgivable. We got another point less. So, in the opinion of the esteemed Freedom House, it would be better if it were harder to enter the National Assembly, it would be better if the censorship were higher and the woman in the National Assembly had less. So, in that sense, I want all the happiness of the United States when they get the report after the Capitol Hill this year and those in the Netherlands where water cannons are used, and so much happiness to all who have fewer women in their national parliament compared to Serbia. It's rare for those who have such a high percentage, which we're certainly proud of. Yeah, and these things are literally all you need to know when anyone tells you about Freedom House, in any context. By application of the word, the People's Messenger Milos Bandur.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3658	Thank you. Dear President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, today we have before us the choice of judges who are first elected to the post in Belgrade, Kruševec, Kragujevac, in economic, basic and criminal courts. I looked at the material, I read the material and the biographies of the candidates and what I can praise and what I like about it is that almost all candidates, except for one, have finished state law schools and that it was about candidates who ended up, except for two, three candidates who did it somewhere at 27, 28 years old, but there were probably some legitimate reasons. What we lack in biography, and perhaps just as information might be interesting to us, but it couldn't affect, nor would it affect any of our decisions, is the average score during our studies. You know, among the judges, I think all of us MPs like to see good students, students who had a high average and a high average grade during academic studies. Also, there is no data, but it wouldn't be bad if it were working at the level of the High Council of the Judiciary, it's to make one record of family ties in the judiciary. I don't know a lot of such examples personally, but I know a few examples, and I know that there are, far less than in some other areas, such as education, or university, but the records of family ties, or taking into account nepotism is very important because nepotism is actually an introduction or it can be a good basis for the existence of corruption in the judiciary. Of course, I fully agree with what counterpart Milenko Jovanovic said when he said what independence some judges seek for themselves, that is, the judiciary is looking for for itself. So they are independent, they are completely independent in doing their job, and we all want them to be independent, that's the goal of all the objectives in the field of justice, to be independent, to be fair, of course, and to judge according to the law. The fact that we confirm the choice of judges doesn't affect at all or almost affect the whole process. The competition is announced, people apply, the High Council of the judiciary forms commissions, commissions review applications, according to the law, rules, closer rules for selection, certain criteria, and these are all like some filters, miss certain candidates, and ultimately propose candidates that we can only confirm or reject if one of us, and we come from all cities, municipalities, parts of the Republic of Serbia, we have evidence or concrete information that the candidate in our midst is not worthy of judicial function or has some other problems that disqualify him for that function. So, I don't see that, apart from what we're confirming at the end of the process, that choice, we are, to some extent or whatever, affecting the whole process, all of this happens within the judiciary, within the judicial authority, and it's natural for the National Assembly to confirm it. You know, I want to, uh, tie this to a statement by my colleague, Jovanovic, to compare it to the university. You know, the university is completely autonomous. In terms of teaching, the choice of study programmes, the choice of teachers in the title, is also completely independent. He's addicted only to funding when it comes to state universities and colleges. But this autonomy has been around since the '80s, so to date it's caused major problems at the university in terms of nepotism. I am not against autonomy in these areas that I have cited, but autonomy in choosing associates, assistants, in the election to call has led to today's colleges and universities in Serbia, and especially in the state, because there is best paid, or salaries are best, and not much is done, we have mostly children of professors. So, lack of consciousness in people, lack of conscience in people has created a problem, and they have had full or total autonomy in that area. I'm afraid now what would happen if the judges were allowed to choose themselves and confirm themselves. Maybe you'd set yourself up in the same or worse situation than the one we came to with the university. Of course the highest number of judges, I'm deeply convinced, honestly doing my job. Besides, there are mechanisms of control, I know that there are commissions that value the work of judges and courts, that the quality of their work is quantified on the basis of some criteria, based on the number of confirmed judgments on higher court cases. Thus, there is an assessment of the quality of the work of judges who are very measurable and who serve some further choices, or careers. However, in some situations that are problematic and where certain dilemmas exist, we are not sure how honest someone has done his job and whether there are corrupt relationships with certain criminal or other circles. Perhaps it would be good if the High Judicial Council were to introduce or introduce a polygraph for the needs of the High Judicial Council in order to bring a closer assessment of someone or a closer solution to someone’s choice. At that point, I have an extremely high trust, and I think it should be used. Of course, the results of dating to a polygraph, or lie detector, should not always be publicly known, but should be known to someone who decides or defines himself. When it comes to the polygraph I just mentioned, I'm just surprised that some public figures, i.e. people who perform public functions these days have refused to go on a polygraph, as far as the events we all read and listen to these days are concerned with the mob and the high crime deal. I've always felt that someone who does public work or performs public function must always be ready to undergo a polygraph test. It was really my attitude forever, and it was in 2017 when I personally started a car in Nis in front of the house. Of course, those who ordered it and those who did it later wrote that I did it to myself to promote myself politically and make a political sacrifice of myself. Now, apart from some damage you've suffered and the threats you now have the accusation of doing it to yourself. That's why I asked for a polygraph and I went to this polygraph and my closest associates. Some police agreed to examine it, for others it was completely excessive. Of course, we've all been through it, but the problem is that those who are suspected of being behind it didn't want to go on a polygraph and nothing happened. Some even got good jobs, etc. Therefore, I believe that this attitude I heard yesterday in the media, which I fully support, that anyone who deals with public affairs must go to a polygraph on certain issues. Of course, no one needs to question anyone for life, because then questions and answers can be ambiguous and can give a completely wrong conclusion, but for a particular crime or a particular substance precisely defined, defined questions that are unequivocal, anyone who deals with public affairs must be prepared to do so, especially some who have rocked this country and have been in extremely high political positions. So, by the way, I wanted to comment on what's going on these days and what's very relevant. I have the impression that perhaps a bigger problem than the judiciary is the prosecution, which is not independent, it is independent, but very often the prosecution has an excuse, a good excuse to transfer part of its responsibility to the police, and the police are part of their responsibility to the prosecution. When you sit down to have coffee with one or the other, they complain about each other. The D.A.'s office is transferring responsibility to the police, the police on them. Who's to blame I don't know, but it's very often that certain objects wait in drawers until they pass certain deadlines or even go to court. So that's just where the whole story ends up in the D.A.'s drawers. That's mostly what I wanted to say on this subject. To all those who will be voted for, I hope, because they have been proposed and there are probably no objections from colleagues to individual candidates, I want success in future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3659	I thank the People's MP, Bandur. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm taking a break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first next presentation is the People's MP, Mr. Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3660	We're going back to work. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3661	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, I am very pleased that in the debate so far, and I hope that such a debate will be concluded, we have not heard any objections from the MPs at the proposed candidates, Daniel Milošević, Boris Miljković, Miroljub Miskovic, Danil Grujic, Bojan Bojic Morar, Sanda Marić, Biljana Krstajić, Vukadine Brajušković, Milica Gorovic, Luka Pantelic, Jovana Živković, Nikola Djaković, Sonja Žiljana Ilic, Sanja Vujačić, Jelena Veljković, Angelo Djerasimović, Marina Miloša Mirković, Marina Petrović, Sonja Popovski Zaljski, Bojana Simović, Marina Jovanović, Zorica Jovanović, Miljeljić, Mila Žalić Žalić Žalić, Žalić. It is a great pleasure, and I hope that never in their future career, which I hope will begin tomorrow by transferring the work of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia into their hands, to become part of the judicial authority. There will never be a topic of this kind of discussion that we've heard today. What respected youngsters can also allow themselves, colleagues, to understand that the criticisms they heard today are, by my assessment, fortunately still on a small number of judges. I hope that never their names, or their work will be mentioned in this House or elsewhere in a negative context, and then one day we will be happy and satisfied because today's work, the previous and several months of work of the High Council of the judiciary, which had a very serious and difficult task of choosing amongst the best and the best of quality and proposing them, is that we will never hear of anything but praise, that nothing else in their environment and the environment of people will experience, but only a positive impression of honor, respect, dignity, self-respect, and above all, almost unlimited power over human fates that they will have in their hands for a certain day. I'm very sorry that this High Council meeting of the judiciary is about to end, so to speak, it stops working, and that one of the great injustices when it comes to Obrenovac, we are not in a position to remove. As for the Obrenovac, it concerns some other environments, even more drastic than the Obrenovac, which is the question of the network of courts and the number of judges working in those courts. I mentioned earlier for Obrenovac, and I am sure, it is very well known to me, because I come from that environment, that Obrenovac has been denied and Obrenovec has been denied for faster, more effective justice and faster coming to a fair judgment, a counterfeited number of handling cases, which is the former president so-called. a traveling circus or earlier, the Second Basic Court, which covered the territory of Surcin, Obrenovac, Mladenec, Sopot and Barajev, if I am not mistaken, got a much smaller number of judges than it deserved. To admire the engagement of these people in Obrenovac who replaced it, and part of the possibility that the High Council of the Judiciary in the previous period took advantage of that number of judges who were indeed minor and unsatisfactory to a single judge more, but today it is simply not enough. I was saying that in this conference, and I was hoping that this monster called the Crown wouldn't catch up with us, and it's time to seriously consider the network of courts. I personally think that the networks that previously existed of municipal and district courts with courts in every municipality in the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their size, were of exceptional importance to the good and proper functioning of the state. The court's presence in every community, the prosecution's presence in every environment, in addition to domestic education, warns us that we must respect the laws, that we must respect ourselves above all else, respect the environment, and that if we do not do so, we know what comes next. “When the coat of arms is born, the time does not correct.” I am of the opinion that a network of basic seniors, appeals and Supreme Cassation Court, which is only partially corrected by the separation of the former Second General Court to the basic courts in Obrenovac, Lazarovac, Mladenov, is insufficient. It is insufficient for one simple reason, as the Supreme Court in Belgrade has become a place of serious congestion in work. The Supreme Court, as first-degree and second-degree, simply is not able to meet its obligations, especially in civil-legal matter, at a satisfactory pace towards those who expect justice and we have witnessed several times that the cases were found second-degreed in complaints which the Supreme Court decided to delegate to other senior courts in Serbia and thus slightly dissipate from pending cases and that, I say, there is breath. Obviously that's not enough. It's time to assess whether we need more judges in the Supreme Court or whether we need to set up a network of courts in a different way. I think this is another far more important task. Such a network of courts and those unfortunate developments in 2010, which they called reform, and in fact mutilating the Serbian judiciary, led us to the fact that citizens, and above all, who are directly involved in this work, are in a situation that we are no longer certain of the equal application of the law to all. The lack of uniformity of court practice is something that seriously threatens the trust of an ordinary citizen, including us, in the work of the courts. A senior court in Belgrade is one of those who had a lot of such anomalies, where he had completely different arches in exactly the same situations. For example, when it comes to respecting complaints for the rejection of the decision to suspend the proceedings, because the party submitted a proposal to continue the proceedings on the 15th day following the instructions of the bankruptcy judge. In one case, they adopted these appeals, in other cases they did not, without respecting the rule that someone referred by the court did not break the law and that this must be respected. Even more tragic than that, the Court of Appeals in Belgrade allows so-called. The Supreme Cassation Court says - there is no room for action because there are no different rules. It's just amazing. He's got something serious going on here. If we have general sessions or sittings of the courts to issue statements, which is also necessary in some situations, and it comes down to this instead of these things that I'm talking about and that are very important for the functioning of the judiciary, then they have no purpose and then no wonder that we are coming into the position that we are coming to. The question arises these days whether it was necessary to get into this situation, which is that there are serious, I will not use the word of a certain, doubtful that it was attempted or prepared and a coup in the Republic of Serbia, that this was not happening since yesterday, and was it necessary for all of this to happen to our prosecution and courts to wake up? However, not all of them, some have woken up and some continue to pretend that they do not exist, waiting not to bear the burden of responsibility of what the judicial authority must bear on its shoulders. Namely, I am still responsible for Serbia's citizens, I can, and I can say that I sincerely believe that in courts they work extremely honest, honest and honorable people, and that the picture of the judiciary is corrupting a small number of them who, by their inadequacy, by ignorance, by reporting to the courts, or because of what we would say to the slangonic, the authorities in the brain, are embarrassing the entire Serbian judiciary. Honorable fellow judges, including prosecutors, it is time for you to take the matter seriously within your ranks and point out who no longer belongs in the judiciary. I haven't had much and good experience with former Council of Justice synergy, that in every situation it has responded, established and initiated a procedure to resolve some people whose place in the judiciary is not. I'm even under the impression that in some situations and the Special Prosecutor's Office, and even the High Council of the judiciary, they've been silent and made it possible for some people who don't belong in the judiciary to continue working. Many things are not good when it comes to something that has not been acceptable to us for years, which is not based on the tradition of the Serbian people, which is one of the things that has been happening to us since the 2000s, taking away the tools from the judges' hands, that is, amnesty from the obligation to establish the truth in the court proceedings. The judges in the litigation process are handcuffed to the prosecution's and the defendants' proposals and only in extremely family disputes can carry out evidence which they consider necessary and necessary, and here they simply do not have to establish the truth, but only as on the terraces measure the left and right sides, which one suggested, what the other party suggested, and on that basis make the decision. Is such a decision near justice or justice? Well, I'm afraid that in many situations this decision is only formally made properly, and that rarely when there is a closeness to justice and justice, especially since in these situations a lot depends on whether or not the party has a lawyer or a capable lawyer. It was a preparation with a litigation procedure, and then through the NGO they managed to push us through a story about amending the Criminal Procedure Act, introducing a prosecutor's investigation, bringing judges to criminal cases in the same position as those in the lawsuit. So, today, whether someone will answer depends not only on the judge, but rather on what the prosecutor can or will, not on what and how the judge acts in the case itself. Much has been done in the previous period, but much more has to be done in some future period. It is not enough just to select a few hundred judges, which we have done in the previous six or seven years, but to create additional opportunities for them to work, which is to increase the number of associates, to increase the number of judicial assistants, who need to clearly and procedurally define the place in the process and the powers to do their job as easy as possible. By who knows which time I will repeat that I do not see any reason why already, once as a mandatory, did not introduce in Serbia the recording of all court proceedings, making it easier for judges themselves to be relieved, relieved of proceedings, and we would never again have a dilemma as to what was really said in the courtroom. Anyone who's ever been to the courtroom has spent a little more time knowing that 70% of the energy and concentration of the judge and all those involved in the proceedings has been spent on the transfer to the record as close and accurate as possible to what the witnesses, the parties, the witches say. The closer it's never absolutely true, the more it opens the room for error, the more it opens space for intentional error. I'm not a supporter of running media trials, media campaigns, media hacks, but when the state comes into the situation that due to the lack of court procedures, we can practically say that stalling with court proceedings, getting into obsolescence, rejection of criminal charges, a minimum sentence plea agreement, is practically a stimulated organization and boasting of the mob that has been given the impression that it can do unpunished what it wants. For me, it's an incredible punishment for parole for violent acts in stadiums, but also for parole or minimum prison sentences in a situation like this to organize a crown party. It's something that a serious state cannot afford and cannot allow itself. We're so relaxed. I can understand the necessity of absolute media attention to what is happening right now. There is a fine line between investigative journalism, informing citizens about what is happening and endangering future court proceedings. I have the impression that it's very serious, especially from the Home Office, and then the D.A.'s office, that's what's being taken care of. Frankly, in order to be able to comment freely on some things, I didn't believe the papers today, because I know that the newspaper header sometimes has nothing to do with what it says, so I went to the Greater Court in Belgrade on their statement of March 1, 2021 and frankly, I remained appalled. I can understand the large part of what the distinguished High Court colleagues in Belgrade wrote, but what they wrote, which I will now read and stand on their site, is something that I cannot accept at all, and I will explain later. He says -- in particular, we point out today's allegations from certain media that it is a question of police officers why he does not want to subject himself to a polygraph investigation, the president of the Football Union replied that this was advised by the President of the Greater Court in Belgrade, which is absolutely untrue, since the President of the Court did not know the appointed citizen, so he could not advise him. If this were written by a political organization, a citizens' association, I would understand. I only ask the Honorable Judges – in what procedure and how have they established something that they bear witness to in their statement? This is the testimony of nine judges in the court, that the President of the High Court in Belgrade does not know the president of the Football Union. It was amazing to me when I read in the paper, I thought it was part of a journalistic expression, not a colleague who decides and acts in the High Court in Belgrade, and I have to admit that I'm shocked by this. I would understand if Mr. President of the Supreme Court had come out and said, "I don't know this gentleman, and please, I don't know him very well." The other estimates, which are written here, about the pressures of any kind, we can discuss them, but this, the people who run the judicial proceedings, who are taught, who know to determine the facts, to bring a verdict, I ask on the basis of what procedure and in what procedure, and how did they determine that someone doesn't know someone? This passage is a disgrace to the Serbian judiciary. If I were to sit among those nine, I'd resign this second. Anyone who signed this isn't a judge or should not be a judge. To his conscience and honor, because this home has no authority to initiate the procedure for their resolution. It is completely irrelevant whether the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Football Union know each other or not. What they signed and hung up on the site, if they're behind this, is a reason to submit their resignations with honor and say, we've made a mistake. If they don't, we won't trust any of their other work. All of this we can talk about, but they have to understand, everything that's said in this Assembly, everything that most media does, all that most people expect is not pressure on the outcome of the process, but pressure to start doing their job, because they're properly paid in this country, they have good wages, they have good conditions. And enough of the laziness. Serbia wants a capable, just judiciary, not the judiciary they are looking for and trying to get, completely torn away from Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3662	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3663	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are before us today a proposal for a VSS for judges who are first elected to the judicial office for the cities of Belgrade, Kragujevac and Kruševac. First of all, I must point out that the VSS in a completely transparent manner and open, in accordance with the law and sublegal acts, implemented a complete procedure, came to the attention of the competent institutions in which the judges who are now appointed worked or came to the opinion of the session of the basic and senior courts regarding their dignity to carry out this job. Also, I must point out that mostly younger judges are proposed, that their qualifications certainly correspond to the doing of judicial work, but what I must point out is that I hope that all the proposed judges that the National Assembly will appoint will work with honor, honesty, efficiency and dignity, in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Judges are and the judiciary is an independent branch of power, but judges must never forget that they are neither independent of the Constitution nor of the law and that they make their judgments in the name of the people. In this sense, I hope that the proposed judges, who are elected, will contribute to improving human capacities in courts in Belgrade, Kragujevac and Kruševec and will, of course, contribute to, first of all, that all citizens in judicial proceedings are equal and that all citizens in a quick and efficient way protect their right and come to their justice. Also, I can't help but look back at the judiciary by 2012 at a time when the country was run by a yellow tycoon, a robbery company, the yellow octopus Dragan Gilas, Jeremic, Tadic. I must say that in 2012, the state of Serbia left the robbery company powdered and grounded, destroying all the pillars of the state, and certainly among the pillars of the state is the branch of the judiciary. How did they do that? My colleagues have already stated that about 1,000 judges in re-election procedures were left out of work by the appointment of judges in the re-election process by party organisations of the yellow tycoon company, based on conditions relating to their obedience and their commitment to the yellow party, or DS. Also, I must point out that the yellow tycoon company then appointed a dead judge in Požega as a judge. They had to know the judge was dead. She had to know then, Minister Malovic, if not because of something else, because of what was achieved in the name of death and the compensation for the funeral expenses. Of course, damage and robbery is the main feature of the yellow tycoon company. The rule of law did not suit them either, the state with a regulated judicial system did not respond either, because they passed laws in accordance with their needs and the needs of the tycoon, and all with the goal of robbing citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I must also point out that this failed reform of our citizens cost 11 billion dinars, because judges who did not re-elected sue and received compensation for their salaries for the years in which they were not employed, since 2009, until 2012, when the Constitutional Court said that such a decision was anti-constitutional. The judges received a solution almost without any explanation, without even knowing the reasons why they were not re-elected. Except that they've done a real massacre in the judiciary as far as the judges are concerned, the yellow tycoon company has created a real massacre and as far as the network of courts are concerned. Of the 138 basic courts, they brought these courts down to 34. What does that mean for citizens whose access to justice is very important and who go to court to exercise their right and to satisfy justice? This means that citizens are, for no reason or without need, exposed to unnecessary travel costs for tens of miles. For example, for the citizens of Priboj, this meant that they would have to travel 60 kilometers to Prepolje, and to Užica where the Supreme Court is located they would have to cross 160 kilometers. Of course, the yellow tycoon company citizens were absolutely not interested, they were not interested in the state either, because the travel costs that they received were, of course, received by both judges and all from the judicial system that went to other cities, but the travel costs paid by other employees in the judicial authorities were often higher than their salary. Since it is given out of the budget, and since neither Dragan Djilas nor Jeremic, Tadic was absolutely interested in the Republic of Serbia's budget, they were totally deaf to it. That the reform of the judiciary was completely unsuccessful, the EU also noted that it placed the Republic of Serbia in the country with the largest corruption and with the full absence of the legal system in 2010. I must point out that because of all this IMF in 2011, he fled Serbia with his head, regardless of precisely the corruption that was networked, expanded and precisely because there was no adequate rule of law, or adequate judicial system. What I must point out is that in 2012, immediately after the takeover of power from the SNS, first done the Anti-Corruption Strategy, then the Justice Reform Strategy was made in 2013. What I must point out is that all these years until today, the Republic of Serbia has invested huge resources in judicial infrastructure. This is also important from the absecction of judges because they have received better, easier working conditions and, of course, from the point of view of citizens because judges in the new, renovated, renovated environment, and even in some even newly built buildings can schedule much more judging days. Therefore, the time of a citizen until justice is achieved is certainly shortened. I must point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has completely reconstructed the Court of Justice, which is the oldest judicial institution in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It was opened in the 1970s, now completely reconstructed. The palace of justice is also being built in Kragujevac, but I must point out that after 30 years in Raška, the first building was built, and that is the building of the Infringement Court in this municipality. Also, a brand-new building of the Infringement and Business Court in Uzic was opened. As far as prison is concerned, one of the most modern prisons has been opened in accordance with European standards in Panchev. All this was done by the responsible government and the government headed by Aleksandra Vukic, knowing that infrastructure is of immeasurable importance for the fast, efficient and motivating way, ultimately, work and judges. I must also point out that by 2020 200 000 square meters were built, when it comes to judicial systems – courts, palaces of justice, misdemeanor courts, economic courts, etc. I must point out that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and also seeking to contribute to the improvement, i.e. the fight against systemic corruption, has passed a very significant law, which is the Law on the investigation of the origin of property that represents the crown of anti-corruption laws, where one cross-examination will be able to verify the property of each of us and, of course, those whose incomes and assets are not in line will have to prove it. The law on the origin of the property will likely be very important for those who managed this country by 2012, but also for those who, during the exercise of the government, made a fortune to the extent that they acquired more than 35 residential buildings, that they formed the Association "Multikom", which is Dragan Gilas, along with their brother Gojko Gilas. The activities of the "Multicom" association were meant to help displaced and avoided persons. The help of displaced, evasive faces, of course, is not provided. None of the displaced and evasive persons entered the apartments, and they are not few, the number of the arim is 35 apartments in Belgrade and, of course, the association closed in 2016 with an explanation that they had no income in 2014. Today, Serbia is, above all, our President Aleksandar Vucic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the model of a country that can learn many more modern and richer countries in the world, the model regarding economic policy, as regards health policy, and we hope and we are making every effort to make Serbia one day a model when it comes to the judicial system. One of the goals set by our President Aleksandar Vukic and the goals the government has adopted is the determined fight against the mafia. In the previous days, we had an impressive activity of security and police forces in the repression of the mob-criminal group. The police and security forces did their job perfectly. We hope that the judicial authorities will do their job in accordance with the law and the Constitution and that justice will come out, or justice will be served. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3664	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3665	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the VSS, dear citizens of Serbia, we have before us today a proposal for a decision by the VSS to elect the holders of judicial functions for judges of the Court of Justice in Belgrade, the Second General Court in Belgrade, the General Court in Kragujevac, as well as judges of the Kravujevac and Kruševec. I must point out that I am extremely pleased that today we are discussing future holders of judicial functions that will have an even better and more up-to-date judiciary with their expertise and expertise, and will also influence with their knowledge that the trust of citizens in our judiciary remains at that high level as is the case today. Today we are talking first of all about judges who have been proposed by the VSS to this post and after the law of the established procedure has been implemented, all in accordance with the Law on the VSS and the Law on Judges. It is in this transparent procedure that the proposed candidates have the expertise, dignity, and that they are trained to perform one of the most demanding functions in the field of justice and justice, which is to be a judge. The judge is, above all, the person who has the most moral and professional qualities to decide in a particular criminal, litigation or other procedure on someone's right or freedom. The judge also decides with his own knowledge whether by a certain act or an act broken by the law prescribed by the norm, and if he sees it in a somewhat broader aspect of the judge, above all, those who protect the public order of Serbia and its laws. By reading the proposed VSS decision, we can clearly see that it is the proposed candidates who have graduated from law school, passed a judicial exam and acquired the necessary knowledge and skills in the judicial bodies of various instances. It is also clear from the proposed decision that it is the 31 proposed candidates, of which a certain number has started and successfully completed training at the Judicial Academy, but there are also a number of persons who have worked for many years at the place of judicial assistants, and this is a clear indication that a serious and responsible work can be recognized, and the natural landing of events is that these persons are elected as holders of judicial functions. I would like to remind the citizens that the Constitution provides for a horizontal division of powers and it includes legislative, executive and judicial authority and while the legislative authority is empowered to pass legal and sublegal acts, the executive authority is empowered to enforce those laws. We are also reaching the third branch of government, or judicial authority, which has an extremely important social significance. Its primary goal above all is to protect all rights and freedoms of citizens from violations of power, but what is more important is that the judiciary and the holders of judicial functions remain independent, because one of the basic postulates of a democratically regulated society is precisely an independent judiciary. But it's also very dangerous if someone wants the judiciary to break out of the domain of independence and lead under political influence as was the case in 2009. All of us here must, above all, be open and honest that in 2009, in the beginning of 2010, one of the most embarrassing and most discreet reforms of the judiciary in Serbia's modern history was implemented. In one day, 850 judicial officials were out of work. In that one day when the Justice Ministry's decision on the election was announced, the general election of judges for basic, more and appeals courts, there were inconceivable consequences both for our judiciary and for the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in the European institutions that monitor progress in the area of justice. Simply put, it was a shame for Serbia at that point. In 2009, the Ministry of Justice, which, of course, corresponds to the state summit of the time, made by the people of the DS, which is precisely all those who are on the political scene today, are those parties that are of course below the censors, have called a general, or competition for the general selection of judges for future basics, more and appeals courts. They called a choice that was neither necessary at that time, nor in accordance with the Constitution. In one day, 850 judges by the head of the Justice Ministry and those of the people who sat in the first class of the VSS are characterised as unworthy. Unworthy were those who devoted their entire careers to fighting crime, so the reward for such a difficult and responsible job and decision-making was the street. Simply put, dear citizens, the 850 judges in one day remained on the street, and what is more embarrassing is that individuals were not even allowed into their cabinets, packing the necessary things, but were waiting for them at the entrance to the courts. This was done by those who had a majority in this home in 2009. This was carried out by those who had a majority in the executive power, but at the moment of total passion, they wanted the judiciary to subdue to political interests, but to make it easier for everyone here to understand it, they wanted the entire people and the entire judiciary to subdue to one political ideology of the then DS. The implementation of reforms in their political dictionary was not a synonym for promotion, for improvement, but was solely a synonym for destroying the already existing one. Remember all those reforms in the area of economy after which 500,000 of our fellow citizens remained on the street. Remember all those reforms in the area of health after which Serbia took its last place in the area of medical assistance. All these events remain one negative feeling that 850 judges had at that time. At that moment there was a flagrant beating of this responsible profession and no one at that time cared about the careers of these judges, no one cared about the state of these judges and no one cared about the family existence of those judges. I'll remind you that in some cases we had when both spouses were holders of judicial functions. Imagine that morbidity, then the unofficial position of the Justice Ministry and those people who sat in the first VSS Council, was that if both spouses were holders of judicial functions, they couldn't pass the re-election. That was an off-the-book attitude. Then, people, fearing normal for their family existence, go to those same courts where judges, divorce their marriages, change their last names so they can support their families. Imagine this level of morbidity that you reform the marital status of certain people and that you force them to divorce themselves on the basis of those rules written and unwritten by you at that time. Remember that at that moment, Minister Snezana Malovic is sitting in the VSS, the chairman of the Supreme Council, and other members of the High Council are sitting. Can these same people 10 years later and say sorry to those families? I'll remind you that during the general election, a number of people were elected to the functions of the judges who died at that time. Remember the letter of the then Serbian Judges' Association, which provided the list of "Politics", which clearly shows that the lists of judges in the Municipality of Vlasotince are made on the basis of the recommendation of the local DS board. The same document makes it clear that the election had the advantage of those persons who rated DS officials as party sympathisers and ultimately, even more tragically, the same document was certified by the seal of the Municipality of Vlasotince. This is another piece of evidence that the elite at the time was not interested in the people, Serbia's progress, but exclusively political interest. Now that we've made all this clear, we've been asking 10 years after that one question to us and to the entire people – what have we received at that time with this reform? Absolutely nothing. From one systemically arranged network of courts at that time, we got a completely confusing network of courts. I'll take the capital for example, Belgrade. At that moment, there are five municipal courts in Belgrade's territory. After reforming the network of courts, only one basic court is established. Every judge in that basic court owes over 1,000 cases. You know what the score is? The result is that the hearings are scheduled for two or three times a year and that people from Belgrade are waiting for sentences for 10 years. All these negative things we're trying to make right 10 years later. The 2010 reform costs us 44m euros. At that point, they did not want to use 44m euros to improve judicial infrastructure. They didn't want to use it to increase the salary to judges, prosecutors, notaries, technical staff, but we had to pay 44m euros from the 2012 and 2013 budget to correct the mistakes of those who couldn't, or were able to implement the reform, but were already on their résumés. As they talk about various affairs, while they are talking about failed reforms in the economy, health care, the judiciary behind the SNS there are clear results. In the period from 2013 to 2016, the justice of the Republic of Serbia resolved three million cases, including executive matter cases, salary increases in all areas were followed by salary increases in the judiciary, and in 2014 a prosecutor's investigation aimed at improving the investigation process and preventing the state from giving more than 10m euros annually from the budget on behalf of those investigations conducted without valid evidence or too quickly, so they had to pay high cash amounts on behalf of unfounded detention. Also, I have to tell you that year after year we increased investment in judicial infrastructure and in 2019 that amount was 1.9 billion. The buildings of the First Basic Court and the building of the Higher Court in Katanic were completely reconstructed, and the Ministry of Justice planned eight more capital projects in the coming year or in the coming years, of which the building was built for judicial authorities in Kragujevac and complete reconstruction and adaptation of the Third Basic Court building in Belgrade. What I mean is, we can discuss the laws, the decisions of the executive government in the House of the National Assembly can be debated, but when it comes to the judiciary, we are not here and we are not going to go down because it is important for us that the third branch of government remain independent and remain constant on its own path and objectives. In the voting day, I will support the proposed VSS decision, so that in years ahead, we can say that in each decision, as the ruling majority, we have worked exclusively to strengthen the capacity of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3666	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3667	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the VSS, fellow MPs, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I fully support these proposals for new judges, for people first elected for judicial office. I analyzed and read the biographies. The bios are good, and I hope that this 31 judges I'll support in the voting day when they're elected as functions to serve on behalf of the people. Because what we ask of the SNS is that judges judge in the name of the people, as did our MPs here, were chosen by the people, on the list Alexander Vukic – for our children, as well as the judges elected and elected to serve on behalf of the people, not to have a situation like it was until 2012. The reminders are done, and you know it from the VSS, 2012 we had a broken judiciary by the yellow tycoon company and the regime of Dragan Gilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and their closest associates. In 2012, the rescue of the Serbian judiciary began, and my colleagues from the parliamentary club spoke excellently about what was done as regards the rescue of the Serbian judiciary, so that SNS and coalition partners do not interfere in court decisions. We just interfered to make infrastructure, not to list how many new judicial and prosecutorial buildings have been renovated or done throughout Serbia. It starts with a building in Katanic, a former Military and Technical Institute, on the Municipality of Vrachar from which I come. However, despite all this, individual judges, some of your colleagues do not work on behalf of the people, do not serve the people, but serve their mentors from the tycoon yellow company and serve their associates in criminal mob circles. Unfortunately, we still have judges in Serbia today, and I responsibly say that together with certain prosecutors, lawyers, tycoons and criminals from various criminal gangs, groups and clans, as they have already called themselves, they are doing only to achieve their property benefits and to do as many crimes as possible and to do everything in this way to bring down whoever opposed them, and the people and justice led them to Alexander Vukic, our president. However, I hope that these judges whose biographies we have read here, as well as those selected in previous years, will not go to the Western embassies to smoke tompuss, drink cocktails and make arrangements and ask for help from certain Western ambassadors, that they will not go to private hotels of certain tycoons and are located in the basements of certain restaurants where they will make deals with individual lawyers, criminals, mobsters and prosecutors how and how to judge them, but fortunately, to be honest, such a number of judges are minimal. Most of you judges are honest and honest people who are loyal to the state of Serbia, who serve the state of Serbia, who serve this flag behind you, the flag of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we SNS want from both new and old judges. Serve the people. Do not serve the western, eastern embassies, criminals, tycoons, or any political party, as was the case until 2012. I also ask the new judges and current judges and those judges who will be elected in the future, let's judge quickly and efficiently as the people ask. Our people in Serbia are hungry for justice, our people love the truth. Aleksandar Vukic and our party have a large rating because of the results that have been made, but also because Aleksandar Vukic always tells the people the truth in the eyes and what the people recognized in him as one of the greatest justice fighter in Serbia's recent history. In the case of our president, when threats to him, to his family, to his closest associates, the competent institutions do not respond adequately, but because when someone mentions Dragan Gilas, we have the effects against those who have said about Gilas what is true, that he has earned, i.e. Kidnapped millions of euros in Serbian citizens. When my colleague Marijan Risticevic attacks fascistally at the entrance to the Serbian Parliament, when he gets kicked and hit on the head, when his jacket is ripped off, when he only holds in his hands the keys to the car, when they go brutally to step on it, if it wasn't for this wonderful police security and my colleagues, they might have killed him. We don't have a case here. It's like, I'm going to be corrected by my colleagues, harassing public order and peace. Well, only when my colleagues were striked by Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic and Sandra Christmas was a reaction, but still an inadequate editorial. When someone threatens our president and our MPs and my colleague Nebojsa Bakarec, there is no adequate reaction from the judicial authorities. But when Bakarec criticizes a secret meeting in Trieste Dragan Gilas, former BIA director Saša Vukadinovic and their entire group, and they make there who know what theories of conspiracy and against you from the High Council of the judiciary and against the president and those who lead the institutions with honor and justice in Serbia, then it is characterized as a threat to death. And so day by day, day by day, they are helped by individual media and analysts. You judges should do your job professionally. We don't need a judge who begs or asks for an opinion on foreign embassies, and we don't need judges like Majic who, what he is, a political analyst, a writer, a political worker, as my colleague Atlagic says. He's supposed to be a judge. Social political worker, judge of the Court of Appeal. That's not normal. There is no such thing in any country in Europe. Not to mention the individual presidents of Serbia's courts who left the post and moved on to be members of the opposition party's presidency, specifically the Vuk Jeremic party. What are those judges doing? That's what the people see. Not to mention the verdicts. Why isn't the case against Dragan Solak initiated? Who's gonna pay his 36m-euro price? It has already been paid by the citizens of Serbia. Not him, not Gilas, not his associates, not anyone from the SBB. How did the Czech come about? Because the SBB was without agreement taking electricity from Serbia's common and private electricians. It's a waste of 36 million euros. Who paid? Citizens. Is he processed? It's not. What's he doing? He's laughing. From Trieste, Luxembourg, Belgrade goes around the world by Gilas, Vukadinovic, a real conspiracy theory, here fascists invade the Assembly. They wanted to burn it this summer. They're beating up our MPs. He doesn't have any responsibility. They can do it. Why? Because individuals in judicial institutions don't do their job. But I, as well as my colleagues, believe in you from the High Council of the Judiciary and in most honest and honest judges and prosecutors. I know you'll beat the minority. I know you serve the Constitution and the law. I know that you serve the Republic of Serbia and that you will judge on behalf of the people. There you will always have the support of SNS and President Vukic, but I also ask you now in these difficult moments, when a great fight has been launched against the mafia and all their tails and political parties, both in opposition and in position and in various structures, to provide support, to serve in the name of the people, because President Alexander Vukic himself cannot. State institutions have to do their job, too. You must support the fight against the mafia for the sake of our children and all future generations in the Republic of Serbia. If we fail now to defeat the mafia and root out crime and corruption from state institutions, the question is when will we be able to do so? Because if they return to our power, Gilas and his associates, then the mob will control the state. Now we still have a situation so we can beat both the mafia and all the mob tentacles in both the state institutions and the former regime, but that's why we need support, who, the judicial institutions. So, of course, in the voting day, as well as my fellow MPs from the "Alexandar Vukic – To our children" Group, I will support the choice of these judges, vote, give full support to serve on behalf of the people, and I expect them to serve on behalf of the people, as our president and our party serve on behalf of the people, because this is just another step towards Serbia led by Alexander Vukic to make all of us and our children an even better future, the future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3668	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3669	Dear chairman, distinguished guests, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today is ahead of us with a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, which has submitted the High Council of the judiciary. The attached proposal clearly shows that all candidates meet both moral and professional criteria for performing such an important function, and that the candidates have successfully passed exams for judges elected for the first time. Given the candidate's biography, I became convinced that it was very relatively young people, successful professionals who had completed an adequate formal education, passed judicial exams and all other intended activities needed to perform such an important function. Many of them participated in a series of seminars, a series of projects, a series of trainings, which suggests that it is about people who are ready to perfect themselves, to expand their views and improve their knowledge and experience in their profession. The rule of law and rule of law are the civilizational achievements that Serbia today cultivates and advances every day, strictly divided by principle into judicial, legislative and executive powers, which in 1784 was defined by Charles Monteskje in the book "The Spirit of Law". Times have passed, gentlemen, when in Serbia politics had a primate over law, and judges were elected on the basis of party books, based on friendly, cousinly or godfatherly ties. Judges today can freely and professionally perform their duty, not caring for the pressures, blackmails and threats of political and criminal circles, which, unfortunately, were exposed from 2000 to 2012. The latest example of the verdict makes it clear to former President of the Municipality of Grock and SNS that no one today is privileged or spared from the hand of justice in Serbia. Our country faces, unfortunately, new challenges that are political and geopolitical, and break over the reputation and dignity of our judicial system. The report by Vladimir Bilčik, who adopted the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, which seeks to resolve the alleged affairs of Jovanica, Krusik or I don't know which one, is not the fruit of an objective analysis of the work of the Serbian judiciary and the prosecution, but is a purely politically motivated move aimed at blackmail and pressure on President Vukic to give in the fight for vital national interests. We'll take this affair as an example. As much as we're trying to healthyly countercipe what Serbia really resents as far as this affair is concerned, I can't find a reason. Let me start from the beginning. The fourth Belgrade police department, headed by the chief, a decorated police officer, has discovered a substance production laboratory that is suspected of being a drug addict, bringing justice to the organisers of the job and all related persons, regardless of what hierarchical role they played in our society, and that is the end, end. Our country's judicial system is doing its job in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. The only problem with this case was that one of opposition's loudest agitators, Miroslav Aleksic, the same one who now calls for the collapse of the constitutional order, the riots, the protests, the problems, if the elections are held not in democratic but on their terms, on nothing based, accused the President of the Republic's brother in some way involved in this affair. Obscrupulous political opportunities in Serbia know that he did so in order to slander someone through whose names he could at least until the end of the court procedure permanently to be in public, in the media still bearing lies and half-truths, with a fundamental goal of dissuasing the trust of our citizens in the president and his politics, knowing that the court sentence for this act will be 200, 300 thousand dinars as long as it is for him and his political finances a miserable financial figure. The case was transplanted in favour of the brother of the President of the Republic without any doubt within a record period, and what if everything from the beginning of the case was based on a cheap political lie. There's another question here - what about moral responsibility? What about the kids, the family, the friends of the brother of the president of the Republic who read and read in the paper for months that their father was a drug dealer? Does anyone owe these children at least an apology from that conglomerate they call the opposition? It is certainly known that they do not have an elementary education, so they will offer neither an answer nor an apology nor anything else, but what is essential is that we do not need their answer. We need an answer from our people that will be given in the next and all other elections, and it is quite clear, given that the people clearly see their inventions and what there are now evidence judgments. In the past few years, gentlemen, with our European partners and friends, we have had really good and open co-operation, and we have rarely received praise for their determination and sacrifice in a series of reform steps that we have taken in the process of Eurointegration. Serbia, honored gentlemen, will resolve all alleged disputed affairs, and all responsible persons, as always, will bring justice and not because you honor them or anyone else, and in order for you to do this to me. We have an orderly democratic authority that does everything in the interest of its own state and the well-being of its people and no one else. Apparently, some centres of power in the country and abroad are disturbed by a stable Serbia, a Serbia that records the unremembered growth of the economy and development, Serbia that is among the most successful countries in the fight against this monster called the coronary virus. Serbia, which is a leader in the region and Serbia respected both by Paris and Beijing and Moscow and many other countries, which do not respect us for no reason, but because Serbia today has its own word to which it holds and does not change in line with the daily political interests. Our country has also been responsible for the problem of Kosovo and Metohija over the past few years, wisely and compromiseally seeking to reach a comprehensive agreement with Pristina. After a change in the US administration, it is clear that Serbia expects joint pressure from both Washington and official Brussels to recognise independence, so-called. Kosovo, but also agree to attempt to lift the authority of Republika Srpska. Our country led by President Vukic has shown that she is ready to leave behind a painful past and to extend her trust to everyone in the region. But, and that until the last atom of strength, all political means will provide for the protection of the interests of our citizens and our countrymen, wherever they live. As far as the Brussels Agreement is concerned, Serbia has respected. She's willing to honor everything she's asked for and in the Washington Agreement, and that's her strength, the strength of her policy, her responsibility, not the weakness that many want to honor. We have shown over the past few years that despite the disastrous legacy of negotiations with Kosovo, which remained by Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic we have the capacity to prevent membership so-called. Kosovo state to international institutions but to actively reduce the number of countries that recognise this quasi state in the territory of the southern Serbian province. The hope remains that the wise and responsible policy of our country will still be recognised by the US administration of Joseph Bideen and by official Brussels, and that pressures and blackmails will be replaced by dialogue, construction and compromise. It is therefore important that you do not succumb to foreign pressures that are politically motivated, that you do not boast of cooperation with foreign embassies as some of your colleagues who advise, we now see that you are going or not going on a polygraph, and that you continue to act by the letter of the Constitution and the law and preserve dignity, the integrity of the legal order of Serbia. I would end up with a quote from the epic folk song Uroš and Mrnjavčevići where he says: judge neither by the grandmother nor by the uncles, but by the justice of the God of truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3670	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3671	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is today ahead of us to elect new judges, i.e. the holder of the judiciary. I will remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for the existence of three authorities. These are, of course, legislative, executive and judicial. The ratio of these three branches of government is based on balance and mutual control. Each of these three branches of government should be independent of each other. However, we need to talk about an important topic, and it refers to the emergence of mistrust in the judiciary. Citizens ask themselves, and they rightly ask, and how fellow MP Aleksandra Mirkovic said so, whether he will find justice before the court and when he will find justice. Confidence in the judiciary came after the 2009 reform when 850 judges were out of work. Confidence feels a day today. So today, we have before us a proposal for a decision on the choice that is first elected to the judge's office. Officials in the judiciary must be competent to carry out such responsible tasks and, as fellow MP Dejan Kesar said, must possess a high level of knowledge and skills as well as moral qualities that qualify them. Individuals, and these are those who always have something against, also have against this election of judges, and I ask the question, how can the election of judges oppose those who gave recommendations and judges chose at meetings of municipal committees, local committees, individual political parties. At the same time, judgments were made in tabloids, and today they are brought in courts. Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, you said this morning that all procedures were respected, that the complete procedure was respected and consistent with the biographies we received, I am convinced that the candidates met all the conditions and that the functions would be performed in accordance with the law and in the name of the people. However, an important topic that I believe is that we should discuss both individual colleagues and fellow MPs have talked about, concerns the judicial infrastructure. It is important for the People of the Republic of Serbia to note that much has been done in the previous period to improve the housing and technical conditions of the work of the judicial authorities. That's where I'd really like to commend the Department of Justice. I'm going to say, and here I have a list that's on four pages, but I'm going to list only some of them, which is: a judicial body building in Katanic, senior courts, basic courts, primary public prosecutor's office, e.g. A misdemeanor court in Novi Sad, the Supreme Court in Belgrade, or the Plata of Justice in Belgrade, and many others. As I mentioned much has been done in the previous period, conditions for the existence and promotion and fairer and fairer Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have also been met, reminding two key things. It is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a revised action plan for Chapter 23 in the EU accession process and another matter, the Justice Development Strategy for the period from 2020 to 2025 was adopted. The development of justice is defined by the Strategy as one of the key strategic priorities of the Republic of Serbia in order to ensure the rule of law and increase legal certainty. When it comes to the Justice Development Strategy for the period from 2020 to 2025, there are five priorities: further strengthening the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the prosecution, further strengthening the integrity of the holders of judicial functions, further raising the capacity and quality of the judicial system by strengthening the expertise and training of the holders of functions and other employees in the judiciary, further raising the level of efficiency of the judicial system, raising the level of public confidence in the work of the judiciary through the availability and transparency of the work of the institutions. However, there are certain developments, and I believe that I am not the only member and representative of the Serbian Progressive Party to receive calls from upset citizens, and not now lately, but rather some things that happen continuously. Somehow we seem to be used to it there are certain threats in this system, that individuals are drawn targets, and I'm asking the question – how can we get used to threats? How can we get used to the threats of President Alexander Vukic and certain people who are being targeted just for being related to President Alexander Vukic? This way, I urge the prosecution and the judiciary to do their job by conscience and by law, and the new judges to be brave and persistent, to work in harmony with the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the people, to make each citizen equal to them. I will remind them only of the application of the principle of the division of power which implies the existence of an independent, impartial, responsible, professional and effective judiciary. In the voting day, I will support this proposal and also invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3672	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bratimir Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3673	Dear President with associates, members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us the choice of judges who take up these very important functions in the country for the first time. I would like to join all my colleagues who spoke in that direction today, but I would also like to present a few critical things about how the trial takes place in the country of Serbia in the present time, so I would also convey the mood of citizens. I hope that these are individual cases and that the vast majority of people who deal with this complex and responsible function in the country are doing their job quality and professionally. Unfortunately, there are individuals who abuse and use this function for personal purposes, i.e. More and more citizens are making remarks that the verdicts can be ordered with individual judges, which is a very dangerous and very bad message we are sending. For this reason, I would like to support the young judges who are taking over, who, we certainly hope, will support the proposal of members of the High Council of the judiciary so that these people take responsibility and perform and very responsible functions in society, to order them to handle their work, what the previous MP said, not by their grandmother and uncles, but by the justice of the God of truth, and only by doing so, to exercise great support and to justify their responsibility and their function in this country. We often hear here that three branches of government that exist in the state of Serbia, and also in all countries of the world, including the judge's branch, which is also independent in work and in function, and there is no need to remind whether anyone should interfere in making decisions and in the work of the judges themselves, that is to say, independence in doing that function. It is not clear to me that the National Assembly as one of the largest bodies, the legislative body of the authorities that has the control function, is opposed to those who have done very differently, which the judges have chosen in one completely different way and in a completely different way. We know that certain municipal committees have given priority lists for the selection of judges, and here to challenge the right of the National Assembly that it can decide and that it can control the work, because it only leaves judges to decide for themselves about everything and their work I don't think that's good. After all, I don't know how many countries in Europe have such a system where the National Assembly has no right to insight and no right to control work. After all, this Assembly also chooses the executive power, so why should the judicial authority differ from the executive authority, if the National Assembly chooses the executive power, and chooses it, and has the possibility of self-control of the work of the executive authority I do not understand how so many enigma and so much concern that the Assembly would interfere in the work of the courts. I expect that the new young judges will justify the trust the Council has given them and justify, in every sense, this very important and responsible function. I would stay here, I can't skip, not to mention vaccination in the country of Serbia, as things stand, although we often have criticisms on the side of those who don't want and don't like what Serbia is progressing and that Serbia notes better and better results every day. I must remind myself that Serbia is now fifth in the world, and second in Europe, and today it is the first in Europe to be re-reactioned. It is only thanks to the wise policy of our country headed by the President of the State, Mr. Alexander Vukic and our Government. I would also remind myself that, despite all the efforts that seem to our population and our citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state also makes the neighbouring nations our neighbouring and closest to us in the environment, such as Macedonia, such as Montenegro and like Bosnia and Herzegovina yesterday. And for that, funds are found and forces are found, and only great people like Alexander Vukic can help neighboring peoples, because simply from this great European democracy remain empty, the people of that country have not received any of those promises. I would also remind you of the epic thing, at least for me, the way I look at things when it comes to printing textbooks, how many governments and how many statesmen have passed in this country, so no one has ever thought we should, at least what's most important, which is the Serbian language, literature, geography, history, to write to the people to whom it belongs. No one's thought of it before, and no one's had the courage to get into that story. I hope they live very quickly that these most important objects of our country's press. Hence, it is no wonder that there is no relevance to the loss of our population and of the Serb people in Jasenovac, I am surprised even so little, and it has been over 75 years that this is so little in our textbooks, and that our young generations have the opportunity to know how many Serbs are and how they have been injured, that is, by our former brotherly peoples. When it comes to the monument of Germany, for 800 years it was meant for some statesman to come to terms with and some statesman muster the courage to make such a point to the man who created it, who made the state of Serbia and from whom the roots came. Therefore, I am taking the opportunity to thank the public president of the state and to congratulate on such courage. What about the movie "Dara From Jasenovac", which was supposed to go on for 75 years? Didn't anyone have the courage and courage? Obviously not. To record this kind of loss and that the generations behind us, and certainly we who were in our late years didn't have a very good idea, and we didn't have a whole lot of perspectives about how things were going. We hope that this will continue and that this will continue in the future and everything that has happened to the Serb family, starting with Kosovo, via Kosovo and Metohija, via BiH. There are many things that need to be clarified and that citizens have full knowledge of it. When it comes to fighting crime and corruption, it is my call to the president of the state to, above all, go into battle in our ranks. I am responsible to say, I am also many years old and I have been in the political organization of the SNS for a long time, that is, from the establishment and I ask for it to start in our ranks first, because a lot of the meshetars and many people who have infiltrated this party have been so raped and so arrogantly behaved that they simply have to deal with the matter urgently, first of all, personally. Many have entered this party of personal interest and look only at personal interest above all else. Look, some even dared to even think, God forbid, and the murder of the president of the state, to come to political power. Tom needs to get in the way. Simply, the whole state and the whole society expects, first of all in our ranks, to go into battle with it, to know exactly who's fighting for what he's fighting for and that his personal interest is suppressed in the name of general interest and the fight for the better tomorrow. I'd like to remind you here of a bankruptcy that lasts in Nis for almost 20 years. It is a agricultural industrial combination of PIK Nis and it is a strange thing that so far, over 320 million dinars have been removed from the Nis budget of the city of Nis, because, by law, these things have been seen to simply cover the bankruptcy costs and what follows in bankruptcy. However, it takes an unnecessary length of time for this bankruptcy action and, most importantly, the facilities that exist in the bankruptcy are collapsing, being distributed in every possible way, and I would simply remind that in the municipality of Panteleus, where I was so far president of the city municipality, there are eight objects, i.e. The cooperative homes or homes of culture, however you like, is Gornji Matejevac, Gornja Vrežina, Knez Selo, Kamenica, Brenica, Cerje, Jasenovic and Pasjač, and all in turn fail only because so long the bankruptcy process takes place and no one takes over any protection from these objects that can and can be of benefit tomorrow. If we are to advocate that the village population stays where they were born and where they live, so we must do something to them in that direction, and cooperative or cultural homes to train them to have somewhere to gather, starting with both pensioners and citizens, not to mention young people. That's why my call to the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Undeveloped Areas, since the Panteleus municipality belongs to undeveloped municipalities, to take part in this and to see how this issue can be resolved, to save these objects from total destruction and from total devastation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3674	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Unfortunately, you only have seven minutes left. I guess that's enough, huh?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3675	I'll try, though it's very serious. Every time it comes to the holders of judicial functions, it has some weight. First, I can express one satisfaction because, at the end of this debate over the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, none of the candidates have been challenged and will not be particularly declared in the day of the vote, which is certainly the result of a different approach to resolving the election of judges, but rather what was in the past. Probably a large number of my colleagues were talking about the various problems we had in choosing the highest legal holders, and don't be surprised by that, because in 2013, the Constitutional Court announced the unconstitutional election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. This speaks of what the reform that was implemented in 2008 and 2009 really was. These are the problems that fellow MPs will talk about for a long time because of this approach and the resolution of these problems of the election of judges and today among Serbian citizens there is great mistrust in our judicial system and in the holders of judicial functions. Unfortunately, that is so, and MPs as MPs convey what citizens say and speak, those impressions they have with their electoral body and with the environment they live in. Another thing that is also related to the work of your body is that one fortunately few judges are corrupting the reputation and all that the holders of judicial functions and you are doing to improve the view of how our courts function. And that's what my colleagues used to say. They also talked about the famous Majic judge, who also annulled the rulings of the "Drenic Group", freed them from guilt. He freed the guilty and the man for the promise of a minor child. Simplely, the question is, how long will the High Judicial Council put up with such a thing? How long will a small number of judicial officials violate the reputation of the entire justice system? That's the problem we have to deal with in the very near future. I don't want to talk about other situations and get into some deeper analysis of some things. It is constantly said that there is not enough rule of law in Serbia and that there is constant pressure on the holders of judicial functions by the legislative and executive authorities. I ask the question is this really true and what does it look like to us as Members of the People? Here, I will read only one part given in an interview by the President of the Great Court in Belgrade, which says, "I think wise politicians and officials should work to strengthen the independence and independence of courts," I fully agree, "simplyly, this same judiciary will decide on their civil rights and freedoms at a time when they are no longer in public office". Is that what I'm supposed to see as a MP as a threat? So at this point, our judicial system does not protect the MPs, but it will come under attack when it comes to their rights and freedoms, when they are no longer Members of the people. That's the problem I'm talking about. It is not a violation of the independence of the courts and of the holders of the judicial functions that when a member of the assembly comments on a judicial verdict, the procedure is over, but representatives of the former regime have attacked us by the MPs and when they do so. You know what, it's impossible and there's no system and there's no state-of-the-art arrangement in anyone, which has the power of public documents or judgment, it's not subject to public criticism. I guess it's the MPs who have the utmost right to criticise it if they feel that a verdict has not been passed in accordance with the law. But it goes to the point where it's supposed to be an excuse to violate judicial independence. We can discuss this a few more examples, but here, and when we get a report from the European Commission and when we get reports from various NGOs, domestic, international, etc., these human rights are always mentioned, the independence of the judiciary and the regulation of the rule of law is always mentioned. You know what, the economy is exact. There are no subjective and objective estimates. This works exclusively on, say, mathematical values, data issued by certain state and other bodies, by various methodologies and very precise. And if you want a country to attack or blame it for something, then you're going to talk about human rights and lack of rule of law, because it can always be a subjective assessment or a political moment. What disproves all those who talk about it? They talk about how much Serbia as a state has investments that do not come from Serbia. It's always very accurate and accurate, because anyone who owns capital won't invest that money in a country that has no human rights and civil liberties in the first place, especially if it's from the Western world and will never invest unless it's the rule of law in that country. And those are the estimates that are credible. I hope that soon, in some near future, we will discuss judges who violate the dignity of the judiciary, about the presidents of the courts who violate the reputation of their court first of all, because no president of the higher court is worth anything less than any other, but only one by the embassies, you have to agree, does the president of the higher court go to Pozarevec, but from Belgrade, to ask the question of what is happening and how does the reputation of the justice officials first and foremost violate? I hope at one of the next sessions we'll be quick to discuss and ask these judges what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3676	Well done, you were right in a second. Since there are no more elected MPs on the lists, does anyone else want a word from the representatives or president of the parliamentary groups? The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go. You've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the High Council of the Judiciary, we can also recapture today. I have already highlighted in this morning's announcement the importance of the function on which we will choose the candidates we discussed today in the voting day. My message will always be the same or similar, that is, for candidates who will be judges or public prosecutors or the President of the Court, that they always judge by law, honestly and honestly, to take their function as a job and to carry it out responsibly and efficiently. Judges must give citizens the opportunity to exercise the right to justice and equality in front of our country's imperial regulations. Do not, gentlemen, allow yourself to be remembered as a former regime by order of judgment, by abuse of office, by political blackmail and by some political blackmail, and therefore by the decision-making. You must ensure the trust of the citizens in the judicial system you represent. These are all the messages for the candidates we talked about today. As for the fight against crime, I believe the state will continue to do so. I believe that Alexander Vukic will give state authorities full support to deal with the mafia and criminal structures. We are left to await the statement that President Aleksandar Vukic announced, which will introduce citizens, with information concerning criminal structures, but to meet the citizens and some issues concerning his personal security, perhaps a foreign impact on some events in Serbia, and finally, we will see what the investigation will show, who has been working with the mafia, whether and in what way the assassination of President Vukic is, what is the impact of the former regime, etc. I expect the state to endure in this fight, but also in many other struggles that we are fighting in parallel, for a better economy, for a developed economy, for a better standard of living for our citizens, above all for the preservation of peace and stability, in which, of course, President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of Serbia have the unreserved support of the MPs of the "Alexandar Vukic – For our children". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-03-0.u3678	Thank you. Does any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups appear, or anyone else who has not used the right, or the rapporteurs or representatives? No, I don't. ) Since no one is answering anymore, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the proposal for this decision. That's what we do today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. In line with the Rules of Procedure, the first thing to do is to ask questions, i.e. the demand for information, and then there will be a vote. Thank you. Thank our guests, or representatives of the promoters. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 154 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah, but let me see what order. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
