ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6560	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 12th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 146 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6561	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, my question will be addressed to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and it says - what will the ministry do about the increasing occurrence of so-called "red rivers" in the town of Novi Pazar and in the municipality of Prijepolje, as well as in other cities in the Republic of Serbia, and when was the last time the inspection was carried out in the area of Sandzak? So, Novi Pazar, Pryce, Nova Varosh, Pryboy, Sense and Tutin. As for the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that is, in my humble assessment, the best Ministry in the Government of the Republic of Serbia according to the results they have achieved so far. The results are absolutely undeniable. However, what we have said through discussions will be much easier for us to solve non-sanitary dumps, much easier to build the transfer of the station, much easier to do all these financial and technical things than to change the awareness of citizens and citizens, and that is something that we have to work on, and that is something that the Ministry of the Long-term, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, has to work long-term with the Ministry of Education through education, primarily our children. Last week, the public in Prijepolje was alarmed by the appearance of the so-called "red river". Here's what it looks like in practice. This is really scary, and this is how it almost happened in New Market. I have full confidence in the environmental protection department's competent authority that they will react. As far as I'm concerned, no one's taken responsibility, no one's identified the perpetrator, and that's something that's terrible. In this river me and many generations have bathed and all the children, the little ones in Prepolje and my son and other children, if God will, this summer will bathe. So it's unacceptable to be in the middle of the day, it's unacceptable to ever have a phenomenon like this again, not in Prijepolje, but in any city in the Republic of Serbia. It's not Detroit so we can't determine who caused this disaster. The source of the river Mileševka is a special nature reserve, canyon, and the wider area is protected by cultural monuments due to the Milesev monastery. So I shouldn't say what the Milleseva monastery represents for the Serbian people, there's the white angel's fresco and all the citizens and citizens and in Prijepolje, Sandzak's proud that this cultural and historical monument is there. There's a mosque nearby in Hisardzhik, where the Koran has been guarded for several centuries. What I want to point out and why I'm saying this is what although space is protected by monuments of culture, wild construction of lush and not only have cottages, we have cafes, restaurants and some ponds, even zoos. I really don't have a problem with anyone for their boss, on their expense, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia playing both Tarzan and Vinetu, but you can't destroy our sanctity, and if someone gave permission, we'll determine who gave the license and establish his criminal responsibility, because by law he couldn't do that, the Cultural Goods Act, Article 32 of Article 2 clearly speaks of it. Also, I want to take this opportunity to show what it's like to have a pellets go off in the morning with his work. Here, take a look. I was asked by the citizens of Novi Pazar, from Prepolje, from Nova Varosha to point out this problem and expect an effective reaction from the ministry and a quick response to see if the pellets are using filters and all that the Environmental Protection Act provides. Citizens are rebelling, really people living nearby, their facilities are suffering, their health is suffering, their children are suffering, and I think we should break up with this practice just because some tycoon has a connection with some lower officials in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6562	Thank you. The word is Mirsad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6563	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the only opposition parliamentary group in this Assembly of Parliament, we are testifying to the constant disrespect of our right to freedom of speech, our rights to receive answers to parliamentary questions within the prescribed deadline. Even when we get answers from the competent state institutions which, I will remind, are obliged to deliver adequate and complete answers to all our parliamentary questions, these answers are about denying jurisdiction, so it turns out that Minister of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Management Nedimovic is not responsible for the forests, that in the power of energy, Mrs Mihajlovic, is not paying off the mining of coal in the Stavalj mine. There has yet to be a shift in solving problems that former workers of the Vesna combinations have with 18 unpaid earnings, etc., so that we do not continue because the time is small and the list is quite long. The latest case of abuse and abuse of state institutions in order to bring down the opposition side of the Sandzak Democratic Action is also happening in Sjenica, directed by the regime's listeners and the Anti-Corruption Agency. Namely, the Party of Democratic Action, the municipal branch in Sjenica, submitted a presentation to the Agency on the existence of a reasonable doubt that Nuhović Nusret's face is in conflict of interest, as he also performs the role of the council and the head of the municipal administration. At one of the previous sessions, I asked a question from the same place and the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Ministers of State Administration and Local Self-Government to obtain knowledge as one of the applicants of the application for a decision to act in a specific case, that by the day of today, and it has been several months, neither I nor the MP nor the SDA's branch in Sjenica, as the applicant of the application, we have received any notice of the outcome. According to the Anti-Corruption Act, Article 81 and Article 90. The Agency shall inform the applicant of the outcome of the procedure. At the same time, the Agency shall adopt a resolution to the other committee of our party on the termination of the parliamentary post, without being able to exercise the right to plead, provided for by Article 79 of the same law, even though there is no declaration. That information was not received by the board, nor was there any evidence of that. With this in mind, I request the Agency to do its job in a safe way, not deciding without notice or notifying other persons who could have misused the notifications, which is why we will file a complaint against a major agency and a criminal complaint against a person who has detained or misrepresented a plea for a plea. I would like to refer my question to the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, Dragan Sikimic, whom I am asking to inform us of concrete procedures and to whom I urge to prevent the abuse of the Agency, whose head it is, in order to deal with the political inexperiences of this government and its listeners in Sandzak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6564	Thank you. The word is Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6565	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to refer the issue to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, which concerns the functioning and operation of local Security Councils. To begin with, it is extremely important that the concept of security in Serbia itself is understood so that its focus is shifted to individual security and when I say that, I mean the security and environment and economic security and health security both at the end and the personal security of every single person in this country. Care for overall security is generally and essentially located in the state's authority through the work of the MUP and the Ministry of Defence, but also local self-government must take over part of the responsibility, and later I will explain exactly what I mean. This means that the state has been really and qualitative lately, but also quantitatively taking a completely different approach when it comes to finding those models that would give the best results, and in order to ensure, above all, that security and security that belongs to them in accordance with the law and the Constitution of this country. In order to achieve this, all factors of a local self-government must actively participate, primarily through the formation of local bodies. Here I think of the Security Council at the level of local self-government units, which are currently over 100 in Serbia. What's so controversial about that? The legal basis for the establishment of the Security Council stems from the statutes of cities and municipalities as the highest legal act of any unit of local self-government, but does not stem from the act of a more legal force, i.e. the law. This basically means that the possibility of establishing, forming and only functioning local security councils depends on the will of local self-government and therefore perhaps needs to find models that will be universal at the level of Serbia as a whole. In addition, such a model of the existence of local security councils gives an unstable character of these same informal, or formal working bodies at local level. They can be of temporary character. Very often, they do not have good co-operation with all factors at the level of local self-government. Perhaps their work for this very reason is not sufficiently recognized and all of this leads us to conclude and to think that another model should be found that implies the obligation to set up such advices as would be established at the level of local self-government. For this reason, I ask that an initiative be launched to amend and supplement those legal solutions, which would place the establishment of local security councils as an obligation, not as a recommendation that leaves enough room for local self-government to decide whether or not to form such bodies at the place. To conclude, today is the Day of Remembrance of Women Victims of Family Violence. Well, is there better motive to provide full protection for women victims of violence in a continuous planned and systematic way through the establishment of a mandatory body in terms of the Local Security Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6566	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6567	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer the first question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, specifically the Ministry of Justice in connection with the maintenance of the sentence of former Republika Srpska President Radovan Karadzic and his transfer to the United Kingdom where he would serve a life sentence. I would remind you that a resolution on the minimum rights of convicted persons was adopted on 17 December 2015. Under this Resolution, there is a chapter called Mendela's Rules, article 59 states that the punishment is maintained as close as possible to the home of convicts. That's what Minister Kuburovic used as an explanation in the UN when she proposed two years ago that Serbia enter into a deal to support the sentence in Serbia. The object they mention is the UN's 1993 recommendation that the punishment should not be maintained in the region by the time it lasts. However, his security has been compromised, and as a drastic example of how to treat prisoners, I would like to list General Krstic, who is a bit of a cut-off. I also remind you that the United Kingdom participated in a conflict on the part of Muslims, leaving the EU, Bregzit. If something happens to Radovan Karadzic, it could be a factor, in our opinion, a serious destabilisation of relations in BiH. In this regard, I am asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Justice, whether the Government and the Ministry of Justice can take action to ensure respect for the resolution on the minimum rights of convicted persons, i.e. to ensure that Radovan Karadzic maintains the prison term in Serbia? Next question. Pressure continues on Serbia on several sides, which has an undecided goal of forcing Serbia to recognise the independence of the self-proclaimed fake state of Kosovo. The latest attacks come again from Pristina, i.e. Vljosa Osmani and Albin Kurti, who are seeking support from regional and European leaders for their interests and for the implementation of their goals. So yesterday, at the Brdo-Brioni summit, Vljosa Osmani, she received support for her politics from Milo Djukanovic, or Montenegro, who unfortunately recognised Kosovo's independence, and Djukanovic also said yesterday that their common goal was to join Kosovo in NATO and the EU. On the other hand, Albin Kurti, who spoke with Angela Merkel through a video link, said the two agreed that the dialogue process should ultimately lead to mutual recognition. Albin Kurti again threatens some kind of genocide suit he will file, according to the International Court of Justice. The self-proclaimed Kosovo is not a sovereign state, in particular, that it could address the International Court of Justice and this time use the attack as a means of defence because it knows perfectly who has committed crimes in KIM in the past more than 100 years, from the First Prizren League to today. Neither the Serb population in the territory of its country was at peace at that time nor today. Those who attacked were never Serbs. Such orchestrated pressure only shows that international law is completely ignored and applied only by the law of force and pressure. Then a fundamental question arises – what is the purpose of international law, what is the role of international organisations and institutions when they do not respond to this obvious threat to the international order? In the case of the Republic of Serbia, it is a harsh violation of UN Security Council Resolution 1244, and thus the UN Charter where international law and justice are located. If everyone on the international political scene only observes that the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of a UN member is clearly and violently violated. In this regard, I would like to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia can address the UN and ask for the respect of the UN Charter which can be considered the Constitution of international law and respect for Resolution 1244, which is the basis for further resolving the KIM issue in line with this Resolution as a document of international law which is also binding on all members of the UN? We consider this important because it is more than obvious that some international factors do not care much about respect for international law, respect for law and justice, which in the case of the Republic of Serbia is one of the most drastic examples of violations of that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6568	Thank you. The word has Djordje Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6569	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Dear citizens, a very important topic in the past week referred to a false statement by Gilas's Portal "directly" which published a text on the conflict of fan factions of the Football Club "Partizan" following the fall of the Principa fans headed by Veljko Belivuk. In Rubrica "Fudbal" directly announces – the war of the undertakers, with statements that are the role of Danil Vukic. So, the name of the son of the President of the Republic of Danil Vukic is being dragged through the text, and they are nevertheless talking about some role of the state in the formation of cheerleading groups at the South Football Club “Partizan”. Now in their statement, they say, quote the parts – Šobic, Kimi, Rosavi, even Rade attended a meeting where Danilo Vukic decided to take over the Southern Tribune with the help of the current government, and with the full support of Danil Vukic. It is not the only part where Danilo Vukic is mentioned, but at the very end they say – we repeat that this scum with the help of the police and the state, which their good friend Danilo will take care of, will try to come back to our sanctuary and defile everything we built and probably build again with some Ustashas or maybe they've moved on to the shiptars there, which wouldn't surprise us. How important and difficult this subject is is that in one part of the text they wrote, therefore, that the taking over of the stands will not go without a fight. So, they announce bloodshed, they announce conflicts, fight for their brothers, arrested brothers, because here in the text they state, all in all, it's clear to you that we're talking about people who weren't on the map, until our brothers are arrested, their brothers are Veljko Belivuk with his friends, so, who are only on their own time, so, so, harassed, slaughtered, murdered, caressing anyone who gets in their way. With that in mind, I'd like to ask REM a question. Is there adequate sanctions for the publication of false text, where a target is drawn at the head of the son of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Danil Vukic, where his life is directly threatened, his safety, because, watch out now, they want to present Danil Vukic, for God's sake, as some new leader of fans in the southern tribune, in order to perfiduously prepare the ground for the scariest scenario. In that sense, their credible sources were long ago and were, therefore, not only in this situation, long ago that Miroslav Miki Aleksic, a convicted thief and liar in the case of Jovanica, Marinika Morović Tepeć, who, along with his drug dealers banished unspeakable journalists from Pančev, in addition to this famous Czech alchemist and exporter of state money abroad, Dragan Đilas, who as soon as he lied, went a step deeper into the frogstretin, and began to pass on statements of fan groups and to me, it was not difficult for you to go to Instagram's website. Sid1970" where these Gilas media reportedly took over a statement, where they do not mention Danil Vukic anywhere but by name and name. So, a lie, a mounted lie, by Gilas directly, mentioning in two places Danil Vukic, there is no mention of Danilo Vukic here in their announcement. The campaign led by it continued two days later, in "Danasoid", there is this Marinika Morović Tepic, who otherwise signs these resolutions on genocide in Srebrenica, although it is not important now, here this detail is important – "Vučić accuses Đilas of being a megaphone Belivuk group" and all doing so in such a way that they are perfidibly re-branding in the text of the son of the president, Danila Vukic, now the original information of Gilas's "direct", because nowhere in a statement called the "South Side", as the cheerleading group, nowhere exists, does not write the name of Danila Vukic. So, these are the credible sources to which Gilas media are called, so I ask the right question, the second question I ask the Ministry of the Interior, is the security and life of the President of the Republic's son threatened with these announcements, because he is permanently and perfiduously working on the crime of the Vukic family and very often, remember only when Alexander Vukic declared war on the mafia, and on that same day he wrote "Vučić by who knows what time he declares war on the mafia, near jokes". It was a joke for them, as is probably a joke drawing a target on the head of the president's son, as is probably another joke, a joke from that unfortunate Corax, who probably defends his brothers from the stained veins, arrested brothers in prison. And what was very important to me was to introduce to you something that was already known to the public, so you all know who's in this picture. In this picture is the son of the President of the Republic, Danilo Vukic. That's what we shouldn't know, and now you're going to see what the children of Dragan Gilas look like, to make it equal. This is what the children of Dragan Gilas look like, no. Because the public doesn't need to know, that's also the point, politicians' children are not part of a political fight and they should never be, and that's why institutions should react, so we have to help them through legal frameworks, so they'll never be part of a political fight and they're not showing up again tomorrow some Danasoids, Gilas's "directly", some Brkicic, who will judge young children, Vukan for three years, says only because his last name is Vukic. Kids can't be part of a political fight, and that practice should get in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6570	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelisaveta Veljkovic and Đuro Peric. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you were delivered the minutes of the ninth session of the First Regular Session in 2021. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Issues, it has been established that none of the Members of Parliament has been sent to that Committee in writing to comment on that minutes, we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the ninth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 21, 22, 27 and 28 April. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178 MPs, for – 156, did not vote 22. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the ninth session of the First Regular Session in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Council of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a draft agenda. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to supplement the agenda and the proposal to merge the debate. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 March. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6571	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the fourth time today, I suggest that the agenda be complemented by my draft law amending and supplementing the Refugees Act. This proposal contains five requests. Firstly, this proposal calls for the government of the Republic of Serbia to commit itself to making a decision to continue the regional housing programme and finally resolve the housing issue of all expelled Serbs from today's Croatia and the Federation of BiH. In Serbia, we still have more than 12,000 exile families still living as tenants or inhumane conditions, and it is high time to resolve the key issue of integration. Only Belgrade lacks the i.e. About 2,500 apartments are to be built, in Novi Sad about 1,000 apartments, in all of Serbia about 7,000 apartments are to be built, about 3,000 packages of construction material are to be provided for the completion of houses for exile families, about 2,000 rural properties and about 1,000 houses. Another requirement is for the government of the Republic of Serbia to allow about 1,000 exile families to have the right to apply to resolve their housing issue. In fact, it is a matter of exile families who did not have the formal legal status of refugees for various reasons and it is absolutely unacceptable for these families to be discriminated against and do not have the right to resolve their housing issue. Third, there are several categories of exile families that have not yet been given the right to buy their apartments under favourable conditions. In the first place, it's 530 families, so-called users. The SYRP programme, the Italian government's programmes, of which 430 exile families are, finally made possible after 13 years of agony to buy their apartments under favourable conditions and finally be on their own. We also have 49 exiled families living in the residences of the DIPOS Real estate company in Belgrade. These families have paid tens of thousands of marks for the past 25, 30 years, i.e. the euro for rent still does not own these apartments. It's high time they finally settled their housing issues in a permanent manner. Finally, we have several hundred refugees, or exiled families, who have received their apartments through the so - called. Social housing programme and social housing programme in protected conditions. To give these families the right to ransom under favourable conditions. The fourth requirement is that all those exiled families who received their apartments be granted a discount of 50%, i.e. to reduce the discount from 50% to 85% of the market price. For two reasons. The first reason is because of EU funds, international donors, various foreign governments. Another reason, is that these apartments are mostly done very badly and unqualityly. The fifth requirement is that all those exiled families who had already signed purchase contracts on a 50% discount, that by annexing the contract and he got a discount of 85%. In the end, I want to say that a large number of exiled families in the past month have called, that people are bitter, dissatisfied and absolutely unable to reconcile with the fact that a regional housing programme is being completed, and that 12,000 families will remain unsettled. In the end, I appeal to the knees of my colleagues to support my bill on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act and to extend the agenda with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6572	When the session opens, then. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: a total of 181, for - five, did not vote – 176. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ana Karadzic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the NATO Pact's committee to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, on 16 November 2020. Anna Karadzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6573	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. From session to session, we suggest that the agenda be complemented by this point, namely the formation of a commission that would determine the exact number of victims of NATO aggression, name and last name. We don't have to adopt this proposal today and put it on the agenda, as we haven't done in almost four years, since we've proposed this, but I'm sure these few minutes that we're going to talk about this, or to say a few words, are really moving towards a solution. We can't change the past, we can't bring back the victims, but we can honor them and we can help families feel more dignified. NATO activists killed our officers, our soldiers, our volunteers, but they also targeted civilian targets, killed our families, killed our children. They tried to mask the crime, something called a humanitarian action, tried to make it look like there was no international community license. But instead, they want to admit it or not, they became criminals who killed over 2,000 civilians, wounded over 6,000 civilians and killed our children, and we don't know the exact number, or names and names of those children. When I say about 2,000 and say about 6,000, that's because we really don't have the exact number. We don't have a list of the names and names of all the people who suffered from NATO aggression in 1999. What separates us from having at least a more honest approach to this tragedy? We are separated by a congregation debate and a day of session and a majority "yes" to finally form this commission that will determine that exact number and make a list of names and names. I really believe that we all here agree that it's a very small effort, and that we don't have to remain in debt to our families or to our victims, and that we don't have to remain in debt to those generations that come after us. You don't know the name and last name who gave his life for your country, you don't know the name and last name who was, as they say, collateral damage because they didn't target civilians. It's kind of embarrassing and it's allowing the aggressor to write our history and make it for us. I ask the Members of Parliament to consider this proposal. As I said, they don't have to vote today, we don't have to put this on the agenda today, but let them think about it because we're going to continue to propose this addition to the agenda and at the next sessions and we're not giving up on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6574	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 181, for – 21, against – one, did not vote 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, pursuant to Article 92 paragraph 2, 157 paragraphs 1 and 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure, he proposed that: 1. Joint principled search on : Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Middle Education and Education, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality and Proposal for a Law on the Reconstruction of Cultural History and Encouragement of the Development of Sremski Karlovac. 2. Joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Document Act, Electronic Identification and Services of Trust in Electronic Business, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Specific Conditions for the Implementation of the Building of Apartments for Security Forces, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, Proposal for a Law on Metro and City Railway and Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on the International Interbus Interbus Transport of Passengers (Agreement) and Decision No. 1/2011 Joint Committee established by Interbus agreement on the international occasional transport of passengers by buses. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 181 for – 167 did not vote – 14. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for supplementing the agenda and the proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 181, for – 172, did not vote – 9. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the 12th session of the First Regular Session in 2021, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Secondary Education and Education, submitted by the Government, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, submitted by the Government, 3. Proposal for a law on gender equality, submitted by the Government, 4. Proposal for a law on the restoration of cultural - historical heritage and the promotion of the development of Sremski Karlovac, which was submitted by the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Planning and Construction, submitted by the Government, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business, submitted by the Government, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Specific Conditions for the Implementation of the Building of Apartments Project for Security Forces, submitted by the Government, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, which was submitted by the Government, 9. Proposal for a law on subways and city railways, submitted by the government, 10. A proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the International Periodic Transport of Passengers by Buses (Interbus Agreement) and Decision No. 1/2011 Joint Committee established by Interbus agreement on the international occasional transport of passengers by buses, submitted by the Government, 11. List of candidates for the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Information. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Before we go any further, as you know, we'll be doing Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Given that there is one significant number of amendments, we'll see if we can finish it by the end of Thursday or we'll have a follow-up on Friday or next week. I hope we're done by Thursday. Next week is the last week of a regular session and we'll have a two-point session on the agenda. I've already scheduled it for next Tuesday. The 20th is the end of a regular session, on Saturday 29th, at midnight. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Branko Ružić, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Gordana Komic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, Igor Mirović, Prime Minister of the Province, Mina Rolović Jočić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, Nina Mitić, Assistant Minister for Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, Milos Blagojevic, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technology, Ivana Joksimović, Deputy Minister for Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, Svetlana Djordjevic, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Human and Minority Dialogue and Social Dialogue, Mirjana Vlahović, Head of Legal Affairs, Minister for Public Education and Education at the Minister's Education and Minister's Educational Education, Education and Educational Educational Council, Minister for Educational Educational Education, Minister of Education and Minister of Education, Minister of Education and Minister of Education, Minister of Education, Minister of Education and Minister of Education, Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Minister of Education of Education, Ministers and Minister of Education and Ministers and Minister for Education of Education of Education, Minister of Education, Ministers and Ministers and Ministers and Ministers and Minister of Education. I want to say hello, today we have the president of Sremski Karlovci municipality at the Aleksandar Saša Stojkečić Gallery. Given that the draft law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and incentivising the development of Sremski Karlovci is on the agenda, and as you have heard, I welcomed the Prime Minister, bearing in mind that the AP Vojvodina has a legislative initiative and this law is on the agenda on the basis of their proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Middle Education and Education, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality and Proposal for a Law on the Reconstruction of Cultural History Heritage and Encouraging the Development of Sremski Karlovac. I will now give the word to the proposing representatives, but I just want to let you know that at this point in the Small Hall, it's beginning to mark 20 years since the opening of the Council of Europe office in Belgrade, so I'm going to have to go out. And Minister Gordana Comic will be there, so she will contact you as soon as it is over. Now which one of the proposings who are here wants a word? Mr. Rose, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6575	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Middle Education and Education, which contains practically several amendments to so far's provisions. The most important change relates to the start of national graduation. State graduation is a term that we use to unite the whole process with one name and consists of a final exam after three years of schooling, then from a general, professional and artistic graduation with which four years of secondary schooling ends. The move to introduce these exams practically in two years, which would mean that the first final exam will be held at the end of school 2022/23. The year of three years, and the full implementation of the state's graduation will take place with a general, professional and artistic graduation at the end of school 2023/24. A year. I have a need to present today as far as the project of state graduation, which I suppose and know that there is a certain misunderstanding, and also on the other hand an understanding, that there are some disagreements, but I certainly want to express our desire as the Ministry to make the whole process as transparent, inclusive as possible and not to do anything rashly or superficially. That's why very soon from the moment of taking over this resistor we have formed a committee that will follow every step and ensure that everything is done exactly as I have stated. In the last few months, the commission has met five times. We have recently also held a meeting with all the rectors and deans of the university in the Republic of Serbia, to ensure that all actors are thoroughly informed and informed, consulted, but of course to take and assume their share of responsibility in this process. The idea of national prom dates back to 2008, 2009 was to school 2014/15. the year will be implemented, however, there have been a lot of legal discrepancies, then certainly some objective circumstances, such as the pandemic last year. All these things led to a situation like this. But what I would say is most missing, it's full coordination, inclusive approach to this process and transparency in work. However, I would not go back too far in the past, nor is it too important, because it is the urgency that we are all now in agreement and that we do everything to take this step or step forward in this part of the education system, given that it is a major reform move or procedure and that this treats the issue of more than 60,000 graduate high school students throughout our Republic. Personally, I wasn't in a position to rush this project, I was in a position to do it in a way that was consistent. Therefore, MPs now face the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, which will move that start of implementation, especially given the student's interest, as a major change is being introduced which precedes the difficult completion of secondary education and due to the changed conditions caused by the pandemic. A number of preparations have been made in the process so far, the legal basis has been given, the programmes are prescribed, the task bases have been prepared, the support of informing all actors, the site has been established, the first piloting was carried out in October of last year with some 5,000 third-graders and the next piloting is scheduled for April 2022. I think now we really have enough time to prepare all levels of education for realisation. It is also a very valuable support provided by the European Union, where we are truly extremely grateful, especially through their project team, which provides expert support for all participants to be informed and trained, to run the process in the best manner, but there is certainly financial support for this process. The Ministry has approached the whole story very seriously. It is intended that the state graduate has a certification character in the final epilogue, i.e. to confirm that acquired level of knowledge of students in secondary, art schools and high school schools, but also a qualification character, in terms of passing and enrollment in a certain higher education institution, except, of course, for those colleges where certain skills are needed, such as some art colleges or the Faculty of Physical Culture. State graduation, therefore, should become a bond between high school and higher education, a tool that will raise the quality of high school education and allow enrolment to higher education institutions. In the whole process, it is important that universities verify the final results and recognise it as a gateway, because this will improve the practical enrolment of graduate high school students to studies, but also allow higher availability of higher education for high school students, but not at all cost quality. In this way, we would line up most of the European countries that have such a system. Because of the importance of the whole story, it is important that we resolve all misunderstandings and provide sufficient information for all interested participants, so, students, parents, educators. There are, of course, great challenges ahead of us, but be assured that through a dialogue that we have practically given to dynamics, we will try to find a safe and reliable way to implement this project in a sustainable way. As for the other changes and additions, they refer to a few things. First, certain amendments are necessary in the members of the Law on secondary education, which are prescribed records kept by the secondary school and the data which are practically part of these records, as well as provisions prescribed by the data provided by the primary school when enroling students in high school. Amendments are necessary for the purpose of harmonising the Law on secondary education and education with the provisions of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which are prescribed registers and data kept by institutions in the field of education, in line with the introduction of the portal "My High School. “My high school, ” that is, this portal represents a new digital service in the system of education that fully digitises the entire procedure regarding enrolment in high school. All the entries, from registration, through complaint to results and wish lists, to the very enrolment of the school, we moved practically to a digital platform, to the Internet, to the portal "Mojasrednaskola.gov.rs". This enables all administrative work on enrolment by parents from home and this is another step in the process of digitising the system of education and services it provides. It is a huge progress, but also a great deal of work, which is why we really owe thanks to the Information Technology Office, which has provided one great professional support and worked on this project together with us, because their expertise has been crucial in achieving this common goal, but above all the objectives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. We had an idea, they knew the way that idea was realized. The joint work of education experts and IT experts has produced such a good result because of such a synergy. Secondly, a norm is introduced that also provides for the possibility of the realization of foreign language teaching in combined groups where students from different classes are. In this way, in exceptional cases, a legal possibility would be obtained to form a foreign language group and when the number of students is small. Making it possible to teach a foreign language at a school where the student is enrolled during the school year will affect the higher quality of student achievements. Unless there is a regular course during the school year, students take a class exam at the end of the year, which practically increases their obligations. The formation of foreign language study groups from two or more different classes that have at least 15 students, i.e. a combined group of two or more different classes, which has at least 12 students in students' classes with special abilities for philology sciences, with the agreement of the minister, shall allow regular teaching. This problem of forming a foreign language study department is particularly present in high schools where, apart from general types and directions, there is a department for students with special abilities for philology sciences. The plans of these departments are different and can't form groups from these departments. The change of this standard would allow students to exercise their right to regular education instead of taking that class exam, and this standard would allow for regular teaching of another foreign language and significantly improve the language competences of those students, because instead of having 10 hours of prep classes and a class exam, there would be 74 hours in a group that makes up different ages of students and peer learning would be more advanced. It is important to point out that this standard is applied only in exceptional cases, so in mixed secondary schools with one high school class, with one specialized class in high school, in border areas and in high school departments in minority languages. Translated in Serbian, it refers to about eight to ten high schools or schools with these departments. The last amendments I shall mention relate to compliance with Article 177 paragraph 1 point 2. The Law on the founding of an education and education system, which provides for data in the records entered into the registers of the single information system of education. Amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education and education shall be made to the harmonisation which is necessary for this very reason, thus bringing the Data Protection and Personality Act into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6576	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister of Vojvodina, Igor Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6577	Thank you. I'm the president of the province government, because they always correct me when I make a lapus. Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the Law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and the promotion of the development of the Sremski Karlovci. When, on behalf of one law, the name of our old Serbian glory, the Sremski Karlovci, is incorporated, it is enough even to study the history of the Sremski Karlovci and to see that it is actually the history of our people. It also lays the need to be introduced after 30 years of law-making, and the first Law on the restoration of the cultural and historical heritage of the Sremski Karlovac was introduced in 1991 and was applied in parallel with an inadequate amount of financial resources and inadequate attention, given everything we have been through in the 1990s and twenty-thousands of years. Thus, the first law had already taken into account the importance of the Sremski Karlovci and the need for its comprehensive renewal. We have managed the fact that a law has already been in our legislative practice and in our legal traffic, but as a proposer we have used the right to yet propose a new text of the law, so that we do not enter into the proposed amendments and additions, and that we do not at the same time remain silent about the fact that the existing law does not apply. We have decided to exercise our right and to propose to you, the honourable MPs of the National Assembly, a new law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and the promotion of the development of the Sremski Karlovci. I hope I don't have to, but for the public's sake, I'm still going to say a few important notes to the public, and I hope that I don't have to underline it to you, get a glimpse of what's so valuable in the Sremski Karlovci that deserves your attention, the attention of the general public, deserves to be passed by a very special law that I am confident with common forces to promote the restoration of this great legacy. Sremski Karlovci is also mentioned in 1308, and since 1532, according to old books from the Krušedol monastery, they bear the Slovenian name Sremski Karlovci. In the Sremski Karlovci, 1699, the so-called "Sremski Karlovci" was concluded. The Carlos peace between, on the one hand, the Ottoman Empire and, on the other hand, the Holy League after a long war that lasted before that, consisting of Austrians, Poles and Milks. By then there was one, I can say freely, important value in the Sremski Karlovci, the Chapel of Peace, which will also be the subject of reconstruction and protection when we unite all the forces after the adoption of this law. Since 1713, there has been the headquarters of the SPC Mytropolis and already the most significant objects of our current religious heritage, the lower church, and in 1726 the first Serbian school, followed by a large number of other temples. The rise of the Sremski Karlovac is in the second half of the 18th century when Pavle Nenadovic, when the first printing place was formed, was built by the Assembly Church in 1770 and the first hospital. The importance of the Sremski Karlovac is even greater with Stefan Stratimirovic's election for Mitrovica at the end of the 18th century, in fact on 1 November 1792, the first high school in the Serbs, which was built by the contributions and the merchants themselves in Sremski Karlovci, and the most significant contribution was made by Dimitrije Anastassijević Sabo, and his home today exists in Sremski Karlovci and will be the subject of reconstruction and reconstruction, if of course we can unite the forces if you support this bill today. In Sremski Karlovci, the first pharmacy was created, since 1807, and in 1809, the first cartoon school, the magistrate, and in 1848, a famous Mayan assembly where Serbs at that time, declared Serbia's Vojvodina and paved the way for a political programme that was definitely confirmed in 1918 at the large National Assembly in November 1918, when Vojvodina joined the Kingdom of Serbia. Twenty Mytropolitans and Patriarch sat in the Sremski Karlovci. A number of great figures from our history, such as Branko Radičević, Vuk Stefanović Karadzic, General Djordz Stratimirovic, Duke of Stevan Šupljik, Lukian Mušić, Jovan Sterija Popović, were taught there by the school, until yesterday by our contemporaries who shared both time and cultural space with us here. I'll only mention one Michiz. I hope this is a sufficient introduction and sufficient public evidence why we must join together and unite forces. The law stipulates that we are forming a kind of effective committee, which will work under the auspices of the Serbian government, which will take over the programme of restoration of cultural and historical heritage and, together with the competent institutions for the protection of cultural monuments, with the republican, rural and urban institutions in Novi Sad, will take a number of steps to restore this cultural and historical heritage and could be put into function of economic development and overall development, not only of the Sremski Karlovac. I must remind you and once again say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done everything to make, above all, traffic-related, so, when it comes to economic development an extremely important thing, Sremska Karlovce makes it much more accessible in the future. Already sometime in January or February, we will have a fast track from Novi Sad, i.e. from Belgrade to Novi Sad, which will pass through the Sremski Karlovci. The Serbian government has helped build a port on the Danube, in the area of Sremski Karlovac, and by building the Fruskogorski Corridor, by building a bridge that will connect Kovilj, Petrovaradin and part of Novi Sad, the Sremski Krlovci will, practically, take the highway to a traffic station that many people and these two other modes of transport will be able to communicate and be guests of Sremski Karlovci in the future. Also, I have to tell you that we haven't been waiting. This law will help us to unite forces, but I also want to introduce you to the fact that in the past two years the Provincial Government has also had its Fund for the Reconstruction of the Sremski Karlovci, which means that we are ready to welcome the moment when, after the adoption of this law, the Government of Serbia, through the appropriate committee, which will make representatives of the Government, representatives of the Regional Government, will have the ready-to-be project documentation, with the aim of starting, or continuing to be renewed in an even greater extent. Some information. The reconstruction of the Patriarchal Court façade is under way. Also under way is the reconstruction of theology building in Sremski Karlovci. Otherwise, the seminary in the Sremski Karlovci is the second religion, looking at the antiquity, so to speak, the first religion in the Orthodox world is theology in Kiev, and this is our religion in the Sremski Karlovci, given the historical continuity, is the second compared to the time it was founded. The work is under way to reconstruct the facade of the Assembly Temple, as well as to reconstruct the facade of the Roman Catholic Church building. Also, we have prepared project documentation for the parenting of the centre of Sremski Karlovac, then project documentation for the future archive, which will be located in the building of Svetosavski dom. Otherwise, in Sremski Karlovci there is also the seat of the SPC Archives, and the seat of the SANU Archives, and numerous other institutions and institutions. I will only mention the Institute of Winery and Winemaking, which is also there. We have also prepared project documentation for the reconstruction of 21 façades in the protected zone of the Sremski Karlovci, and here, it is only one example of the start of reconstruction that will certainly be more comprehensive and quality, given the need to pass this law. Our ultimate goal is not only to restore the most significant public facilities, but to infrastructure the Sremski Karlovci, to create conditions for the development of cultural content in Sremski Karlovci, on a much larger scale. Then, in order to help economic development, but also to measure the ambience of the Sremski Karlovacs themselves, as well as the ecological standards to which we must strive to implement this process of realisation, so that the whole of the work has high energy standards, that during the period during which we will unite forces and work together on the basis of the provisions of this law, business development, in particular winemaking, beekeeping, vineyarding in Sremski Karlovci, but that in some ways and other means, through other funds is encouraged and development of tourism. This will mean that as a people, we are able to restore one of our most significant places when it comes to our history, as someone said in a discussion on the Committee on Culture and Information, it will mean that we are capable of looking at ancestors, looking at everything they have left us create conditions for today's life, but we are also creating conditions to show our ability in front of the offspring, to restore what the most significant people of our history have left as a great value. I am convinced that you will support the text of this law and I am confident that since December when the 2022 budget of the Republic of Serbia is discussed, we will have more generous financial resources for the restoration of Sremski Karlovci. The law provides that the funds are to be pooled and when it comes to the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the AP Vojvodina budget, the local self-government budgets, but we will be more active when it comes to raising funds from the European and other funds. This will mean much greater preparedness, much greater engagement, and I believe, in a practical sense, that in four to five years we can talk about the complete and comprehensive restoration of this great place of ours and that we have returned the debt to the generations that have created it and worked through all these examples, the importance of the place itself and the importance of the people who have created great values in our history that we are proud of today. I would like to invite you to support this law and help us be one of the great teams that will restore the Sremski Karlovci and thereby repay the great debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6578	I thank the president of the province government. We're moving on to reports from the committees in charge. The word is made by Vice-President of the Elvira Kovac National Assembly, in front of the Committee on European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6579	Thank you, Your Honor. The presidency, the president of the province government, Deputy Prime Minister, co-chairs of the Ministry of Human and Minority Dialogue and Social Dialogue, on behalf of the Committee on European Integration after a session held yesterday and a debate of two draft laws, we would like to stress that the negotiation process in Serbia's accession to the European Union has shown, unfortunately, that existing solutions, meaning in the current laws since 2009, are not in line with relevant EU legislation and, in particular, in relation to the application of principles, equal treatment of men and women in the access and supply of goods and services in the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of women and men with regard to employment, self-employment and exercise of interest. What is now significant, which we talked about yesterday and what the Committee found, is that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination is now finally in line with secondary sources of EU law and Directive 43 of 29 June 2000 on the implementation of the principles of equal treatment, regardless of racial or ethnic origin, Directive 78 of 27 November 2000, the General Framework for Equal Treatment of Citizens in Employment at Work, is extremely significant. When we talk about the second bill, the draft law on gender equality, and it is in line with Council Directive 113 of 13 December 2004, on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women on access to goods and services, Directive 54 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the application of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment to men and women in matters of employment and occupation, as well as Directive 41 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 July 2010 on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women who are self-employed, of course, aware that the long-term objective of adopting a whole new law on gender equality has been to establish, improve, maintain gender equality, and we are aware that it will actually be measured by an index of gender equality, i.e.e. the EU gender equality index which is actually applied in the Republic of Serbia since the end of 2018. From the point of view of European integration, I would like to emphasise the importance of action plans. Namely, the key anti-discrimination policies of gender equality form the third part of the special Action Plan for the extremely significant Chapter 23 on fundamental rights. As we know, it was revised in the second half of last year and the revised Action Plan is envisaged, then the government has accepted the obligation to finalise the following activities by the end of last 2020, so by the fourth quarter, we are still a little late, last year, just what we are doing – amendments and additions to the Law on Prohibit of Discrimination, the adoption of a new strategy on prevention and protection against discrimination and, of course, a significant accompanying action plan, the adoption of a completely new law on gender equality, which I hope happens at the end of this or early next week, the development of a new national strategy and action plan to prevent violence against women in the family and partner relations, because this strategy, as we know, has long expired. We are pleased that on 22 April this year, the government adopted a strategy to prevent gender-based violence against women and domestic violence for the period from 2021 to 2025. Freedom of equality and prohibition of discrimination is in an unbreakable relationship with what is now the basis of the EU's identity, which is a commitment to the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and rule of law, which are contained in preambles as the 1992 Mastricht Treaty, so-called. The Treaty on the EU, as well as the Lisbon Treaty, which is known to have entered into force in 2009. The Lisbon EU Treaty defines gender equality with multidimensional aspects. First of all, Article 2 of this Treaty states that equality and respect for human rights are the EU's founding principles. The Lisbon Treaty on the EU also sets out the mandatory application of the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights, and the Committee on European Integration has therefore given a positive opinion on these draft laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6580	Thank you, colleagues. The president of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, MP Dr. Muamer Bačevac, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6581	Dear Ministers, the distinguished prime minister of the province's government, distinguished guests, today is the Day of Remembrance of Women Victims of Family Violence. In fact, on May 18, 2017, only 72 hours later, seven women were killed in domestic violence in our country. That moment was a great alarm that our government this day declared the Day of Remembrance of Victims of Family Violence, wanting to point to one trend, one increase in violence against women in the family, not just with us, but in the whole world. And of course we, MPs of the SDP, are our officials, but also our entire coalition, initiated and stood behind this one plan. But today, in the world besides the pandemic of the virus, we have a pandemic and violence in the family. Unfortunately, although the reports of our country's MUP show that we have fewer applications, however, by the number of calls made to SOS phones and by the reports of organisations dealing with the protection of women at risk of this violence, we have almost threefold increase and this is a trend that exists both in France and in the UK and in other countries. As a state, we have adopted three excellent and exceptional laws that try to prevent this extremely bad, cataclysmic phenomenon in our society, which are the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality. I've done this due diligence to point out the importance of these laws today, because discrimination and inequality are the basic preconditions for the violence that follows them. So I think that these laws are very important to our society and that we should support them, because they give us basic leverage to prevent domestic violence, but also to reduce gender-based discrimination, as well as discrimination in every other aspect, which is unfortunately present in our society. Last week, on Friday, organized by the Commissioner for Gender Equality, we had a special report on the discrimination of older people here, listening, and me as someone who comes from the interior where special commitment to the elderly is, I was baffled by the fact that the other basis for applying to the Trustee is discrimination against our older citizens. We're a society that's old and I want to point out to you the importance of the Discrimination Act. If racism and anti-Semitism were the dominant forms of discrimination in the last century, ejayism is dominant and could become the most present form of discrimination in the 21st century. Ajjism is stereotypes, prejudices and discrimination over years of age, and the term itself was forged by one doctor, wanting to point to the coming tide of discrimination against older people. Especially all of us who today are fighting for the rule of law, justice, equality and preservation of individual freedoms, which are the basis of our democracy, have the obligation to strengthen these foundations and continue to build our Serbia as an open democratic and tolerance society that guarantees citizens equality under the law, but goes further and creates conditions for true chances for all citizens and citizens of all generations, regardless of gender, religious, national, ethical, property or any other property. Finally, in Arabic, the word "elmerah" is termed "elmerah", which is a reference from the Arabic word "el mirah", translated as a mirror. No matter how much love or hatred a man shows for a woman, she will return to him, like a mirror that shows you the way you are and who you really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6582	Thank you. The word has the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, national MP Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6583	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Jevdzic. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Prime Minister of the province, the Committee on Culture and Information, of course, gave a positive opinion on the proposal for a law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and incentivising the development of Sremski Karlovac. We had a very fruitful debate, which took a really long time and it seems to me that we didn't limit it to time, to last even longer than yesterday we had the opportunity to listen to the questions asked by the Committee members to the Prime Minister. It seems to me that through this debate we have also managed to reach new conclusions, concerning the historical and cultural heritage of the Sremski Karlovci, and we have had on the other hand a conversation that was ready and was willing to listen to us, but also to respect certain proposals of MPs that will not be implemented through this law, but certainly through some future practice can also be how welcome and on the way of development of the Sremski Karlovci, because this is exactly what we are trying to do. After 30 years, we return to the idea of academics Dejan Medakovic, one of the initiators of the 1991 law, and to meet a hundred-year anniversary of his birth. This new law should be fully and comprehensive in financial, technical and organisational terms, allowing a stable institutional, financial framework for sustainable development and the restoration of a unique cultural heritage, such as the Sremski Karlovci, which is not an ordinary city, but have one historical legate that they carry with them, something that is left for our generations to restore, to preserve and, of course, leave to our descendants, who will certainly bear the history and the glorious days of the Sremski Karlovci, which we will return to the big door this way. I welcome this opportunity and the initiative to adopt these kinds of amendments and amendments to the law, a large number of laws in the area of culture and the preservation of cultural heritage. Here you can clearly see the commitment and motivation of the Government, the National Assembly, but in this case both the District Government and the local self-government are precisely in the arrangement of areas which seem to me to have been marginalized in the area of culture for many years. In this way, in every sense, the Sremski Karlovci, in terminology, will note once more, known as the historical city and the former center of cultural, religious life, educational etc. They get their formal legal framework and it is very important to actually modernise the legal standards that will contribute to making these over 230 million, which are planned for the restoration and development of the Sremski Karlovac, for different project-technical documentation, really get its old glow and thus enrich our tourist offer, Serbia's tourist offer. On the other hand, we remain very clearly on the path of economic prosperity, economic development, because this will condition not only the development of tourism, but also the economy of the entire and the very people of Sremski Karlovci, but also its environment. In view of the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor, the construction of a fast track, the Sremski Karlovci will certainly get one completely different strategic importance and hopefully in this sense we will not only escort the Sremski Karlovci into the manner they deserve, but we will contribute to the development of the entire area and the Sremski Karlovci themselves and contribute both to the life and living standards of the citizens of Sremski Karlovac. I ask you, given that today we have these two very important laws, that this third law, which is also extremely important, is in your discussions, because I believe that and how there is something to be said. I also ask the members of the Committee on Culture and Information to transfer at least a part of the information that we received yesterday on the Committee on Culture and Information, since I think this is just one example of good practice in which, in the future and in the future, we can arrange some other cities in Serbia that are of this kind of historical importance. In voting day, we will support this law. I ask that today's discussion be equal, in the sense that, regardless of what the Law on Gender Equality, the prohibition of discrimination is causing so much attention, and this law is on your agenda, in terms of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6584	Thank you, colleague Christmas. The word is made by the chairman of the Education Committee, MP Dr Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6585	The President-in-Office, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Education Committee was sitting on the proposed amendments to the Law on Middle Education and Education, having a very high-quality debate, following the same high-quality explanation of the Ministry's representative, so State Secretary, Mrs Dukić Mijatovic, and I must say that on the issue of the work concerning the state's graduation, there was nothing disputed and there was full support there. With regard to this part of the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law relating to these mixed departments for the field of philology, we had a very high quality discussion and a very dissuasive opinion and certain reserves which were presented by individual members of the committee. In terms of reservations, therefore, the mergers of groups, i.e. the creation of certain groups by verticals. So when you're making, you combine groups by horizon, different departments, there's no problem, but when it comes to joining groups by verticals, so where in the same group you have a first class student, third or fourth grade, there's a certain reservation. The arguments were exchanged between MPs, members of the Committee and also representatives of the ministry. True, after that debate, the Committee gave full support to these proposals, with a view to hearing today's debate here at the tide, and if we get a certain argument that something needs to be fixed, we also have room for this session until the vote, including some possibility of a committee amendment. We have in some way left this question open, but with this observation we have certainly also given support to these proposals, including other proposals that touch other topics. What I want to convey here from the Committee, from this session and from certain other sessions, is that voices are increasingly heard that, in addition to, I can say, the excellent steps that the Ministry and the Government have taken to monitor all the challenges and needs in the legislative matter itself, I can say that we have the agreement here by the Committee and the Ministry that this is going well, but there are more and more votes from the Committee that we will have to deal with certain essential issues more significantly. True, we are all waiting for this great challenge to end, and this trial with the kovid pandemic that has imposed on us, among other things, and the need to fight this trial in special circumstances, but not only to fight the pandemic, but also to carry out our duties. When it comes to education, you know for a fact that it is one of the areas, I can say, the most affected after the economy, i.e. the economy where, I must admit, it was found on the Committee itself that both the government and the competent ministry passed this exam and they did their best to find the best way to ensure that in these exceptional circumstances quality and within possible limits teaching takes place. I hope that we will have no more serious consequences, although teaching cannot be compared under extraordinary circumstances and teaching under regular circumstances. Waiting for all this to end, we are convinced that after all these procedural, legislative activities that we are working together, a little deeper in education, not only secondary, but also in other aspects of education, basic, because the fact is that we have a certain gap between good laws, good legal solutions and the integrity that we are doing in this field and quality itself, not only the implementation of these laws, but actually achievements in terms of what is a mission and the role of the entire education system. In this regard, of course, on the part of the Committee, we have the full support of the National Assembly that this law, after the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, will be exhausted and in principle, hopefully in particular, will be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6586	Thank you. The word is held by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, Mr Mirovic, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of Serbia with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft laws to be discussed today by the MPs were discussed at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives where we found that they were in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and we delivered the Report to the National Assembly. I would like to devote some time today to the Law on Gender Equality, since I am also a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network in the National Assembly, as well as the current co-ordinator of the Women's Committee Network at the Red Cross Assembly in Nis and I haven't spoken about the subject here in a while, and I would like to single out certain benefits of adopting such a proposal. When we mention gender equality, the first thing we hear very often is how women fight for their rights again and demand that they be represented everywhere. In fact, what involves the principle of gender equality is equality, so providing equal opportunities for women and men to participate in political, economic and at all in each segment of a society by contributing, but also enjoying results. The proposal ahead of us is aimed at certainly improving gender equality, to prevent gender discrimination, so that its application should, above all, reduce the need to conduct certain judicial proceedings, which will also reduce the burden on the courts, as well as at creating the costs incurred on that occasion. For example, when it comes to procedures in which it is, as the main element, discrimination is determined on the basis of gender or gender. When we want to discuss a bill, of course, we are talking first about the objectives set in drawing up a draft, or a bill, and whether it will be a really positive response to the law as expected. This is primarily about improving and achieving gender equality, strengthening institutional mechanisms, as well as predicting mandatory measures to improve gender equality by introducing control and supervision when applying this law. What is certainly a priority, is the achievement of a higher gender equality index that shows on a scale of 1 to 100 the situation in this area, taking into account six topics, which are knowledge, work, money, health, time and power, but also violence and registration of inequality, as two specific topics. According to the index, it can be concluded that Serbia has progressed, but conclusions can be drawn as to what else to work on. It should work to increase the number of women in the leading positions, balance women and men's representation in governance bodies in all areas. In all areas of the country, a legal and institutional framework should be established to monitor and improve gender equality, both at the republic and local level, and I think it is a good thing that a body will be formed with the Serbian government, which will also have a certain advisory function. I expect a constructive debate in the prime minister's principle. We'll discuss the details in the discussion of the details. I hope that we will succeed in these few days to send out messages from parliament how important it is for us to apply policy equal opportunities for all, so that we can further improve our democratic society and give everyone a chance to participate in the same way. I want to end with a reminder of May 18th, which is the Day of Remembrance of Women Victims of Violence, which has been established by the Serbian government in memory of seven women who lost their lives within 72 hours in domestic violence, primarily in Belgrade, Chačka, Great Plana and Kanjiza. Not just today, every day we have to talk about the violence that exists. It is up to us first of all not to turn our heads and give support to the victims, but to give support to both institutions in solving the problem and in planning an adequate fight against all these forms of violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6588	Thank you. Before we move on to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, does Minister Comic want a word, since she was justifiably absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6589	I thank and apologize to all the MPs, because in the Small Hall of our National Assembly, a conference is held dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the work of the Council of Europe Office in Serbia, and it was simply an obligation to attend. I thank you for understanding and with the hope that we will take this as a very good coincidence, because in one room we are talking about commitment and commitment and two decades of work of the Council of Europe Office in Serbia, and in this room we are talking about the same way that we are building a rule of law together, building together and agreeing on the mosaic of the culture of human rights and how the laws we are making are quite unequivocally clear to all those to whom the law will address the questions about how this will improve their lives, why this will happen, how much it costs, who will pay, and how we will measure whether the provisions in the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Discrimination and the proposal of the Law on Gender are exactly the ones that will allow the best possible solutions in life. That is why I am grateful to all of you who have carefully read the bill's proposal, have submitted amendments, because we have created a space for dialogue, for the possibility of making many solutions together better, as I am grateful and expert opinions of experts of the Council of Europe on remarks, comments and proposals for amendments and additions to the solutions that the working group has made by adopting the draft, and the Government voted on it, by sending you a proposal. That is why in brief on the history of both of these regulations in Serbia for the past 20 years, as is the Office of the Council of Europe. Politics actually deals with two things as a matter of fact. It's the first one to change space. Here, at this session you will have the opportunity to discuss and how space to change, as well as how to preserve a culturally important, historical heritage, important space for Serbia. The space when it changes, it takes a lot of knowledge, a lot of good pictures, a lot of talk about how some new city, some new hydropower plant, some new highway, a new mine, a new forest, is going to change our lives for the better. A policy that changes space deals through its sectors with everything that we live in needs to be human, better, healthier and more human for all of us. The second topic of politics is to change social relations and this change is going much harder than changing space. In this it is an illustration of how the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality, and then before gender equality, how difficult it was to travel through institutions, through criticism of public opinion, through resistance, through prejudice, through behavior based on prejudice that all this is nonsense, that all this does not exist and that there is no discrimination in Serbia and that women are very great and that we do not see reasons for the regulation. You can't deny life for as long as it takes to explain the obvious, which is that discrimination exists, that human rights culture in Serbia needs to be built committed every day, and that women are unequal in many positions, without any other basis, other than the behavior insulted in the prejudice that they don't deserve better, and that constantly rebelling, some feminists or some evil people who don't understand how women in Serbia are, in fact, great. When you look at chronology, you try to make regulations, then you see and you deliberately don't talk about who the government was, who the opposition was, because it doesn't matter. Resistance to social change, resistance to behavioral change, resistance to human rights culture is evenly distributed through various social groups, through all political ideologies, through all structures and all institutions, not only in Serbia, but on the entire planet. That's why winning freedom goes so hard, since the resistance is organized. So practically, when it comes to discrimination, Serbia has come from the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities because these resistances still have a problem for humanity. You can't deny the obvious, how often people with disabilities, people with any difference to us, how often they are discriminated against. Since it's obvious that someone who doesn't have freedom of movement, but uses a wheelchair, doesn't have a ramp, that someone who's blind or weak-sighted, can't know what the elevator button is, that someone who has a child with developmental disorders, doesn't have access to treatment or rest, that someone who's disabled can't get a job and can't be treated as a human being who also needs income, as well as people without disabilities. So in 2003, in 2004 Serbia went into a thorny and long way to fight discrimination, against the will that people only slightly different from us to treat them with humiliation, with impatience, sometimes with hate speech, and very often the worst thing you can do to another human being is make it invisible to you, as if it doesn't exist, that it's air. It's neglect or demeaning because people are prone to narcissism small differences. How little is a person with disabilities different from us? How much less different is someone who's half different from us? How little is one by faith, by nation, by ethnic origin, by sexual orientation? How little is different from us, but some of us find it quite enough to choose intolerance spontaneously. It's the first point of resistance to any kind of fight against discrimination. People say impatience is spontaneous. He can't stand it, he has to tell him, he's got to downplay him, he's bad, he's unnecessary, he's like this, he's like that, and that impatience is spontaneous makes fighting for the culture of human rights so hard, because you have to lay down regulations that you'll forbid behavior based on prejudice to have the right to impatience towards other human beings. We don't. None of us are and many of us are inclined to do so and therefore there is a first draft law on the prohibition of discrimination that failed to pass either the Government or the Assembly, and another draft law on the ban on discrimination that barely passed the Government, but did not pass the Assembly, and finally the third draft law on discrimination finally adopted in the National Assembly. We change that law today because life requires us to change it. A similar thorny path has passed the Law on Gender Equality. At the very beginning of the fight for human rights culture, the Vojvodina Assembly made a decision on gender equality, considering it its jurisdiction. They had a council member in charge of gender equality. Afterwards, they transferred it to the secretariat that was involved. They made a decision about the Institute of Equality and then tried to apply it all on the ground. Four years later, the Serbian Parliament finally adopted together with the strategy and these regulations, essentially building mechanisms, institution building, fighting, dialogue, to change the lives of people exposed to discrimination in Serbia. The surprise caused 20 years ago when the Council of Europe's office began to work. It was a miracle that some of us claimed that there was domestic violence. It has been said that it is a violence and a crime like any other and that we want to destroy traditional Serbian families. Twenty years later, and with the work of the Law on Family Equality, which deals with domestic violence, I hope that through dialogue we will agree that the only thing that destroys Serbian families or any kind of violence will be destroyed. The only thing you can do as a society is claim what is obvious and explain what is obvious, that there is no private violence. Every violence is a public matter, every violence is a public concern, because it is a concern for the general good in society and family violence and then, as a result, how we have fought together against discrimination and other types of violence, peer violence, street violence, media violence, any kind of violence that "creates a culture of violence" that needs to be fought, which needs to be crowned because it lowers the quality of life of each of us. Very often whenever I started a dialogue of this kind I was immediately accused of being something against the Serb people and against Serbia and my answer was impossible, because this people have in their culture the word humanity, which means guard others from themselves. Thus began the fight against discrimination in literature, in culture, in the narrative of this people who understands how important it is to keep others from themselves. And the fact that we share human nature with other peoples is what we are fighting by banning discrimination, what we are fighting by referring to the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. How do we do that? By using the narrative and culture of our society in which there is a word of humanity. Should we perhaps introduce that word into the Constitution? I'd love to, but they say it's not constitutional matter. It's not constitutional, but it is deep inside of us who have been taught this language, this culture and the way we treat people. However, we are part of a planetary state where domestic violence is a problem, in which each third woman has a direct experience of family violence, in which, on average, 30 to 35 women are killed annually in domestic violence. Men were also killed at least 10 of them a year, fathers, husbands, brothers, sons. So, if we want to fight violence, then first, we need to understand in this dialogue that violence is what destroys the family and that the basic task and role of society to combat this violence is to fight effectively, preventively, in good time. The provisions on combating violence have been introduced in the draft law on gender equality during one of the public debates. It is not original because Serbia has passed the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, Serbia has ratified the Istanbul Convention, Serbia has taken many excellent steps in security, the security of the judicial system to combat violence of the elections, but we are told it should also be in the Law on Gender Equality and we have respected it. What does the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination need to be passed once adopted, changed as you say it should be better defined, and what should the Law on Gender Equality result in a change in individual, individual and society once adopted and when it comes into force? It takes both the first and the second to allow each of us to feel that he lives in a more just society. If I'm a Roma or a Roma woman that I know who I can address if someone thinks they can't hire me, insult me, put me in my place. If I'm a woman, I know I have the same rights. Half of the future is mine, half of it is mine because it's the only way to develop a common, and that's why the Law on Gender Equality is a law on both women and men. We're changing the gender role society defines. There was a dilemma and an amendment about what gender is and what gender is. Paul's a biological category. You can't choose that. Some two people love each other and make you at some star moment like a boy or a girl. You don't have any influence on that, but what kind of woman you should be, where you belong, what kind of man you should be, where you're in a place where society deals with ordinary, written, unwritten rules, but also legal regulations. We need to make legal regulations that take the best of the usual, of the written, of the unwritten rules, of the cultural rules, of religious beliefs because this law will live like this. The law prohibiting discrimination introduces several new institutes. We'll probably talk about them in detail when it comes to discussion in detail. I'm talking about segregation as an act that basically separates a group of people, whoever these people are, from meddling with them. You have cases of segregation in Serbia and should be discussed. I'm talking about a prelude to discrimination. You don't have to be inspired by the spontaneousness of your impatience to discriminate on someone. You can be responsible for the law even though you're leading someone to discrimination. I'm talking about the indirect discrimination that has been measured and where you have recorded cases of those who appeal to the Commissioners for Equality. The law forbids harassment, humiliating treatment, sexual harassment. We also have a ban on the discriminatory conduct of an official during, or a responsible person as a public authority, it's so-called. institutional discrimination, where unwritten rules are used by someone who thinks they have a crumb of power, or use it just to harass someone else. We have discrimination in the area of housing as a new institute. It is forbidden for you to choose whether to give someone an apartment because of impatience or a personal quality that you do not consider desirable in society. The Law on Gender Equality through all provisions, through all sectors, makes reference provisions for the construction of a system that we will truly guarantee and ensure an equal, equal and equal approach for both women and men to everything that is social resources, from budgets to participation in decision-making, political parties, to the public sector. So everywhere it's up to us to decide, we need to talk about why there's only men, there's no women or why there's only women, and there's no men. All that we have ahead of us is nature has arranged to be ours together, and therefore this law should as a result have an uninterrupted long dialogue between women and men on Serbia's development. Women are one of the sources for Serbia's development, and this law should allow them to really be able to decide and say which of their own futures. In the employment sectors, in the social policy sectors, in all sectors of our life, the Law on Gender Equality has reference provisions which either need to be amended by other laws or obliges everyone in institutions to build up or change work in order to really be equal. The text of this law before you is the least consequence of the work of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. It contains thousands and thousands of hours of work, thousands and thousands of people and women and men over a decade from the civil sector, above all, from the government, from opposition, from institutions, from civil society today, from civil society 25 years ago, from institutions like the Council of Europe or the EU, from the OSCE, from foundations that help Serbia develop human rights culture. So this is a joint effort that we have translated into words under the Law on the Plane System, into provisions that are before you, and this is the outcome of both of these laws, to respect the efforts and work of those who previously invested their knowledge in the fight against discrimination and in the fight for gender equality and to prepare Serbia for a better, fairer, more pleasant for those who come after us, this is the whole idea and I hope that your amendments and your debate will contribute to that idea in the finals get their best possible expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6590	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The president of the JS parliamentary group Dragan Markovic Palma spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6591	Dear Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister of the Province, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law that we have on the agenda today is carried out by the house and what is most important is that home education of people how to behave when it comes to gender equality, when it comes to discrimination, when it comes to domestic violence. This law has a broad sense of interpretation, but what is most important when it comes to violence, when it comes to the abuse of some power from the position of political or directoral to blackmail women or to women reporting domestic violence or some other kind of abuse where women find that our judiciary, the prosecution and the police should do so by emergency procedure. So these are very serious things in Serbia and we have cases where a trial takes place for years, especially when an act of material evidence is reported. I've been reported by a man who's been committing domestic violence, and he's reported me through his employee, Marinika Tepic, that in Jagodina all the women who need to hire have been blackmailed in the way that they get my cell phone to hang out with me, who gets a good job, who doesn't, doesn't get a job. These women sued that mercenary Dragan Djilas, and then falsely said that Mica Jovanovic was on my birthday where there were many girls, so it was offered to this, the one, etc., where Mica Jovanovic denied it later for reasons, not to repeat it, it was heard several times in the media and Serbian citizens know it very well, they are all lies. Then, a lie by Sanda Raskovic Ivić during the time of Serbian Ambassador to Italy where there was a group of delegations in Jagodina from Pescara, that among the members of the delegation was some, or not some, but rather an honorary consul of Serbia in Italy, Mr Veraldi, that he was offered not to choose some girl who played without underwear, and when he went to the room, a naked girl waited for him. Mr Veraldi denied it through our embassy and through the "Time" list that often attacks me, and denied that it is not true and that he asks those who do not include him in these dirty political games. Later, it was reported that a representative of Gilas's Jagodina party, her son, reported that the apartment had been robbed. There goes the police, the apartment hasn't been robbed, that guy says - no apartment has been robbed. Well, I know, but you reported it. Well, it's not an apartment that's been robbed, so that all the time it takes, not a message, but a text on social networks, they say, "Here's the way witnesses are intimidated." So that was a lie, too. The lie was also with that demented criminal, who they defiled and hid his face. Why? To say that he's just as afraid of these seven false witnesses who make up that they won't leave, to say what happened to them. When we took off the mask and found out who he was, he was a high-ranking official of the Gilas Party, but he was arrested six times and convicted once. I haven't challenged the credibility of this man, but it's a serious abuse, because he's brought forth a series of lies and nothing can justify it. The last lie was that Marinika Tepic, the most paid employee of the company Dragan Đilas, was in the prosecutor's office in the Kingdom, came out in front of the court lying and saying – see, the prosecutor told me that there was a possibility that this case could be transferred to Belgrade to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. This is published by all the media, two hours after that, the prosecutor says – not true, there were no words at all, because the process has not even begun. They say: 20 and some witnesses have been heard. You know who your witnesses are? These are the ones that were cited by these false witnesses of Marinika Tepic that there were, at that time, those people, those faces, so from waiters, porters, my guests who were, they go and make statements, they justify themselves for something that they don't even know what happened. It is a serious abuse and a blow to all the families in Serbia and that a man can lie like that, he and his mercenary just to get political points to run for president of Serbia tomorrow. Gilas, this domestic bully, you, Madam Minister, are asking you, Mrs Comic, to react why the authorities did not react from 2014 to 2019 when the wife of Dragan Gilas, Ivo Djilas, filed a criminal report that Dragan Gilas beat her father and her in front of underage children. That's three crimes, and that was in the drawer. So there's an application with a signer and with a victim, or victims, none of our bodies, none of our institutions, acted on official duty. For now, I almost heard, I told Dragan Gilas that she had denied it to his wife. It can't be denied, it can be settled, and for the sake of children, women had to, I don't know, say it one way or another, but it never goes out of date as genocide, when someone beats a woman and a father-in-law in front of underage children. So I'm asking you to take a little interest in this case and this case in particular. I appreciate you very much, because you're a family woman, I think you have three children or three daughters, and you're particularly interested in speeding up this process and these lies that keep talking about me. They say we have seven witnesses and they're afraid. Well, what do you mean, seven witnesses are afraid? I couldn't hear it anywhere in the world and see it, but it's an excuse, because you'll never get witnesses to show up because they don't exist. This criminal who now plants flowers, or carries flowers where Belgrade is arranged in certain streets, and there was mud, as he, behold, wants to make Belgrade more beautiful, made a statement in Belgrade, and I expected Marinika Tepic to say -- here's our protected witness said that, that and that. Shut up, don't say what he said. Well, did he say it was some girl's name, some kid's name, etc. So they all lied. How can we stand in the way of some, for me and for citizens living in Serbia, the family is a fundamental pillar and sacredness and the purpose of life. This is a blow to all the families. So she hit on my associate, director of the Social Services Center, how her phone was taken from the police and her daughter's naked phone, etc. In fact, it's not my associate's phone at all, it's another woman who allegedly said she had a picture of my co-worker's naked daughter, and she's gonna throw it on social media. At the same time, my associate Biserka Jakovljevic reported to the police, the police arrested that woman and took the woman's phone, not Biserka Jakovljevic's phone, according to this most paid fake Marinika Tepic, because everything she talks about is lying, that it's my associate's phone. So, they've lied to us so far, and we've put everything in paper. Here, you call them as ministers to tell you discreetly, I'm sure you won't tell anyone, what are those victims? They don't exist. I'm a family man, respected citizens of Serbia, I have three grandchildren, if someone had done what they're doing to me, my grandchildren, he wouldn't be in this world today. It's so miserable, so miserable and sad that it's some propaganda in the election campaign, that someone, by God, would be the protector of all women in Serbia, and this richest man, the politician in the world, because when he was walking around as a college student some year, in 1996, talking -- respected fellow students, we're going to tear down this power, when we come, we'll live better, etc. Where are these students now who supported him? They barely survive. Further, tours, came to Jagodina, came Gilas and what's called, which is why we have a big problem, Borko Stefanovic. Wait, what did you come to the police for? Are you lawyers, Judges, rather than get a political point here, like they're gonna be waiting for a group there. No one has ever waited for them, except for three people with police records and two women, they say – we're looking for a transfer from Jagodina. They went to the King's. In the King, a dozen of them, five of them with Belgrade plates. What are you going to do, Gilas to the King? Why did you go to the King? What are you? So, Serbian citizens need to know that it's a lie, like they've lied to so far, and even put a target on Alexander Vukic's son, Daniel's head, how, I don't know, he's taken some stand in some stadium, he's a fan leader, etc. Shame on you. They are pests for Serbia. We did not enter the EU because of that opposition. Because they created false images of Serbia, and then the European Parliament gives a negative report, media blocks say. What a block of media, all the media was open to them now while they lied about me. Not only that, but from where the chickens were carrying eggs, through other locations and ministers who attacked. So please, Mrs. Comic, Minister or Minister, get a little bit more interested and get into the paperwork, see how, who did it, why, why, why and why we're asking for the trial to speed up. To speed it up, not just for this case, for cases like that. No one can beat a woman in the 21st century today, blackmail a woman, make discrimination between women and men, they can't. The law must be different. It's not that. You stole my bike or you broke my furrow. This is a blow to the family, this is a blow to humanity, you understand, and that's how you want to get political points and profit. This Discrimination Act, you said it was very important to treat the persons damaged in development, to create conditions for all those persons, that they too have a job, although under our law it is envisaged that one number of people with disabilities in each company is employed on the basis of the number of employees, that there is no discrimination between young and old. For example, we in Jagodina for 14 years drove free students, students and pensioners. Then some institutions from Belgrade, the former citizens' protector who was for himself and was running for president of Serbia, said it was discrimination. Well, I say well, maybe we made some mistake and I make a decision that everyone rides free in Jagodina, and we pay from the city budget. Old people and our oldest population, our mothers, grandparents, have to be respected, not many to wait in line when they go to the hospital or for a checkup, to have a priority, because they came for a checkup because they're sick and it's much easier for those younger to wait than they are. I stayed to live in the country as a son of an only child, my father died when I was 23 years old, and I didn't want to leave my mother alone. Today we live 12 in one family. We all eat at the same table. No one can agree with the citizens of Serbia that I was doing something that those who are surrounded by criminals, and even those criminals are starting to threaten me now on social networks. Wait, you're gonna scare me? Come here, Gilas, threaten me. Let me see you, come on, you think all the money can be bought? And that all these criminals, who takes money from crime, has never spent it sweetly, ever. They end up in prison. It can't take long. Do you understand? Now that you're pretending that you're fighting for gender equality, for domestic violence, and in everything you've been involved, you've been the worst at all. I'm a man who can understand everything, and a political struggle, and that something is lying, but I can't accept such lies, and I'll never accept it. I beg the judicial authorities, they say - the defamation law has been abolished. Well, he says, you can't hurt him. Why didn't this Dragan Gilas billionaire file a criminal charges, why didn't his employee file a criminal charges? Because they know they're lying. For false criminal charges, he's going to jail. I went to the D.A.'s office myself, asked them to initiate the procedure to get to the truth as soon as possible, and the truth is on my side, and the lie is on theirs. And now some of the media are saying, behold, a hearing of twenty-one witnesses. Serbian citizens don't know, think they're witnesses that are damaged. These witnesses, even she said, sued this protected witness to Palm because he revealed his identity, took off his mask. So who gave him the status of a protected witness? Billionaire Dragan Djilas and his worker, Marinika Tepic. You know who gives the status of a protected witness. When in the process, this protected witness has some reliable information with material evidence and is aware of what works. I haven't heard anything you're talking about this case, but you have to ask that case to be speeded up for a job description and a function that you represent. I trust you very much, because I know you've always been righteous and that you want justice to win, not lies. If the lies and lies they made in the previous time period, that everyone around Vukic was buying, stealing the bars from Franz, and I don't know what they couldn't prove, that's what's left of it. They forget that someone has a pretty label, puts it on their backs and marks it as such, but, behold, it is protected by the institution, etc., as they are now saying - an institution, it needs a state or government to fall. Why should the government fall? First thing's a lie. The process hasn't even started yet. If any of the facts are true, I'm going to look after the goats. I'll take a picture with the goats next to Morava. I'll never do public business again. But it's not true. They lied to everyone. This is what my common sense should bear, to apply humanity and to say – well, most of these people, or most of them, have some medical beliefs, and that when it's brought out, it's a criminal complaint about which person. Please, the face that's from Jagodina sends you, as allegedly lies, has a medical record. So I ask you to see it a little bit, because it's not the same when someone who is talking, not to say what and someone who's been marked. I feel sorry for those people who have a mental problem, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but don't treat yourself for something that's not true and you think someone's going to believe you in that way. And now my Jagodinians who know and what I have for lunch and breakfast at home and know how I've accomplished everything in my life, me with economic development, for example. Of my Cončavs, and when they go to the polls, 90% comes out, 3% invalid ballots, 2% vote for some others, and 93% vote for me or 94% for me. You know what, they're scared, they're scared of the Jagodinians. So let their media house take the microphone. Are you afraid, are you afraid? What are they afraid of? Of what? When you enter that front, who sees you for whom you vote? Let's see what you're doing, people. The election's coming. What are deeds? Some of the pieces were delivered to other countries. If it's money earned by the law of this country, why did you take it to some other countries? If you paid taxes on that money, why don't you come out? He hasn't come out yet to say, on the question of MPs, colleagues from other parties, whether he has the money or not. The whole of Serbia listens and deals with a man who had torn jeans in 1996, when he was walking, and today he doesn't know what he has from capital. That they have other people's names, etc., so they think who knows how many more. Listen up. In that application, his wife said: “I will cut off your head, when he beat me and my father. ” These are the terms of this group that made the kewapes in that building. I'm asking both you and the D.A. to question... (President: Mr. Markovic... I apologize, I conclude, to examine whether he had contact with this group and what contacts he had and whether they worked for him. For it is, “I will cut off your head, ” that your children may listen to your wife, saying, ‘ You are indeed a mad man.’ Thank you. I want an answer from the Minister, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6592	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is made by Minister Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6593	You're right that I haven't spoken of your case in public, in any way, nor will I, because it's the rule of law. So, outside of my jurisdiction, as members of the government, is any procedure which is investigative, police, prosecution, anyway, and especially judicial. The Ethics Code of the Government of the Republic of Serbia prohibits all members of the government from publicly commenting on judicial, investigative and police proceedings, and that's good, and I stick to it. So, even in cases where the verdicts were passed, I have no intention of violating the Ethics Code and commenting on the verdicts. It is the foundation of the independence of the judiciary; it is the reading of what you are responsible for and the application of what you are responsible for, and that is the only way for us all to understand together what we are laughing about and what we are not allowed to do. If we consider that one of the provisions which obliges the members of the Government or members of the Government is not good, then it is up to the Government to change it, if it is an act of its jurisdiction, or it is up to you to change, let's say, the Law on Public Information and Electronic Media, where Article 8 clearly states what must, and what must not be elected, appointed and appointed, when it comes to criticism publicly on his or her account. He's got to put up with the silences. You know, he can't do both. We can't even say that we stand for the rule of law and allow ourselves not to be able to endure it, so breaking the rule of law is good when we do it. It's never good. But I'm grateful for another part of your exposure to the elderly. In this same assembly, the Commissioner for Equality presented a survey the other day, a special report on discrimination against older citizens. This is a research that I strongly recommend from my jurisdiction to everyone in the National Assembly for detailed reading, because it is about people of our society and their answers that you cannot find anywhere else, except in this report on discrimination against older citizens. One of the parts and the Law on Discrimination implies a ban on discrimination based on the age of older people, and I also think of the Trustees of Equality whose institution, together with UNFP, prepared this report and it is my personal opinion that the National Assembly will take a leadership position in how to crown, reduce existing discrimination against older people. At the presentation of the report, I shared my personal experience when three years ago, I met my friend, a good friend from childhood, and he and I are the "baby bungalow" generation, so in years when most of us no longer have parents, unfortunately. And I knew that his mother was alive and I asked how your mom was, he says, she's at home. I'm saying, I'm not asking you where your mom is, I'm asking you how she is. He says-- there he is. It's an experience for me that has asked me to look for research on how older people live, so I get the data that there are 560,000 widows in Serbia, over 65 years, that there are 170 thousand widows, that these people live alone and that, besides health care, they need basic incomes, that they need humanity, that they need conversations, that they need all of us who are going to be in these places, as the National Assembly says, we see you. These are the recommendations of the Equality Commissioner from this report. I am truly grateful that you mentioned discrimination against older citizens because of the dialogue on amendments and additions to this law, I think a good reason that and the situation of things when older citizens are in Serbia, we are changing for the better. No one can do that except the National Assembly, which will give us assignments in the government how, should we bring strategy to the elderly, should we discuss the changed institutes at the local level? What should we do to make people feel better even though they live alone, even though they are at a late age? Because aging should be a privilege and enjoy the years ahead of them and who are now for their lives. So, that's my answer. I know you don't like the first part of the answer, but we're not here to like anyone, we're here to consistently apply the rule of law and do what it says. As soon as someone settles and changes, here I am with all possible remarks and your case, and other cases in Serbia, and as far as we both know, you know that I am very imaginative here, but above that my obligation is to the ethical code and jurisdiction of the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6594	Thank you. Replica, Dragan Markovic Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6595	Thank you for your answer. Just to tell you, Madam Minister, the trial doesn't exist. And I filed criminal charges against the liars, against them, not against me. And they wanted it to stand in the air and hang and fear witnesses allegedly and never go to the D.A.'s office and the police. That's one thing. Secondly, there's a criminal report for Dragan Gilas, and I want that answer, where his wife gave the police in 2014, that he beat his father-in-law and Mrs. Ivo Gilas in front of underage children, inflicted physical injuries on his father-in-law, where he had medical confidence and threatened his wife to cut off her head. Why? Here, I ask you, there is a report, will you do something on the basis of this application that stood for so long, and have not under official duty conducted the process of the institution of that time and today against Dragan Gilas? There is a report signed by the hand by Eve Gilas and that application exists. Against me, she just lied and said -- she said to give me back what I asked Gilas, is it true that you made so much money, if it's fair that you took it to other countries and did you pay taxes to the state of Serbia? Right away from tomorrow, that fake dirty attack was on me. Please answer me regarding the application of the wife of Dragan Gilas, Ivo Gilas, will you do something or see why the violent bully in the family of Dragan Gilas has not been prosecuted?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6596	Minister Gordana Komic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6597	Thank you. Our misunderstanding is banal, but deep. So, consistently and to the last letter and my responsibilities, I will apply my responsibilities, as you do as a MP. The good news for you is that I am a member of the government, not the chairman of the Assembly. That's good news. So, with the obligation to answer every question, I'm always at your disposal. With an offer to overstep my responsibilities, as members of the government, I don't stand at anyone's disposal or ever will. The fact that the rule of law is something that I deeply believe in, as I deeply believe, if everyone in Serbia reads what is responsible, and repeats it, convinces it in their own words, and then consistently does what is responsible, Serbia would be a much more pleasant place for many of us to live. That's what we're going to do together and the laws that are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6598	Thank you. Replica, MP Dragan D. Markovic Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6599	If you'll excuse me, for this false case, you knew and heard about me. Did you know about the actual case of Eve Gilas reporting, that Gilas beat her and her father in front of underage children with bodily injuries and a threat-- I'm going to cut your head off. Just tell me if you knew or didn't, I'm not mad at you. As a resolute minister, you have the right to say what you want, it's mine to assess what I think is, not that I'm right, but that those other people who lie all the time have no proof.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6601	If you think he'll hate me to repeat it, then you misjudge, there is no way that I can move from the authority given to me as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have no jurisdiction over the affairs of government members who run other ministries or would ever participate in, how can I tell you, an examination of other members of the government about what they're doing. Being a member of the Government means that you have a personal responsibility and that you feel that you have the integrity to do the work in the plan that you have offered as a member of the Parliament, and the Assembly has approved. Everything else is at the will of the MPs and I am available to you to be angry with me, I am available to you to ask that I no longer serve as a member of the Government. I am at your disposal not because I like you or don't like you and not because I choose you but because it is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the Law on the National Assembly and in the Law on Government. So I owe you answers. I answer you with an explanation that none of my answers will ever be such that they will harm what the regulations say is my jurisdiction, which regulations say what I can and can't do. Once the public affairs are completed, then we can do whatever we want, because we are not in public functions and are not bound by codes or laws or regulations that define the work of the Government and the work of the Assembly. I'll do it again as many times as you'll be bored. I don't doubt that you're bored already, but there's nothing anyone in the National Assembly, anyone in the media, anyone in any political party, anyone in any institution can say and that I don't resist, that I feel if my word were contrary to what it describes as a commitment as a member of the government, it never exists, never exists and never will. Churchill said – in politics you should be able to keep quiet, then you have a chance to last. You know, silence is a different name for rule of law. I wish a lot of people knew how good it would be for Serbia, but I'm not in a position to give anyone unsolicited advice. So, you can ask me again, I'll answer the same, as long as you don't kick me out of this room because I'm bored with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6602	The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6603	You heard today, but that answer to me like this... You in the centre of Novi Sad, a stranger comes in, enters Serbia for the first time, enters Novi Sad and says – sorry, is this Novi Sad? You say -- you know what, it's not my region. We have to ask Igor. Since he's not here right now, my region isn't and I don't want to get involved in his region. Thank you very much for your answer. I understand everything my grandmother would say - like the sun that is artificially above this roof. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6604	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6605	Feel free to ask Igor. Igor knows.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6606	Thank you. We continue, but before that, colleagues who feel that I am violating the Rules of Procedure by giving the right to a replica of the People's Parliament or ministers to use the Rules of Procedure and to point out that. We're moving on. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6607	The Honorable Chairman. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that today we have a united debate on four very important laws, so it is difficult for each of these laws to get as much as it deserves in our discussion. But since we have nothing disputed, just in our views, on the law on secondary education and education, as well as the Law on Sremski Karlovci, which we will unconditionally support, I will certainly give priority to my discussion of the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. In fact, these are two very important laws, which is clearly evident from the very names, namely the concepts of which these laws are marked in titles, and that is why this is an opportunity to deal with this matter a little deeper. A society that manages to counter discrimination, which manages to through either the aspect of legislation and the application of the law, or through the aspect of a whole culture to combat discrimination, is an advanced society, a society that deserves all praise. Likewise, when it comes to equality, one of the liquids that cannot possibly be disputed, and that is why I would like to make it very clear in this discussion, and hopefully also in the discussion of other MPs, we should make our views very clear both on the details and on the whole. So, it's a delicate matter, a matter that can't be declared black and white, it's impossible to say – I'm not completely, nor – I'm not completely, because "I'm not for this" means I'm not for values that fall into universals, which cannot be argued at all, but what makes us more careful in the analysis of these laws, or new proposed solutions on these two laws, is the fact that if we have one law and proposals related to that law that are very high-quality proposals and that have both good and positive intensity and that have good formulations and good solutions, and on the other hand, these laws are missing something that is not good or that is bad in the future we're going to have a major observation of these laws in terms of what is bad, even if it was a little. That's why we're going to overshadow everything that's good in those laws. Therefore, I support the attention given and from the position of the ministry. I would like to point out that I have no doubt that Minister Comic and her associates have made significant efforts, and I will not even in any way question the intention. I know that there is also a good intention and an extremely great effort to look for the best solutions, especially all of what we've heard, to say, from chronology or history of trying to pass these laws actually confirms all of this, but all of this also indicates that it's a very slippery ground that we can't again and after all and after all the hard work and after all the good intentions we agree to say – now it's over, it's all great. Yeah, a lot of things are great. Yes, I would like to confirm here the determination of the People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party in the uncompromising struggle when it comes to discrimination, when it comes to violence, violence against women, violence against other endangered categories. So there can't be any controversy, but what we don't want to accept is to deny us the possibility of a critical attitude towards those parts or those details that we don't think are good, that they're bad or that we think they can do much better. We also heard in the opening statements, but also from the cost of representatives of individual committees and the formulation of directives, a directive from Brussels, although it is rather harsh, but it says there it is a directive. Some directive, but the content of this directive is, I paraphrasise – ensuring equal opportunities. So that's the principle we'll all agree on. When we talk about the right and concept of equality, I fully agree that what should be our desire in the end and some legal framework with which we will protect it is a question of equal opportunities, and that is the right, that is, the law's intensity in general and should be the intensity of the law, and that should be the intensity of the very concept and the very principle of equality. However, what is a matter for us Members of the People's Party of Justice and Reconciliation is a question of the limit between equality and equality where the limit between equal opportunities and boundaries between imposing a particular form is, above all, legal and legal, but with very clear implications on other spheres of our life, both culturally and ethically and each other. So that's what's controversial for me and that's what we had to pay a little more attention to, although as we heard through public debates and a number of other aspects of activity devoted to attention, however, it's a question that is questionable, which is delicate, to whom we have to approach with more aspects. So these two laws, I'm rebuilding and undermining myself, with very good solutions, but they have certain delicateities that are controversial for us. We've heard reasons, and I'm sorry that I'm not happy until the end, the difference between sex and birth. So I liked that there was a more thorough explanation, especially about the definition of gender. We have a gender-to-generation game here, and especially when we take into account the constitutional category, I don't know how the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee just went over it, because in the Constitution we don't have a category of gender and gender equality, in the Constitution we have a category of gender equality. All right, if we agree that we need to potentiate the issue of gender equality, then let's change the Constitution, let's also provide the basis here, and if the question is how and if we're going to agree on it, so the question of gender and birth identity, you know, especially from the address from Brussels where it comes from, you know how delicate that question is and how much that question is not solved there. We've already had the number of birth identities in that theory over a hundred, so we've already counted over a hundred birth identities. Now, in addition to whether it's ethical, ideological, culturally acceptable for us, but let's look at some technical and practical aspect of the law now that we're dealing with both discrimination and gender equality. What happens if this law is passed in this form? What happens to reflections, let's say, certain legal provisions that are discriminatory or can be interpreted that way, if we in our discourse here tomorrow, politically, any other, don't list all 100 birth identities, but we use some formulations, so we just mention some birth identities and then we say all birth identities? So, we ourselves will, in fact, be determined on gender discrimination will have an implications for us as well. So we enter a field that is scientifically controversial. There's a scientific theory, but only theory, even hypothesis, but here, to recognize it as a theory of birth identities, but it's not an axioma, it's not scientific truth. She's not something that can be accepted and imposed by law. So it's not sustainable or scientific, it's not sustainable or legal. So these are the things that make us just stop, to stop at birth, that we can't, first of all, because of the dispute, or the lack of foundation in the Constitution. So we don't have an equal birth in the Constitution, we have gender equality, and now so baseless, without reason, we move on to gender equality, and we're already using it as one established or completely normal category. So I have no problem in supporting all my capacities gender equality, gender equality in terms of equal opportunities. So we're completely clean, but the question of gender equality in the confusion of the definition of birth identities is a big problem, believe me. We are entering something that is both ethically and culturally and legally and logically controversial and problematic. Second, each society proves its quality of relations, its ethical quality, in relation to the weak. So to offer additional protection measures, you treat someone weaker. You have children, you have old ones, we have people with special needs, etc. So it's totally undeniable, but what's the issue? It's slow, and I know for a fact that I'm going to be attacked for this, are women weaker sex? If you say they are, we have a problem, we're already breaking the Discrimination Act, and if they're not, why are we offering them extra protection? So it's a problem that's not just rhetorical nature, it's a problem of essential nature, because additional protection is only offered to those who are weaker. Those who are not weaker are offered general protection, as is offered to all citizens of this country, which already exists in certain laws, etc. So I'm simply opening up what are conflicting issues that we can't just go through on the surface, but that we here as MPs have to face and eventually agree to or throw it all away. Secondly, the question of equality -- yes, on equal chances, but it's about imposing, imposing, let's say, when it comes to employment? I agree completely, if we find that it is a weaker sex, it is threatened, let's do an affirmative action, we supported then, you know, alone, undeniable and 40% in the Assembly, we have no problem with that, but we have a problem with those topics or fields where some other standards that are not just legal nature, which are not just symbolic-ethical nature, which are not just a matter of protection, such as the economy sector. So, you're imposing in the economy sector, say, the employment obligation with certain figures, and that's the other way around, so what about the question, like, tough jobs? What about equality, say, in mines, in agriculture, where it works by effect, where people are paid by effect -- so many shovels, so many carts, so much, I don't know what, cars, this one, that one? So we're going into one problem -- unspeakable. It's a question we have to deal with more thoroughly. Secondly, the question of entering into the education aspect, in particular the formulation of the formation of consciousness, the promotion of consciousness, etc. Still, it all smells like an ideologie that's not good. I understand that what we get from Brussels is not the basis of the EU. In the foundations of an active EU, this did not exist, this was subsequently forced in Brussels under the influence of extreme ideological factors fighting for this ideology. It's a matter of ideology. I don't dispute their right to ideology, but, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the Union is to meet differently. The European Union is conceived as a meeting or a community of different nations, peoples and states. I even understand that we are more comfortable on business issues, economic issues, organisational-administrative, etc. But these questions that go into the depths of our identity, human, collective, religious, cultural, ethical, well, believe me, if we just accept it because it came from Brussels, by the directive, even though I understood the directive differently, because, I don't know, we're suggested politically in one way or another, believe me, I don't know what we'll do afterwards? I'm sorry, then what's the union for? It's not a union, it's a monolithic community. Spain, a serious EU member country, has threatened to exit the EU if it is banned from the corridors as part of their tradition of sports, etc., to be picturesque. So they threaten to protect the ox, the bulls. Wait, and what are we ready to do to protect the end of the family, please? Yes, family. Yes, our ethical and spiritual values, our Balkan, Muslim, Christian and other values. So what's my intensity here is to separate the grain from the weeds, that what's wrong and what's wrong with these proposed legal solutions, we put away and fix it, that's a lot of what's right, which is the goal of protecting against discrimination, in terms of real equality, equal opportunities, especially protection from violence, so that it has its true glow. So, no matter how many times we've had the reserve, let's have another not with the goal of rejecting it, but with the goal of fixing it, with the goal of fixing it. Please don't. I understand, you MPs, we all have parties, we have our bosses, MPs' clubs, we have directives and so on, but when it comes to some other, let's say, a bunch of questions that don't get in the way of this much human ethics, culture, in a sense, in everything that we are, let's just say, no problem how we vote, let's go, let's vote, and this is now used, came from the EU, came from some top, came from somewhere, proposed by the government. It's okay, but if we don't learn here that we can say no to the government, I'm sorry, why are we the National Assembly? Then let's get the law and the constitution that the government is adopting laws if we have to accept everything from the government. This is a huge question. These are too deep questions. Know, in the future, it will not be in history that you were ordered by the EU or by the party, but rather that you MPs voted. That's why when you press the key and raise your hands, you're responsible. This is all the kitchen in preparation. We're the ones who verify. Tomorrow, when things start to apply, so when you see how it reflects on your family, which cheek you face in front of your daughter or son, with which this, with which no one will tell you forced the Union or party, but will tell you – no, gentlemen, you were free Members of the people, citizens to vote or not to vote. So please keep that in mind. There's still a lot of objections that I won't have enough time for, but let's just say the question, I called it "black books," writing down, writing down someone who's made a statement to someone who's made a verbal mistake, a verbal delinquent, and then there's a book, which I called a black book, that you'll be enrolled in without ever being written. You'll be standing there in your file that you, I don't know, once said some formulation that is controversial about the issues treated by this law, and then also enlargement in the area of the Trustee of Equality. We also supported the existence of the Commissioner and his work and everything else, but giving certain judicial powers to the Commissioner is very problematic. Where's the court? Where are the D.A.'s office? If someone is going to punish us, we, anyone, citizens, so, just as the Commissioner does in this case, and then the issue of complaints, lawsuits or complaints, giving us the opportunity to be a certain NGO, so that they will be the ones who are going to sue for any discrimination or disrespect of gender equality, etc., without suing whoever feels named is also a new programme, we are introducing some kind of doctrinal inspection that will, according to their judgment, target such people, sue, etc. These are things that are very sensitive and very deep, and that's why we'd have to come closer to it much more thoroughly. In view of all these remarks, like many others, which I have not been able to present here, but I do not think that we will succeed, although I have seen that we have a solid number of amendments, we will not be able to fix these laws with these amendments, but I suggest that these laws are not passed, that we return them to the government, that we make new solutions, and that, as long as we lose, we, the light and pure cheeks, the MPs, raise our hands, vote for these laws, and do not be ashamed tomorrow of what we did. If we don't, I think we'll accept something just because we're being asked to, because we can't refuse it anymore. This is too important for them to accept it that way and thus vote these laws. I have confidence, or maybe hope, if not trust so much and belief, but hope that we here have enough of the people's self-conceived MPs, but I don't think there's this determination at the top of the biggest ruling party that at all costs and over the knees these laws are being adopted, but that there's a belief that we have to take steps both in terms of discrimination and in terms of gender equality and in terms of protecting weaker categories of violence, it's undeniable and I don't think we have any dilemma here, but that, too, we need to clean this up from something that can be a virus that has implications for us further. Therefore, the Law on Gender Equality is a foundation, a fundamental act, an ideological basis for the adoption of laws on the same-sex communities. And it's actually too early to make noises, if I can say so, about that law, to tell me now -- well, this one's been delayed, now we're going to adopt this one. Please, it's the same package. It is therefore necessary to clean the laws of old ideology, of ideologies that are not our spirituality, of our ethics and of our culture. So I invite you to really, by your conscience, by our ontological essence, that humanity, here's the humanity that we're going to agree on, but in this case we use it in different ways, we act and actually responsibly reject these laws this time, to fix them, to work them out, and then, in full mood and persuasion, we adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6608	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6609	Thank you. It is your will and your decision to remove the draft law from the agenda, only you need 126 in the hall and 60 and a few, it is your will and to agree within the coalition that the government withdraws the law, it is your will and that, individually, as each MP, you do not vote or vote the law. So I'm not the address for what your idea of the law is, it's you. I am at your disposal in each of these cases, as I am at your disposal and now, when the Government sent the bill to the Assembly and on working equality and changes and additions to the Law on Discrimination, and you accepted to be on the agenda. So that would be my first comment on your exposure, mixing procedures and content, procedure and topic. It's never good to mix, especially with people who know the difference. So, I am in the process of what will happen to the law or may interfere, nor will I, that is your will, as it says in the Constitution, so says the Law on the National Assembly, so it says in the Law on Government and to me more important than anything else – that is something I deeply believe in, that I am subject to your will to vote for some laws or not. The procedure is culture and it's on the side of the National Assembly. About the content and your observations about what's confusing, what's dangerous, what's ideology, I suspect which of the ideologies you mean, but I'm not sure, and I'm pretty sure you're not a man who doesn't have the courage to say the word "feminism," because you're a brave and wise man. So it's not that. Then there's another ideology, but whatever ideology it is, it's your right to believe that all the provisions of the law go under the auspices of an ideology. If you mean human rights, then you're right. Both laws are laws of human rights culture. In one case, women's rights, at first, are now entitled to equality between women and men, in another case to the human rights of all those with some of the personal properties that were targeted at anyone in society to demean them, insult them, humiliate them, torture them, treat them like they're not human beings. So it is the ideology of human rights. If you think Serbia should give up on a culture of human rights, you and I will not agree very much. Because I think Serbia is naturally inclined to protect human rights, freedoms and democracy as a system that guarantees human rights to everyone. What is gender and what is gender and what is gender equality and what is gender equality? If I really wanted to be honest with you about what gender equality is, I would have to use the language and expressions that are forbidden to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so I can't do that. But half is a biological category. Paul's a personal trait. You don't choose sex, you're given sex as "ix x" or "ix ipsion", by the case of how Mother Nature regulates the natural gender quota on the planet Earth at approximately 50:50 percent, with little advantage over those babies that are born, who are female and who are girls. Paul is something that can be the basis for discrimination, because personal property, such as skin color, such as any physical, personal property, visible or invisible to others in society, such as ethnicity, such as religious or religiousness, such as sexual orientation, so, like any of our personal qualities that we have not by our own merit, but by chance being born just as such a human being, with some personal properties. When anyone in society uses your personal property to harm you, to discriminate against you, to demean you, then it's a process called discrimination. Discrimination is neither imminent nor inevitable. Discrimination is society's decision. Our society also decides on another social category – gender. A social category where society says what is desirable for a woman as a role, it is a gender role, what is desirable for a man as a role, the gender role of a man in a society that he says - so we like to play the role of women and men. Since society has decided to play a role, society can decide otherwise. I'll give you examples available to everyone. I am the "baby boom" generation, I belong to the first generation of women ever born on the planet Earth who was only born and had the right -- the right to go to school, the right to have property, the right to get married, the right not to marry, the right to dress as I want, the right to travel alone, the right to have a bank account, the right to start a company, the right to have real estate, the right to inherit, the right to live as I want. I'm the first generation of women who's just been born. I didn't deserve that right. Otherwise, it's important that I add that human rights are not deserved. They have and there are institutions that are obliged to care about the application and protection of human rights. You can't deserve human rights. No one can provide you with anything but being born human. So, my generation, baby boomers, is the first generation of women who were born and had the right to be considered a human being. My grandmother, only 67 years older than me, had none of those rights. If you knew my grandmother, you'd know that she didn't miss it very much in her life, but it's personal integrity, because it's the woman I learned everything about feminism or told me – don't give it to yourself, it's falling apart. She couldn't go to school, she couldn't choose who she was going to marry. True, my grandmother chose, they wanted for one, she said no, and so they lived happily for 70 and a few years. She couldn't have the property, she couldn't travel alone, she couldn't do anything without someone's permission. It's a stork. Society said my grandmother's life was good, and my grandmother said it's not good for me. Her contemporaries from the beginning of the 20th century were also meant to have none of the rights, which are gender, society said - women are stupid to vote. Where can women vote from? Then they say, "Look, they appear, and protest, and they will have the right to vote." Hang on! And that's how you explain what feminism is. The women said, "We want to work eight hours of work, eight hours of sleep, eight hours of free time," and they said, "Arrest, kill." It's a stork. The company is agreeing on what role some social groups or one sex will play, which is half the society. Women have been patiently working for decades to change the content of their offspring. You have one ideology, one terrible ideology, one terrifying ideology of evil that she said about women, "kinder khe kirche", a woman's place in church, in kitchen, and with child, and that was the ideology that women treated, as territories, as objects, as objects. It was a gender, or social role for a woman in the worst of all the dark ideologies that people have come up with. We say - Serbia is a society that wants to ask both women and men what roles you want, what are the roles that are good for you. He can't do it without dialogue. Is the birth identity in any relationship with any provision of the law? No, but in one right you need a birth certificate because you have it in your life. You have people whose personality is a sex that they can't put into identity. How many are there? Two, three, I know Helena for example, I know some other people. Is that what we need to talk about in the congregation? I think you should. It will be up to you to decide whether to follow one such bill or not. In the end, Europe forced us to be human. As a message, it's something I personally disagree with. I don't even agree that it's really legitimate to tell the public in Serbia -- it makes you Europe human, because I don't believe it. Our culture teaches us to be people, religions to which we belong teach us that God is love. The differences seen in Serbia, seven traditional religions, teach us from a child how to be human. What are rules on gender equality and the rules on banning discrimination are not rules on how to teach you how to teach us how to be human. These are regulations to prevent behavior when we choose not to be human, and for that you need law, one or another. What amendments and provisions will you put in place? We have indeed been open and we have already accepted a number of amendments that various MPs have submitted and we will accept any other content that does not really deny human rights, understands that gender is defined by the decisions of society and is not afraid of freedom, neither of women nor of men. If there is something to defend women's right to have the right to treat them as human beings, then I think Serbia is a great place to do so and that in the future we will all have, without any delay, a sacred face on the promotion and on the contribution of human rights. These two laws are not in any indirect, direct relationship with the draft law on the same-sex communities, nor is the law on the same-sex communities on the AKI list, or on the obligation to harmonise legislation with the EU. The law on gender equality is, as is the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. More importantly, there will be a future strategy on the ban on discrimination, but the law on equal communities is not. It is a theme, here we return again, by chance today, 20 years of the Council of Europe Office in Serbia, the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights decision in the Olara ruling against Italy which has said – every country in line with its social narrative and legislation should regulate the way of life of people whose personal property is that those who want to live in the same sex community. What binds the draft law on the same-sex community, which is in the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and awaits the opinion of the Council of Europe expert, as we have welcomed the opinion of experts on the laws that are before you, what binds the law and these two draft laws is the fight against violence. It's the only ideology that belongs to all three laws. We crown violence against people. We crown violence in society. I do not think that there is a more noble goal for a single assembly of the Assembly and for the government of the Republic of Serbia which is firmly defined for the coronation of violence and for the rule of law and for everything that involves building a democratic society.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6610	Thank you. The word has Muamer Zukorlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6611	I don't know how you realized I was giving you a request to withdraw some procedural procedures. So, three times I've invited MPs not to vote for the laws, but to return them, after the vote, to do so, and that's what my position is. Of course, it's possible to ask the government to withdraw. So, procedurally, it doesn't matter that much to me. When it comes to your question of ideology, I don't mean feminism, although I don't have sympathy for feminism. On the contrary, feminism has potentiated a woman, whatever. What do we now have in some apparition just like that, what ideologies? To be a very direct, ultramaterial godless ideology, which has its own spectrum of reflections. What concerns me is this very confusion over the definition of gender and all this spectrum of hundreds of different gender identities. What actually eliminates the meaning of a man and woman as a sex and birth category, that's what's worrying to me and what I see here in various ways, through a few reflections, to be seen here. Mentioning the dark ideologies that have defined a woman like this as something is pointless in this case. On the contrary, every extreme ideology feeds on other extreme ideology. If we allow here to change our ethical, spiritual patterns through one or another law, we actually give the other side of extreme ideologies to strengthen and use it even more. What's my intensity and there's no space, and that's what I said in my speech, that in any way my speech or all of what I'm saying here is about revitalization, the question of discrimination and the question of relations to violence. It's undeniable and it's not the place to argue. And that's why I repeat, of course there are disputed patterns of sensitivity. What about the ones who won't? What about the ladies? I know a lot of ladies who say – I don't want to be a "driver", I don't want to be a "writer", I don't want this, because "writer" isn't a writer, it's something else. So, what do we do with all of them? Let's just have one width in this consideration and don't impose this now—e, which you're not for this, you're against it, you're for violence, you're for discrimination. We don't need that form in the discourse.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6612	Replica, Gordana Komic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6613	Ultramaterial godless, I suppose, can only be Communism. (Muamer Zukorlic: Uncommunism can also be found.) So can neomarkism. What? Neocommunism, neomarkism. Okay. Which would mean that you believe that the European Union is neo-communism and neo-markism, because this is like coming from the European Union. You have the same school that thinks the European Union is neoliberalism and neocapitalism and a steaming machine. I am very grateful that you bring in your knowledge and breadth, all necessary for a real broad dialogue on all of this in Serbia. That's necessary, absolutely necessary. I can only repeat that if there's anything that's ideology at all, then it's the only concept of human rights, and that should be, as I say, the motive that we all work together to build and culture of human rights. What will happen to women who do not want to use the grammar of the Serbian language in composing, number, gender, and drop out nouns marked by interest - they will have a choice. How can I tell you, right to the choice. So, we say that a woman with her job has the right to use a Serbian language and a noun that describes her profession in gender, number and fall to change. And I'll share an anecdote with you. Long ago, while Vojislav Kostunica was Prime Minister, Aleksandar Popovic was an extraordinary minister of science and environmental protection. As an opposition MP, I have led the point of amendments and additions to the Law on the system of environmental protection. I received a report from the National Assembly, where 76 times it said "that the MP Gordana Komic had submitted", and some amendment, so to speak. I spoke to the minister, I repeat, he was able to be a minister, I addressed the minister with the words, "If MP Gordana Comic submitted the amendment, then Mr Kostunica refused the amendment, and Minister Popovic did not accept the amendment." They say, “It can’t do that. ” Why can't he? If I can “suffer, ” then you too can“ not accept. ” It was a good atmosphere in the congregation, which is why I share it with you. She won't be called a "writer"? He doesn't have to. This law makes room for those who want to be called "writers". I'm a national MP, I'm a woman, I'm a politician, I'm a mother, I know who I am, I know what I am, and I know I lie to myself by birth, number and fall. I have no intention of giving up whether you reject this law or not. It's a message to everyone who likes to use a sensitive language called that, just because it doesn't know Serbian, because the Serbian language says my profession is changing by gender, number and falling. I owe you one last answer. What about jobs where there are no women? There will be. Until 70 years ago, 80, now perhaps 100, Ksenija Atanasijević became the first female Belgrade University doctor in 1926, I think. There were no women who were docents. There are now, fortunately. There were no women driving planes, and now they're lucky. There were no women in space, there were cosmonauts, astronauts. There were no women in the mining industry, or engineers, now there are. You have interviews with women who are mining engineers. There were no president's wives, now there are. Only 80 or 70 years. Is there a woman they think – no matter what she, Chomićka, talks about, shame is, a woman has to listen, be good, and earn it when they beat her. Of course there are, both women and men. What's the message of this law is that we want a dialogue with them. Why do you choose violence? Why do you choose hate? The hate speech isn't freedom of speech, it's forbidden. These are the essential provisions of these laws, and I repeat my gratitude, because you have introduced really provisions and images that have not occurred to us, which is to be observed in the context of belief, not only by accepting the category of human rights, but by discussing ideologies, calling this neo-communism or neo-markism. It is easy to prove that it is not, since neo-communism and neo-markism at their core have the right to choose people. These two draft laws in their core have the creation of space for people to have the right to choose. Our choices make us the same as we do, as legislators and governments, the task of allowing people to have the right to choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6614	Thank you. Right on the line of Muamer Zukorlic. With your exposure, I'll close the circle of replicas and move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6615	So the West has produced both communism and Marxism, and I wouldn't be surprised to see the neo-marksism coming. So we have no reason to be so sensitive. So, as far as human rights ideology is concerned, I have no problem with human rights either, even if they were ideology, I really have no problem, as I have no problem with the right to choose and my reactions have been significantly against the pattern of imposition. It's not a problem that someone wants us to address him with a gender-sensitive language, I don't have any problem with it, but the problem is when we're forced into obligation, then you ask that in scientific work, which is funded by the government, the one who doesn't respect the so-called. ‘Non-Sensitivity language’ shall be punished and its work shall not be recognised or lost. It's not a right to choose, it's an imposition, and there you're actually making one demagogue confusion with a constant response to everything that disagrees with your attitudes, hatred, violence. Please don't, don't. We're in hate and violence on the same side. Don't. This is about details that have their own spiritual, ethical diversity and that's all we're talking about. We respect everyone and the right to choose is what I stand for, but here we impose a pattern with certain sanctions on those who don't respect it, or they don't want it. That's where we have different access. Not about hate, not about violence, not about other relationships. Of course, the question of language nature is what we disagree on. All attempts through human history, artificial language upgrades, as well as artificial language production, where is Esperanto today? All artificial language upgrades have failed, remember, they're going to fail this one. Here's the problem when there's something artificial you want to upgrade. The language develops naturally. What has a spirit of language will surely survive. Everything else will fall off. That's what we're reacting to here.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6616	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic. The word has an authorised representative of SDPS, Dr. Muamer Bačevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6617	Dear colleagues and colleagues, let us return to the specific letters of these two very important laws that are before us today. I'm glad the minister, I can say, is quite extensive, but what our people say on Wednesday, she hit and said all that, most of the things I would say. The evolution of human rights has its course and doesn't end here today or here, so it's a matter of terms. A fine minister said that at the end of the 19th century or early 20th century, if you told someone that women were free to vote, it would be totally unacceptable for them. It was a man thing. Men could and could have had that freedom, but as one colleague said, if they went back a little in the antiquity, they would see that neither men were equal among themselves. Some were slaves, some were slave owners and investment, innovation, monitoring of modernity, and all in order to raise the level of equality between anyone, and especially gender is something that is a normal natural flow and something that is commendable. I haven't heard one particular thing that would convince me not to vote for these two laws, nor have I seen any amendments that, behold, previous speakers have made to have some regrets and that they want to have a better letter of this law, I haven't seen those amendments, and we know that this is the way to fix this law. In any case, I would like to say that since 2009, this, I say, has been our legislative struggle, and I can't help reminding myself that during Minister Rasim Ljajic, while he was Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the first law was passed, since you brought us back a little to Vojvodina, we must say that we, indeed as Social Democrats, are committed to gender equality, but also equality between all other people. I think we're harsh against any kind of discrimination and that if you want to read these laws seriously, you'll understand. His own title speaks enough and describes their content. Anyway, this is a place where we oppose our opinions and myself personally, if anyone can convince me until the end of this debate, I'm willing to change my mind. Serbia today has a legislative framework in the fight against discrimination, gender equality that is substantially in line with international standards, and I do not really experience suggestions and, let me say, the advice of our European partners as a condition. However, gender-based discrimination, as well as discrimination on other grounds, is still present, I said so before and it is therefore very important to approach further improvement of regulations and to raise the principles of gender equality and equality to a higher level. The law on gender equality needs to provide an environment in which they are respected, above all, divergence. Respecting all the specificities of the different gender roles of men and women, it is clear that women and men are different, but they must not be uneven. Our goal is to build a society in which all our citizens, regardless of gender, will have equal chances of education and employment, respecting their labour rights, and in particular to have equal income and to work the same value, to be active participants in political and trade union life, to participate in governance bodies, to have the same position in the fields of sport, culture, access to services, etc. That's what these laws are talking about today. Absolutely nothing else. Today we have enough statistical data to explore that we cannot help but see that men and women do not have the same opportunities and that women in different areas are still in an unequal position. However, this law does not aim solely to improve women's position. Respect for the principle of gender equality contributes to a better quality of life and prosperity for all both women and men. You weren't present before, I said one thing actually, and as a woman is said in Arabic, that it is also a derivative of the translated words - a mirror and that our love reflects, looks at, but also our investment in women's and entrepreneurship ideas, innovations. I can tell you in my experience in medicine that women today wear Serbia's health system and that I have collected the greatest knowledge from women. That's the whole truth. Of course, I learned from men. Far from it. However, this law, I say, greater gender equality would also have positive effects on the economic and social development of society, growth in gross income, increase in employment and productivity levels, a reduction in poverty. According to a survey conducted by the European Institute for Gender Equality, an improvement in gender equality by 2050 would lead to an increase in gross social income per capita in the EU by 6.1%, to 9.6% and another 10.5 million jobs by 2050. These are concrete facts about what we get with our humanity, what we gain by equality because indeed women are a great potential for our society. Also, this bill poses no threat to the preservation of the family, not even family values. Greater participation of women in the labour market, more equal distribution of unpaid work between women and men, better protection of women employed who will not delay birth due to fear of losing their jobs certainly contribute to family planning, increased birth rate and are fully in line with the objectives of our population policy. Introducing gender equality in education, learning from the earliest age on gender respect, non-violent ways of solving conflicts, preventing violence creates a basis for developing healthy family values. In order to achieve gender equality, it is also important to ensure the proactive role of men, or men, because gender equality does not involve changes that will take place at the expense of men, but rather changes in favour of all. The current Gender Equality Act has been in force since 2009. His task was primarily to raise the level of knowledge about the importance of gender equality, to promote the concept of equal opportunities. I'm saying, that's where we Social Democrats played one of the key roles, and that was very difficult at that point, but I have to say that at that point, there were a lot of unresolved problems that this country had, but we, or our leader, were allowed to deal with it. We can agree in the assessment that this law has met its expectations at some point, especially in certain areas, and one of these areas is women's participation in political life. The National Assembly is a good example and we are among parliaments with the highest number of women, 99 out of 250 MPs, and 39.6%, respectively. In terms of the draft law on gender equality, a balanced gender representation exists when the representation of one of the sexes is between 40 and 50% in relation to the other sex and I have to say that we use the less represented sex in the law and thus avoid the formulations of the weaker sex and everything that would not be good at contaminating, which we want to say something we could cause. Furthermore, the bill defines general and specific measures to improve equality in different areas, such as labour, employment, self-employment, social and health care, education, information and communication technologies and other areas. I would especially refer to the field of work and employment. It's a key thing. According to data from the Republic Institute of Statistics in Publications – women and men in Serbia 2020, the largest birth gap in the labour market was recorded in the category of persons aged 55-64, where the employment rate of women is 40.5% and the male employment rate is 60.8% and that is something we have to face. I mentioned it, but later on, I'm going to do everything that we're like as a committee and what we want in cooperation with you who really have one good initiative to solve, but this is one of the key issues. Whether employed or not, women work in the house twice as much as men, the publication says. So, whether they're employed or not, women work twice as hard in the house and spend half their time on paid jobs. It is found that for women employed, working in the house becomes something like a second shift. In the bill, it is precisely the area of work and employment that contains a series of measures to ensure equal opportunities for women and men as well as sensitive social groups. Specially sensitive groups envisioning the taking of incentive measures include pregnant women, maternity mothers, victims of domestic violence and gender-based violence. Older persons and persons with disabilities, as well as members of the Roma national minority, but also persons of different sexual orientation and gender identity. Unpaid work in the house and on the farm is foreseen as the basis for obtaining health insurance, if the person is not health insurance on another basis. A significant part of the provisions of the law concerns measures to curb and prevent all forms of gender-based violence, violence against women and domestic violence. We are further in line with the Istanbul Convention, and starting with the GREVIO report. Support services for victims of violence such as psychosocial and legal assistance, social and health care, national sauce phones, safe accommodation in shelters, medical and laboratory examinations are also provided. The introduction of a programme for persons who have committed violence in order to adopt a non-violent model of behaviour is also foreseen. These programmes for perpetrators of violence are implemented in legally prescribed conditions and ensuring that victims of violence are of primary importance. I've listed the specific old ones, and I think each one of these is more of a fact to convince you that these are good laws that need to be supported and nothing but this. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prohibition of discrimination, the new concepts, such as the indication of discrimination and segregation, are defined. I think that this is very relevant, that we should take special care of this, and that there is certainly a harmonisation of the definition of indirect discrimination with EU legislation, I have nothing against it. I think that knowledge and good rights are in the EU certainly not on Kamchatka or in South America. With regard to the election of the Commissioners, given that the law deals with this and to ensure continuity in the work, the National Assembly is scheduled to begin the process of electing a new Commissioner three months before the trustee's term expires. The authority to appeal to the Trustee, in addition to those deemed to have suffered discrimination, shall also have organisations or associations engaged in the protection of human rights under the conditions laid down in this law, as an inspection in accordance with the law governing inspection supervision. Believe me, I've read this law several times and I haven't seen anywhere that the Commissioner is taking part in the trial or in the prosecution or in any of the items conducted by our legislation. And, I'd like you to explain it once again, but I certainly believe that the Commissioner is extremely important to our society and has shown it through all these years since there has been, the Trustee in this case, first of all, once and for all with his own activity. You just mentioned, we had a report on the discrimination of older people on Friday. I, again, say as someone who comes from a traditional environment, where we take special care of the elderly, I was surprised that in other places, it's exactly what some people think, because if they're young, if those old people who just got this all we got today, they don't deserve that much attention as those young people think they deserve. It's something that's unacceptable to our society, and we're just solving it along with everything that you're through wonderful examples for blind people, for people with disabilities who don't even have access to the hospital because of some of the things that we're just editing these laws of discrimination. I absolutely don't see any reason not to adopt any law. And I stand on that I will change my mind if one of the arguments convinces me otherwise. Therefore, the aim of this law is to improve the law into a legal framework in order to create a society of equal opportunities. I believe that these laws represent a step forward in the development of human and minority rights, and therefore the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality proposed, we had a session on Friday, we had a fruitful debate among ourselves, and we proposed that the National Assembly accept these proposals, of course, to accept the law in principle, because we think that the laws are good and that they promote our society in human rights and we think that we as Social Democrats, since I am now speaking as a representative of my parliamentary group, we will certainly support these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6618	The president of the SVM parliamentary group Balint Pastor has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6619	Madam Chairman, Ms. Vlada Komic, I certainly did not make this mistake, I do not know how to say it correctly, this is how it is certainly done both by grammatical and other regulations and rules, Mr. Mirovic, Mr. President of Sremski Karlovci municipality, I am sorry that the proposal for a law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and incentivising the development of Sremski Karlovci in the shadow of these other two draft laws. The chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information said a few hours ago that she hoped it would not happen, but it did happen, that's what was expected. But to fix it a little bit, in order to come to such a balance I will only talk about this proposal of the Sremski Karlovci law, and Elvira Kovac will talk in further discussion about other draft laws that are on the agenda. Why is this proposal of the Sremski Karlovci law significant? For a few reasons. The first reason is the formal nature, and it concerns that the mandated legislator of this bill is the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, which used its constitutional right to propose laws to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the past twenty years, this is the 41st Bill of Law that has arrived from the AP Vojvodina Assembly, which is being discussed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore it is seen that this day is not like any other day. When I say how much of the bill was passed by the National Assembly, which came from the AP Vojvodina, then you will see that this day is a holiday, because it was a total of four draft laws that came from the AP Vojvodina Assembly to the National Assembly, and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted them. Of those four laws, three were passed in 2002 and 2003. It is the Law establishing certain responsibilities of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. The Omnibus Act, which was adopted in 2002, was about amendments to the 2003 Law on Privatisation, it was about the Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation, i.e. The Law on Lustration in the same year 2003, and the last law to be adopted, whose proposal was the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, was the Law on the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina. The law was passed in 2012. I am extremely pleased that the National Assembly is today, or that the National Assembly is discussing this bill. That's the reason for the formal nature. The reason for the essential nature refers to the Sremski Karlovci and what Sremski Karlovci means to all of us. In the past and debates and the previous weeks when it came to this matter, it was first and foremost talked about what Sremski Karlovci means to the Serbian people and it is undeniable, but I would like to talk about some other aspects. Of course, the Sremski Karlovci for the Serbian people are significant because the Mayan Assembly was held there in 1848. We Hungarians see it a little differently and these are historical facts and that is the right of all, but it is certainly a historical event, and we also know the facts about the Metropolitan, or the patriarch of the Serbian and the connection between them and the Sremski Karlovci for decades and centuries. It's all indisputable, but that's what we're talking about, and the being of the word is probably still. What I would like to underline is the importance of Sremski Karlovci for European political history and for the political history of all those peoples who live, not only on our premises, but on the premises of the old continent. It is, above all, that from 1698 to 1699, from October 1698 to February 1699, negotiations were held in that very place, and there was a peace that we now know as the Karlovac Peace. This peace, this peace treaty, that peace agreement is important for Europe as a whole, because after decades and centuries of peace, Europe was freed, and most of Europe, and most of our worlds today, have freed themselves from government, so to speak, the Ottoman Empire. Of course, there were exceptions, let's say Banat, etc., but most of our territory today, but Europe has also been freed by the Ottoman Empire's very peace agreement that was concluded today, we would say to the Sremski Karlovci. A little bit of a connection between Vojvodina and this topic and a little bit of Srem, and Buck, and Banat, or some local and some other local self-government, except for the Sremski Karlovci, I said Banat was an exception and that he had not freed himself from the Ottoman Empire with that peace. It was preceded by the Sencan battle, the battle of Senta, which took place on September 11th, 1697. It was a great victory won by Eugene Savoy against the Ottoman Empire. That's the part about Saint. But there is a detail that binds Sombor. That battle was painted, it was oil on canvas, it was one huge painting seven times four meters, France Eisenhut, and that image of the Sentinel Battle is located in the building of the former county of Sombor. So this is how we connect Sombor, Sremska Karlovci and Sainta. I hope that in other countries of Europe too, they are aware of what Sainta means to them and what the Sremski Karlovci means to them. Which is why we still support this Sremski-Karlovci bill, which is the next fact. The very name of the law, I speak a little short of the Sremski Karlovci Act, but the law, i.e. the bill, bears the name of the Law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and fostering the development of Sremski Karlovac. The key is that, in the same sentence, in the same title of the law, it refers to the restoration of heritage on the one hand and the promotion of development on the other hand. It's something that should be an example to many. It's something I call a new modern view of our heritage. Our heritage of cultural and historical and building heritage must be preserved, it must be restored. This should be undeniable, it should be a goal for all of us and therefore I look forward to the fact that the Parliaments of the AP Vojvodina, on a proposal from the province government, have referred this bill to our procedure. This does not concern only the Sremski Karlovci, I hope that the example will be, perhaps not the words to be used, in 2020 and 2021, but I will say, contagious, that this example will be contagious and that this way we will protect our construction heritage in other municipalities and cities of the Republic of Serbia. And what makes me happy is that the same title also discusses the preservation of heritage and the promotion of development. Because preservation of heritage should foster development, because this should affect the economy and especially the branch of an economy called tourism. The Sremski Karlovci should also be restored for tourists, but also for our citizens, primarily because of those who live there. I know exactly what's in the Sremski Karlovci, I spent a few days alone there at the beginning of this year, so what I'm saying is not from Wikipedia, I suggest that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia visit the Sremska Karlovci, because there they will see buildings such as are not in any municipality or city of our Republic. There are churches of Orthodox and Catholics from the 18th century. There are city houses from the beginning of the 19th century. There is, for example, a fountain called "Four Lions" and that fountain was built in 1799 and that is an interesting fact in itself, but when I say why it was built, that fact is even more interesting. It was built to mark the construction of the first sewer system in the city in 1799. These are all the reasons why we all need to guard the Sremski Karlovci, all of us Sremski Karlovci, regardless of nationality, for some other reasons should mean something, as well as the fact that the Karlova High School this year marks 230 years of existence, and as a local patriot, I will say the Subotic High School is only four years younger. This year, however, the Karlovak High School marks, or celebrates 230 years of existence. I said that there are other cities in Serbia that deserve to be restored in this way and that an architectural heritage is preserved. I'll just mention one case from the recent history of Subotica. It's about the narrow center of Saturday, zone two. There was a public debate and thanks to the harmony of citizens and some other facts we managed to preserve this construction heritage and come to the decision that the plan of detailed regulation, which did not view the city centre as a unique ambience, would return to the development and that the new plan is fully in view of everything that we are talking about today for the Sremska Karlovci. There are two ways of looking at these things today. According to one way there are monuments of culture and these monuments of culture are undeniably to be kept, to be restored, because this stems from their status as cultural monuments. In this way of thinking, all those buildings that have not been declared a monument of culture, but also because of the year of construction or for some other reason undisputed have a certain value, can collapse. It's something that I deeply disagree with and that we managed to adopt as a thought in Subotica a few months ago when we talked about it, that the entire center is considered an ambience and that it's being preserved and restored. According to other visions, only what is a monument of culture should be preserved and restored. But you can't just declare every building a cultural monument. What would the Sremski Karlovci, if we stayed at the subject of our debate, look like if there, say, between the building of Patriarchia and the Karlova High School, there were three, so-called, magnificent buildings built of concrete and glass, at a height of 20 meters? I think this is the best proof that we should preserve our historical, cultural and construction heritage in both Sremski Karlovci and Sudotica, and in Sombor, and in Apatin, Sombor is a great example, both in Novi Sad, in Belgrade and in all other local governments of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, this was the case decades ago, because in 1968 the Regional Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments protected the Petrovaradin Fortress, Zrenjanin, Becej, Sombor, in the early 70s Pančevo and Vrsac, as well as the rural ambital continent of the center in Banatski Novo Selo. The same year 1991, when the previous Sremski Karlovci Act was adopted, the decision at the time confirmed by the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina that the protected core of Subotica enjoys the status of a spatial-cultural and historical continent in the precisely established borders. Key words are the spatial-cultural-history continent. These are key words for both Sremski Karlovci and Subotica and Belgrade, as well as for other local self-governments, because it is said in professional terminology about historical cities. Finally, to say that I am pleased that cultural goods will be restored within the space-cultural and historical continent of Sremski Karlovci, which will bring about a spatial plan of the area of special purpose. This may be the most important, at least as important as the current bill that will become the law is important. It is good that a Committee on the Reconstruction and Development of Sremski Karlovci will be established, that the Republic government, the province authorities and local self-government units will co-operate. I hope that the Republic of Serbia will also take part in funding. We will always advocate that there is always funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the Sremski Karlovci, as well as for other cities and municipalities, when it comes to restoring the historical heritage, and I hope that the assistance of European funds and other funds will also be the means for this purpose. What's it all about? This is important about the spirit of the place – genius loci and because we have to keep what we have. I hope that within a few days, the National Assembly will unanimously adopt this bill and that this bill will be the first to arrive from the AP Vojvodina Assembly to adopt it unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6620	Thank you. One notice about today's work. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now, in accordance with Article 87, I'm setting a break. We'll be back in 15 hours and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6621	Ladies and gentlemen, we move on. Before I give my word to Žarko Obradovic, just to let you know that we will be working in principle by 19.00 today. The word is Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6622	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Minister, the Honorable Prime Minister of the government, Mr. Vojvodina, Mr. Mirovic, fellow Members and fellow MPs. As an authorised representative of the SPS, I will talk about these four legislative documents that the Assembly is discussing today, and I want to say right away at the beginning that the SPS will support these proposals whether it is about amendments and amendments to the law, whether it is about completely new legal solutions, because these laws each in their own way improve the system of relations and improve the quality of life in the Republic of Serbia, ensure respect for human rights and the freedom and equality of citizens. I'd like first of all to say a few words about amendments to the law on secondary education. The amendments to this law allow for the functioning of a system of education and education at the level of secondary education, at the time when we are affected by the pandemic of this virus Kovid-19. It must be said at the beginning of any story relating to the laws in the field of education that the Ministry has succeeded in the previous year and a few days, practically for two school years, to solve the basic problem facing the Republic of Serbia, or the whole society, that it is to preserve the health of students, that it has found a solution to how to teach in the existing conditions at the same time changes and additions of different laws, and in other ways it has made changes, whether it is about short-term or long-term goals to be achieved in the education and education system. This in itself says that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is constantly working to improve the quality of availability and justice of the education system in the Republic of Serbia. With the bill we're talking about today, the Ministry solves one inherited problem, it's a major graduation, the deadlines for holding that final exam before entering the space of higher education, and it solves several ongoing problems, such as the records of data being submitted when entering high school or data on national belongings in cases where individual groups or persons who perform enrolment in high school are enrolled under more favourable conditions, in order to achieve full equality. In this way, when it comes to this part of the Law, we can freely link it to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, because here the Ministry applies positive discrimination to provide certain persons or groups of persons with the conditions they need to continue their education. This says that the education system also shows the willingness to make changes so that all children have equal chances of showing their abilities. Namely, for these persons it is envisaged that the individual educational plan they possess is accompanied by the enrolment of students in high school and that they can continue their education in accordance with their needs and opportunities. There is another part that represents a solution to the current issue within the secondary education system. In fact, it is possible to resolve foreign language classes in those schools where certain problems exist. In fact, the bill promoter provided for the possibility that in those departments for children who have special preferences for philosophical sciences, and there is no possibility of teaching related to foreign language in a quality way, that there is a formation of a department that will include students of different classes and that the department is formed, whether it is a section of 15 or 12 students. Of course, you can always ask the question – will the fact that this department covers students from different classes affect the quality of education, the whole learning process? This can be questioned, of course, in relation to the way these classes are performed. Because you have another question. If such a solution is not approached as the Ministry predicted, the question arises as to how these children will master that foreign language, whether it is possible to provide within the school or whether another educational institution must be sought, or simply the children will be left without that level of teaching. When it comes to high school graduation, you should remind, just to say one more thing, that in our schools you learn six foreign languages and then you can understand the complexity of solving this problem, but also the Ministry's intention to even solve this seemingly small problem in a quality way. When it comes to high school graduation, it has to be said that it's an inherited problem. Namely, the draft concept of the final exam in secondary education has been made since October 2012 and since then, as Minister Ruzic says, not entering into who is responsible and to what extent, the fact is that we have failed to complete this job at a certain time or within the deadlines set and the Ministry is working to resolve this issue. Minister Ruzic introduced us to all elements related to the implementation of this important project. It should be mentioned that it is necessary to establish high-quality co-operation between the Ministry of Education, secondary schools and colleges in order to create a quality program for the maintenance of the final graduation, because it is about that final graduation, the final exam should ensure representation and general education, the representation of professional subjects, the consistency of the programme of entrance exams and the secondary education programme, when it comes to the distribution of points on the level of education, which is the threshold of passivity and a number of other things. The fact is, and this is mentioned by the minister, and it says in the light of this law, that certain higher education institutions have not yet adopted the necessary documents, that over the past two school years teaching has taken place in the pandemic frameworks, that software as a technical component of state graduation has not been provided, but that many other positive things have been done. I think the deadline is 2023/2024. years as the beginning of this final exam, let me say, the right measure, the time measure, relative to all the content of the work that stands before the Ministry of Science, Education and Technological Development. This is not our wetland, this program, the final exam program is being held in other countries, and it is important to mention that it is an integral part of the education and education system. By the way, I'd just like to take the opportunity to say that the ministry is constantly working on reforming general secondary education, implementing new programmes and monitoring them in high school, that this is about developing a system of recognition of previous learning, I'm talking about secondary education. The minister spoke about the project "My High School", i.e. introducing a digitalized application for admission exams and enrolment in high school. Digital textbooks and digital classrooms in secondary education were also implemented, new teaching and learning programmes were adopted in specialized departments for students with skills in high school, mathematics, physics, history, geography, chemistry and biology. I mentioned all these things to the Serbian public how important everything the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is doing, especially in these pandemic conditions. I think he's done a good job of solving the problem he's facing, and at the same time he's solving some of the system stuff. In any case, all these elements, alterations and additions to the Law on Middle Education, which I have mentioned each in its own way, improves the system. As I mentioned at the beginning, the SPS will vote for the adoption of this law. Now let me say a few words about the proposal for a law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and incentivising the development of the Sremski Karlovac. It's a shame not to say a few words about this important law. I am pleased that Mr. Mirovic is here today with his associate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and has the opportunity to introduce us to the content of this law, because it is a city that represents one true jewel of the Republic of Serbia for many reasons. I think it is a good thing that the circuit assembly and the province government continue to deal with this topic and for 30 years after the adoption of the first law and that a committee will be formed at the level of the Republic that will deal with the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and the development of the Sremski Karlovac. Sremski Karlovci, if I may say, are one of the most beautiful places in the Republic of Serbia. All those things Mr. Mirovic mentioned, which are known or not, about Sremski Karlovci, say how important it was for Serbia's history. I think he absolutely deserves the attention that is given him and everything that is planned to be done, because one city that has the religion, here we heard from Mr. Mirovic that by age, if I can use that term, the second after the Kyiv religion, then the existence of the magistrate, the Roman Catholic Church of the Holy Trinity, theology seminar and Stefaneum. All those things he mentioned about both Serbian high school and other institutions that were founded in Sremski Karlovci say how important this place is. He also mentioned Branko Radicevic and others. Here, I will mention Sima Milutinovic Sarajli, Dimitri Davidovic, Sterija Popovic and others who finished school in Sremski Karlovci. He also mentioned the Karlovci in historical terms as a meeting place for the east and west of 1699, the Karlovci Peace. It all says what the Sremski Karlovci meant and what they mean in the history of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a great thing that the provincial government is dealing with the preservation of cultural and historical heritage owned by the Sremski Karlovci and is working to encourage the development of the Sremski Karlovci. Otherwise, I would like to remind the present colleagues and colleagues that the status of the cultural and historical integrity of the city core of Sremski Karlovac was established in 1990, and the law dealing with the preservation of cultural and historical heritage was passed in 1991. The law very precisely determines all those elements that are important for the realization of conservation, i.e. the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and the promotion of the development of the Sremski Karlovci. I think it will improve the development of the Sremski Karlovci in the best way, but it will also help all others, as well as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as others who will come to the Republic of Serbia to visit the Sremski Karlovci and to get acquainted with their content. It is good that Mr. Mirovic also mentioned various infrastructure projects that will connect Sremske Karlovci with other parts of Serbia and in itself says how important it is to pass this law. Of course, we'll back him up. When it comes to the next two laws, the law on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting discrimination and gender equality, both laws are dedicated to improving and expanding equality in the Republic of Serbia, equality among citizens. Both laws in themselves provide one assessment of the quality of respect for human rights, talks about the degree of development of a society, in this case the Republic of Serbia, the democratic capacity of the Republic of Serbia, about tolerance, respect, diversity, respect and the intention of the Republic of Serbia to put all its citizens in a position to enjoy the same rights and to have the same chances of success in life. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, I must say that the prohibitions and prevention of all aspects of discrimination are one of the key topics of most international regional organisations under whose auspices and many conventions have been adopted by the Republic of Serbia, but it must be said that discrimination and constitutional categories are banned. In Article 21(3), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that we are all equal before the Constitution and the law and that everyone has the right to equal protection and to prohibit any discrimination directly or indirectly on any basis, and particularly on the basis of race, gender, nationality of social origin, birth, religion and political and other beliefs, property conditions, language, age, mental or physical credibility. It may also seem to one of the unnecessarily repeating these constitutional provisions, but I think it should be said, publicly, to remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia of what it means to prohibit discrimination. In fact, we know that this law was passed in 2009 and that it was necessary to bring the content of this law in line with EU law and, of course, adapt to new circumstances. Article 2 of this Act extends the concept of discrimination and discriminatory behaviour by gender by those characteristics and income levels. In addition to the forms of discrimination already envisaged, Article 5 provides for harassment, humiliating treatment, full and gender harassment, indication of discrimination. The concept of segregation is introduced as any act to which a natural or legal person is separated for no objective reason to justify another group of persons, on the basis of personal property. Article 7 sets out more precisely indirect discrimination. Article 12 introduces the notion of gender and gender harassment, and it now says that harassment and humiliation are prohibited, full and gender harassment aimed at or constitutes a violation of the dignity of a person or a group of persons based on their personal qualities. The 2009 law also provides for difficult forms of discrimination, changes and additions that are on the agenda extend and add discrimination based on sexual orientation, age, and segregation. Article 20 is amended and read – discrimination based on gender, gender and gender identity, and it is said that discrimination exists if it is based on the principle of gender equality. Article 22 also changes, a ban on discrimination against disability, sexual orientation, birth identity and gender characteristics, ethical origin, nationality is extended. Also, there is no discrimination against old faces. They also have provisions of this law relating to the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, his deputy and the fact that one of the deputies should be, in the event of absence, prevention, the Trustee, able to do his job. The main objective of this law is to strengthen the anti-discrimination mechanism for implementing measures from this area, but also to create a social climate in which zero tolerance exists for each type of discrimination. Let me mention, I say, because my colleagues will talk a lot more about the draft law on gender equality, that it's a very important law. The law on gender equality is a roof document for the creation of a society in which all citizens have equal living conditions, which improves the institutional framework and creates conditions for the implementation of equal opportunities and conditions for the life, work and development of a male woman. By improving the legislative framework, it is necessary to ensure equal participation of women in all spheres of life, as well as the possibility of hearing their voice, which will contribute not only to their better position but also to the development of society as a whole. This law will regulate gender equality in the fields of labour, employment, only employment, social, health insurance, education, sport, political action, public affairs, reproductive and sexual rights, access to goods and services, as well as measures to combat and prevent all forms of gender-based violence against women and domestic violence. The law predicted that two bodies were formed at the government level, which would have an advisory and post-coordination function in the area of gender equality and a number of other solutions that in the Republic of Serbia should ensure the equality of all members, the Republic of Serbia, on this basis. Namely, there are statistics presented in the content of this law, showing that there is a need for one such law to be passed, and to ensure gender equality at all levels as well as all forms of life. In any event, the law contains provisions relating to the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality in the sense that it extends its competence. We will certainly talk about it in the follow-up of this discussion, and when it comes to amendments. It is important for us in the SAA to adopt this law, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Discrimination, because we believe that in this way the quality of life of citizens, the position of all people and simply, the Republic of Serbia shows by adopting this law the intention to follow social flows that exist at the level of Europe and to improve the position of all its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6623	I would like to thank the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group. For our children, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6624	Dear Ministers with fellow Members, Mr Mirovicu, President of the Regional Government with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, will at first say that the SNS will vote in favour of both draft laws and amendments and additions, the other two amendments and additions to the law. Right at the beginning that we're clear on that. Now I'm going to start by proposing a law on amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education and education. Dear People's MPs, the last amendment to the law on secondary education and education, came into force in 2020, about January 24th, and the amendments at that time enabled them to improve the application of individual legal solutions. And these individual legal solutions contributed to the quality of education. Not much and big, but they contributed. Today we have amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education and education, and precisely these changes that we are considering today, and additions, will contribute to the unity of the overall system of education and education, as one of the basic characteristics of the overall system. This is very important, let's say, and in order to achieve this, we need to bring the provisions of this law and amendments and additions into line with the provisions of the laws on the foundations of the education and education system, which is so-called. so the MPs would know, and I believe they know, so-called The roof law. Here we achieve this uniqueness, both these amendments and additions to the law on secondary education and education, will contribute to the quality of education, the availability of education, the fairness of education, which is extremely important for us in these pandemic conditions, the relevance of secondary education and education. These are basic, besides others, characteristics of secondary education and education. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has seen the current situation in these difficult pandemic times, and how education is conducted. We must conclude, as well as the Ministry and our parents, who now observe that two school years, starting in 2019, and 2020, and this 2021, have achieved education and education, in extremely difficult conditions, due to the Covid 19 virus pandemic, not to say, even worse war conditions. And when we gave this grade, the whole system of education and education, showed one high degree of adaptation to pandemic conditions, thanks to it, I must point out, primarily to our educators, our teachers, our teachers, our students and our students, and their teachers, and the parents of our students, the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. So all citizens of the Republic of Serbia contributed to the system for which, however, it was in relation to the environment at an envious level. We can freely determine regardless of this high degree, adapting to a new pandemic situation, the entire system of education and education, is not at the level he was at before the pandemic, and I have to agree with that. Of course these are objective reasons. Our teachers and educators from preschool institutions to the University, as well as our students and students, had to adapt to new methods of realization of teaching content. This is very difficult and therefore the weight of this teacher’s call, they had to adapt to new ways of carrying out practical training, new teaching methods and methods of testing and grading, the use of new teaching tools, which they had never even used before. So, looking at this in a new situation, I have to say, like our doctors, soldiers, cops, and other citizens, that's how our citizens contributed to these difficult times in the overall social movement. The Ministry of Education has constantly followed, and today it does, monitors the situation, brings measures, whose primary goal is the quality and availability of education and education. I stress, availability, assembly of rural environments. A number of higher education institutions, as has been said, have not adopted documents that prescribe conditions for candidate qualifications, following the graduation exam, from this place we appeal to our higher education institutions, for their own sake to bring these documents, but also for our youth. The Institute's exam centre, to evaluate quality, education and education, is equipped with contemporary printing and eight regional centres have been established, and our ministry representatives say that there is a number of people's employment, to which we appeal to the government to do so. The Commission for the Implementation of State Graduation performs its function in full capacity, I particularly stress this in these pandemic conditions. Finally with school 2021/2022. In the year, a final exam is passed for students who finish secondary education and education for three years. Finally with school 2021/2023. In the year, the school takes a prom exam for students who finish education and education for four years, in accordance with the law. Starting with school 2022/2023. In the year, the school takes the final exam of secondary vocational education and education, in accordance with the law. Starting with School 2023/2024. In the year, the school has a professional, artistic and general graduation, in accordance with the law. This will mean abolishing admission exams at the colleges of 2024, which we have long waited for. And it finally came to an end, because the final exam will be the only qualification condition for the enrollment of our students or students in higher education institutions. The amendments to the Articles of the Law on Secondary Education which prescribe records of secondary schools, as well as data which are part of those records and provisions which are prescribed by the data provided by the primary school when enroling students in high school and which data are provided by secondary schools that carry out the entrance exams for the verification of exceptional preferences and abilities. I'm undermining this - to check out exceptional proclivities and abilities. Nationality information for those students who are declared, primary schools are provided to the Ministry of Education in the process of enrolment of pupils in high school. And to be clear, for our parents' sake, it's to achieve full equality in gaining the knowledge of all our students. Information on the individual educational plan of the primary school is provided to the Ministry of Education in the process of enrolment of pupils in high school. Please, it's because it would allow high school students to be educated in accordance with their abilities and abilities. It's not true that this plan isn't good, it's extraordinary. This is an individual approach and for the first time in verticals we have, so to speak, from preschool institutions to higher education. The harmonisation of this law with the Personal Data Protection Act will also be carried out. Amendments are also necessary in order to bring the Law on secondary education and education in line with the provisions of the Law with the basics of the system of education and education. Dear People's MPs, let me say that this law will not be implemented without teachers. They're the key to the solution. Our teachers, who have been heroes in these conditions, and students and teachers and parents, are the key to the problem, but the teacher must love his job in the first place, must love the students, must cooperate with both students and parents and with the social environment, and with authorities in the local community. The success of education and education depends on the teaching of teachers, I underline – the teaching provision, because the one who does not like work, who is not a real educator, will not succeed. Unfortunately, we don't really have a part of the teaching class today. I'm just going to quote the biggest Swiss paedagogist who said – the enthusiasm that I could start my hands gave me so much strength that I could climb the highest Alps, just so I could get started. Think of raising children. Well, we need teachers like that today, more than ever. Let me say how important education and education is for the state, the best shown by Plato in his “State” section, which said: “The state will not be harmed if the shoemaker has no idea about his trade, only the Athenians will be badly shoeed, but if the teacher is a bad parent, the future generations will be ignorant.” Finally, let me quote the Russian educator Belinski, who said: “If I were born ten times, I would take a teaching call ten times, for there is no more noble calling than it is a teacher’s call. “ In the end, about this law, respected MPs, respected vice presidents of the National Assembly, it is not easy to be a teacher, I mean under teacher to university professors, because teaching a child a number, putting letters in a word, reading them, writing them, erasing them, understanding them, knowing it, is just a small part of what the teacher really is. I don't mean to say what a teacher does because being a teacher isn't a job. To be a teacher is to love. To be a teacher is to feel, to be a teacher is to be a teacher, to be a teacher is simply to be. In order not to ignore this other law, as Mr. Pastor has said, I will now say something about the proposal for a law on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and incentives for the development of the Sremski Karlovci. I would like to say immediately that she has instructed him, as the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and its President, Mr Pastor, on the proposal of the Provincial Government, Mr Mirovic, for which we really thank them. We will regulate the basics for the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and incentives for the development of the Sremski Karlovac, because it has been 30 years before the adoption of the previous law. They're asking citizens today in front of the Assembly why this law. Let me say why and give him a little more time. Because the Sremski Karlovites are a unique cultural heritage, one of the unique cultural heritage in our entire country, because it is the obligation and duty of all generations to remember that in Sremski Karlovci, the Karlovci peace, the place where the fate of Europe was being built, and not to say the impact on world history at that time. That is why Sremski Karlovci, which was the first theatre performance in 1734, was founded in 1743 in Sremski Karlovci, or as Mr Mirovic said yesterday on the Committee, a drawing school or painting school. Because in 1752, the first and oldest library in Serbia opened in Sremski Karlovci, because in 1758 one of the prime printing and copper-cutting workshops was founded in Sremski Karlovci. Because in 1792 the first Serbian high school was founded in Sremski Karlovci, which was spoken of by Mr Balint today. Because in 1848, Serbia's Vojvodina was declared in Sremski Karlovci. Because in 1901, Dr. Laza Popovic installed one of the first rengens in the Balkans. Because in 1920, just in Sremski Karlovci, churches were united and the Serbian Patriarchate was established. Because it has just passed, ladies and gentlemen of the 18th century, that one of the greatest names of our history or past has been grown on the slopes of Sremski Karlovci, as you will, I will mention a few of them: Vuk Stefanović Karadzic, Branko Radčević, Sima Milutinović Sarajlija, Patrijarh Joseph Fryarčić, Laza Terečki, Jovan Sterija Popović, Djordje Popošević, Duke Stefan Šupljić, academician Dejan Medaković, Borislav Mihajlović Mihiz and many others whom we have remained obliged to preserve and deliver to younger generations of our golden heritage, the Sremski Karlovci are a golden heritage, and as Mr. Pastor said, not only the Sremski-Karlovics, but many of Serbia and Serbia's citizens of V. This is an example of how we will work in the future every cultural and historical heritage in Vojvodina and Serbia in general. Respecting our history, but we are even more obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to our future, for which we, ladies and gentlemen, are responsible. Today, this generation, we will be worthy of our ancestors, and to the pride of our descendants, just for this sort of thing. The funds will be provided for the implementation of this law from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, local self-government and, I stress, by means of the European Union and other international funds, donations and other funds. It is particularly important that we know that the state of Serbia is making huge efforts, as Mr Mirovic said in the opening work, in the reconstruction of the railway and the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor. All this is important for the complete economic, tourist and cultural development of the municipality of Sremski Karlovci, Novi Sad and Vojvodina in general. Take my word for it, Duke in general, when all this is done. It is all an integral part of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of citizens of our country, and as you know, the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President, Alexander Vukic. Besides, let me say, although Mr. Mirovic said a few words, what has been done so far. A project-technical documentation of the partner arrangement of Sremski Karlovac was developed, a project of technical documentation for the future archive, according to Mr Mirović, at the house of Svetosavko dom, the creation of an idea project of rehabilitation, conservation and adaptation and reconstruction of the elementary school facility "23. October" in Sremski Karlovci, making documentation for the restoration of facades, I stress, the restoration of facades, in the streets of Mitrovica Stratimirović, Patriarch Rajačić, Trga Branko Radičević, as you have heard, both Catholic churches and other cultural buildings. The restoration and restoration of the Patriarch's Court was also done. Technical documentation was made for the reconstruction of the streets of Karlovci djeka, Karadjordjeva and the works of Preradovic's street. The head of the province's government, Mr Igor Mirovic, who is here today among us, has initiated a docking in Sremski Karlovci to Petrovaradin. The funds have been provided, as we have said, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, local self-government, but I am undermining once more the European Union and other international funds. It is particularly important to stress that the state of Serbia is making huge efforts to reconstruct what I said, those railways. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, after 30 years, unfortunately we are finding this, we return, because so much has passed, to the idea of academics Dejan Medakovic, one of the initiators of the 1992 law, and to the meeting of a hundred-year anniversary of his birth. It is precisely this law that needs to be comprehensive in financial, technical and organisational terms to enable a stable institutional and financial framework for the sustainable development of the unique cultural heritage of Karlovac. All of this is very important for the complete economic, tourist and cultural development of the Sremski Karlovci. Thank you to the President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Mr Pastor, for the MPs of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, thank the governments, the province government of the AP Vojvodina, headed by Mr Mirovic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Ana Brnabic, the citizens of Serbia, and thank President Vukic for modernising our country. This restoration of cultural and historical heritage in the Sremski Karlovci, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen, is for memory, for memory, for memory. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6625	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Dear People's MPs, since we no longer have registered representatives or presidents, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has a folk letter from Prof. Dr. Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6626	Thank you. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a debate on four very important laws. We have already heard this many times today, the finding that it is not possible in a relatively short time period to give an adequate reference to all four important laws. The law on secondary education and education is very important and, as we can see, treats important issues. One of the important issues is the issue of national graduation, which is treated by this law and in due course will be implemented in practice. What I would like to praise in this law, among other things, is the issue of modernisation, i.e. digitisation through the portal "Better High School", as the minister announced in his discussion, which will make it much easier to access information and everything else necessary for both high school and their parents and others who participate in the education process. The issue of protection of cultural heritage, in this case Sremski Karlovac, but also the cultural heritage of all peoples living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is one of the important issues. Therefore, through certain legislation, it is only possible to preserve and improve the cultural heritage that is very important for the future of generations to come. Two laws, truth, the first law is to amend and supplement the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, and the whole new law is a law on gender equality, two laws that have caused a lot of attention. The fact that these laws, especially in the Law on Gender Equality, have long been the subject of complexity of matter itself, and of how we have already pointed out that it cannot be unilaterally and to say sometimes and hastily approach certain questions. So, the ban on discrimination is something that should be the fluid of modern societies, the state, if they want to ensure citizens' rights, because discrimination on any basis is actually something that is inadmissible, whether based on national, religious background, gender discrimination, age discrimination, is absolutely unacceptable on any other basis. When it comes to the law on gender equality, our party leader Zukorlic, in the opening lecture, pointed out what our concerns are and somewhere, to say, caution and caution regarding this draft of the law. In many ways, he pointed to all the shortcomings that we feel should be done and perhaps reconsidered. In fact, when we say the law on gender equality, it is usually meant by a law that treats only some woman's rights, and it's not, because equality implies equality between men and women in all the fields of life. In practice, women’s rights have been broken very often. From that point on, it's probably always alluding to that sex that was more threatened at one point, which was definitely women. So, women's rights and guaranteeing women's rights in terms of both private and public spheres, political spheres, should be absolutely impartial and give support to this kind of equality, in which we are certainly and absolutely clear. What we've pointed out, which is our caution in terms of this law, is exactly an attempt to change ethically and culturally in some way, and somewhere a religious code or pattern, actually. The fact is that the peoples living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is a very important segment of their lives. So, we are for the European path, we are for what the EU is offering, but through one wealth, through a series of differences that in terms of economic issues, therefore development, we have had a common approach and policy within the EU, but on the other hand, to preserve the authenticity of the people within that Union, which is something that is very important. On the other hand, the question of the language meaning of the word gender and gender seems to me that there is not enough differentiation in the public, or differentiation, because when we talk about gender definitions, we say that it is something that is perceived in society, and yet on the other hand, whenever discrimination happens in terms of women's rights, women's rights, discrimination always happens on the basis of what a woman is, whether a mother is, whether I know something else. So that there should be a clearer differentiation. In any case, we think these things should be very sensitive, seriously approached and offered an even more adequate model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6627	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Selma Kučević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, we have some very important laws on the agenda for all citizens of Serbia today. In my address, I will refer to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Although Serbia's lagging behind in European processes has been evident in recent years, this bill has shown the possibility of respecting European reports and improving the Eurointegration process itself. As I assume to you all know that for all candidates who claim to enter the process of Eurointegration, the rights of national minorities are extremely important and are political, or so on. Copenhagen criteria and, as such, represent and take a very significant place in these processes. But so far, in practice in almost all areas, the discriminatory relationship, both with the state authorities towards Bosniaks and Albanians, has also been a very tolerated attitude of state authorities towards violation of the fundamental rights of national minorities. Here, first of all, I think that in the towns of Sandzak, as well as the cities of Presevo Valley, the state's desire for a balanced development of all regions has not been sufficiently expressed, so capital investments, investments, jobs have completely bypassed these cities of Serbia. There is also a high concern of citizens with regard to inadequate representation in state authorities, the judiciary, police, the prosecution, customs and border offices, as well as inspection services. Young people of the Presevo Valley are being brought into an unequal position with other peers from other parts of Serbia by not recognising a diploma. I must also mention that citizens in these municipalities cannot have their basic rights in their cities, but must go to other cities because of the removal of republican institutions and institutions, which, of course, further endangers and makes it difficult enough for these citizens, and requires much more costs and time. All forwards are said to be the reason why we are in this representative body, and we will certainly advocate the process of decentralisation and regionalisation, in order to ensure a balanced development and progress of all areas within the country itself. So, this decades-old carelessness and neglect of these cities, expressed in a lack of investment in infrastructure, today is very, very burdensome for the everyday lives of citizens and is making economic development impossible. In other words, it is more than obvious that there is no strategically designed and comprehensive approach to solving these problems. One of the types of discrimination was certainly when writing the Action Plan, I am talking about Chapters 23 and 24, and in particular the minority part, from which all the legitimate representatives of the Bosniaks were expelled. So this action plan completely ignores Bosniaks and their real needs. Such an Action Plan for us is absolutely unacceptable and illegal, so we will certainly advocate the revision of the same. Further discrimination is being looked at in the case that we had when we proposed forming a editorial in the Bosnian language, where we were rapidly given a negative response, without an adequate explanation. One of the most difficult types of discrimination the Bosniaks have experienced is denial of Bosnian language. The provisions of the Law on Regional and Minority Languages were thus violated in this way. Despite established discrimination, however, no one has done anything, nor has been prosecuted. I am pleased that Mr. Ruzic is present, so I am curious whether he is familiar with this kind of treatment by a member of the National Educational Council, and that if he knew whether he had taken any steps to stop this kind of discrimination and intrusion into the national feelings of a nation. So, in the final election of judges, we have witnessed the challenge of two Bosniaks' candidacy, without any explanation, although in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly it stands, Article 201 paragraph 3, that each challenge must be explicitly challenged. Of course, we got no explanation. We can freely conclude that these candidates are challenged because of their name and last name. These candidates have been through everything, both judicial and security checks, but their bids have been challenged. If we are talking about a strategic document, what is the Space Plan, a document that determines Serbia's future over the next 15 years, which we have seen in the past few days, we are free to say that the Space Plan absolutely does not foresee any capital project for the cities of Sandzak. So, some political parties serve the citizens of Sandzak some sort of agreement, and the Space Plan totally discriminates on us. On several occasions, I was already talking about various forms of discrimination that used to be common, which was recognizable, and then nicely wrapped and difficult to identify from insufficient representation in state authorities, and then interrupts the supply of electricity, not employment in health. One question is raised – what hope do we have regarding the new Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, if the state is not in spite of all the mechanisms and capacities at its disposal, but to protect what is written in its Constitution and laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6629	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6630	Thank you. I am grateful for the information you have shared with us, and it concerns the problems the National Council of the Bosniak National Minority, as well as your impressions of the existence of the intention to defuse that part of Serbia in development, capital investment. As valuable as that information may be to us at the Ministry, neither of them has anything to do with the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination or the Law on Gender Equality. All information is related to the National Councils Act. I am still grateful that the Ministry is visiting administrative districts in Serbia, and to check why the Law on National Councils and other laws of our jurisdiction, including these two, which will be decided by the National Assembly, I hope, will come into effect by the will of the MPs. So far, we've visited 15 or 16 administrative districts. Meetings are attended by the heads of administrative districts with their councils, representatives of local self-government, representatives of the school administrations, representatives of the Centre for Social Work, representatives of the national councils they have, representatives of civil society dealing with any local topic, and we discuss why there is no law, why there is no Council for International Relations, why there is no employment of Roma or other representatives of minorities, as required by the Law on National Councils, why there is no Security Council, what is going on with the obligation or goodwill on the establishment of an institution of the Ombudsman local, official use of languages and letters, the rights of national minorities for which the local self-government is responsible. So, funding if their headquarters is in local self-government, then funding from the position of the 481st local self-government as an obligation to finance civil society, dialogue with civil society. So that's what we're doing, and the plan to visit the race, duck and bird district and the National Councils of Bosniaks and Albanians was before the epidemic, unfortunately, took hold of the outbreak, just six weeks ago, and as we hope the epidemic calms down forever, so we're making a plan for the visits we've delayed. So, in two things you can be sure, your information has nothing to do with the laws that are here at work, but we value them and will be working on meetings with administrative districts in Kruševec, Kralje, Vranje and with the National Councils of Bosniaks in Pazar and Albanians in Presevo together with the coordination body. Because it is important for us to show Serbia in part to apply the laws, as it is important for us to be a tool for national minorities. We've all made that clear, and that's how we're trying to achieve the result. Whether or not it's the only misunderstanding you've shared with us, and I don't know, to see what it's really about. If you mentioned a National Action Plan for National Minorities he was only in the process of making, if you had a reference to the one that expired, it is fine, if you think the suggestions of the Bosniak National Council are not respected. Use of the official language and letters. So, the native language with the elements of the culture of the national minority is the obligation of the state to apply and the procedure is to follow that school directors survey all whether, as well as how many children want to study the native language with elements of national culture and application is quite colorful. You have a school director in various administrative districts in Serbia who are deaf about it, obsess over the obligation and pretend that these surveys do not exist. You have directors who work closely and committedly, and this will be a topic with the National Council of Bosniaks in Serbia where the problem is, whether it's a problem with school directors or some other problem, but official use of official language and letters, where the national minority has a legal basis of 17.5% will be. I'll give you an example immediately of the Vrbas municipality where the president of the Vrbas municipality has an official request for the official use of Montenegrin language and letters, but he claims that the Montenegrins will not. Then we talk to the Montenegrin National Council, they say they have a news and publishing company, they have a portal called "News" and we ask – which language is this portal for you? He says he's in Montenegrin. I say – well, if your portal is in Montenegrin, how do you read it if the president of the municipality says you do not want Montenegrin language as official in the Vrbas municipality? You know her to people. It's up to people and to all of us paid out of the budget to apply the law. What I would like to earn as a tool for the quality life of national minorities in Serbia is not to talk about the evil intentions of anyone, since I rarely see them, but I see works that clearly say that we will not apply the laws. Whether it is a national minority or most of it is quite colorful, but it is happening, and at the end of the second tour of the administrative districts in December 2021, together with the European delegation and with the public of Serbia, we will share all the information we have gathered at meetings in all the administrative districts of Serbia, and present to them all the laws of the Ministry of Human, Minority and Social Dialogue, they must apply. They're not the laws of any area of the Swedish table, so anyone can choose what they can apply or what they can't apply. I agree with you that we must have a dialogue on regional development. I hope that the National Council of Bosniaks in Serbia will also participate in the social dialogue that we have started, a series of social dialogues on Serbia's sustainable development because we believe that Serbia should get a common picture of its development in 2030 and that this mosaic, the images to be agreed, should be of information from the local level, from local self-government, from local communities, from places where people live and say they want to live together in dialogue with those who ultimately make decisions. So, I'm glad we heard it from you. I'm sorry it's not the subject of the law, but since the laws you mention in your presentation are also our jurisdiction, I simply feel obliged to give you all the information we currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6631	I thank the Minister for Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6632	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister Gordana Comic, Mr. Prime Minister of the province of Igor Mirovic, I will at first express my satisfaction, I will only talk about the Law on the Reconstruction of Sremski Karlovci, the satisfaction that a law proposed by the AP Vojvodina Assembly is on the agenda of our National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which I am almost sure will be adopted. I remember some of the earlier times when we had confrontations, something proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, doesn't even come to the agenda or gets taken off the agenda, and now we're discussing and we're all expressing our satisfaction. It's a sign of some new political culture that we have and it gives very good results. We no longer have a confrontation between the republican government, the province government, which is what we see in Vojvodina, because Vojvodina is taking great steps forward. I'm not talking about capital investments, everything that's going on in Vojvodina right now. We are all aware that the strong, developed Vojvodina draws Serbia forward. That's exactly what I have to point out in my first part. Of course, I want to say something else. You know, we're talking about Vojvodina. The word “North Region ” is often heard here. No, I don't. Please, I insist we say Vojvodina, because generations before us have fought very hard to get into a situation so that we can say "Vojvodina, Serbian Vojvodina". I don't want to talk about the Mayan Assembly that was in the Sremski Karlovci. That's a lot of words here. So we're talking about Vojvodina, one of our autonomous provinces, which is rich, which is developed. Do you know why she's rich and developed? Because it's multiethnic, multiconventional and because we respect each other. I am proud to hear the presentation of my fellow MP, Balint Pastor, who is a member of the Hungarian nationality, who spoke so well of the Sremski Karlovci. Like I'm happy to say when I go anywhere to Saturday, I'm talking about what's been achieved there, because that's what pervades us, that multiculturality means a lot to us. That's why Vojvodina is decorated, which is why Vojvodina is rich and rich. You know, we don't live side by side, we live with each other. We hang out, we visit, we respect each other. That's what I want to point out and that's what might be a message to everyone else, just with agreement, conversation, mutual respect we can go forward. Every confrontation leads to nothing good. There's a lot of good things about the Sremsky Carlovs here. I have to point out, and I was born not far from the Sremski Karlovci, the Sremski Karlovci are us who live there identity, history, culture and therefore support these two key words that are always in the law, which is the restoration of the cultural and historical heritage and the second promotion of the development of the Sremski Karlovac. You know, it doesn't mean anything to us that we have one city that will be just beautiful buildings and arranged. The Sremish Carlovites should be given their lives, they should be given their youth, and I am very sorry that the University of Novi Sad, which was founded, has no headquarters in the Sremski Karlovci. Then we'd have a Serbian Hajderberg. Unfortunately, it wasn't done, but it doesn't necessarily mean that some future generations, if the previous generations didn't make it, would bring it back to the Sremian Carlovites. You know, when you go from Novi Sad to Sremski Karlovci you pass the Petrovaradin Fortress, you pass the suburbs of Petrovaradin Fortress, it's a beautiful baroque city that is being arranged, it will be Europe's pride, and Vojvodina, Serbia is Europe, part of Europe. Many European values are precisely heritage in the Sremski Karlovci. You walk past the Church of Mary Snow, you walk past the Veziertz where there was a great battle, you come to the Sremski Karlovci, and it was all, everything here you said, that I wouldn't repeat it, because I won't have much time for it. But I want my point to be to encourage the development of the Sremski Karlovci. We have St. Andrew, a beautiful place next to Budapest, where Serbs lived, which was arranged, but there are no Serbs there anymore, there are fewer and fewer inhabitants. Let's revive the Sremski Karlovci by investing in those industries, the green industry, by investing in your mind. One quiet place next to the Danube, such as the Sremski Karlovci, we can transfer some of the IT technologies that are rapidly developing in Novi Sad to the Sremski Karlovci. Of course, we talked about tourism, but it shouldn't just be tourism, because the Sremski Karlovci are something more than tourism. The Sremish Carlovites mean our knowledge, science, meaning our spirituality that we must constantly speak of and cultivate our heritage. What I'm saying is, I think every elementary school student from Serbia has to and should visit the Sremski Karlovci. He should visit and climb the Guard, visit where Branko Radcevic is buried. If the Ukrainians cherish their poet and their identity through Taras Chevchenk, why don't we go through our Branko Radičević and the beautiful Guard where it's not hard to climb. In this way we guard our roots and preserve our history, and we are also obliged to remind all our children, our grandchildren of who we are, what we are and where we come from. You know, I'll be proud to take my grandkids to the Sremski Karlovci so they know who they are, what they are and where they come from. If we don't do that, we'll lose our identity in this general globalisation and uniformization. Of course, I'm proud of the fact that I'm going to vote for this law and all the other laws. As Social Democrats, of course, I support the laws on gender equality, the ban on discrimination, and I remind the Minister of Education that I also support the Law on High Schools, but with a note, Agenda 2030, secondary education must be mandatory and free of charge for all generations in our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6633	I thank Dr. Mijatovic. The word is made by Prime Minister Igor Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6634	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to refer to MP Mijatovic and to say a few words about community, about one principle I fought and fought and fought for, and which, in fact, symbolically is and contained in the law that we are talking about today, among other things. The community, which has made it possible primarily to speed up the development of the AP Vojvodina because we are on the programme of the accelerated development of the AP Vojvodina, and of course Vojvodina is an old famous Serbian name, should not in any way run away from that name, on the contrary, we should always boast with that name and share that opinion with Mr Mijatovic, in an intensive and economic development of the AP Vojvodina we have worked together in the past five years, the Government of Serbia, of course, through a whole series of laws, decisions, the Regional Government, the assembly of the AP Vojvodina and I think the results are visible. They are also visible in the part of the engagement that will ultimately lead to investment in those areas, and also in the area of protection of cultural and historical heritage with a great extent which we could not even dream of before, because the economy has managed to create additional value, to create money that I believe will, from the next financial year, be in office, among other things, to protect the cultural and historical heritage of the Sremski Karlovci, but not only of the Sremski Karlovci, but as MPs have already said, and many other protected continents and many other important historical and cultural continents not only in Vojvodina. What is now waiting for us is that, I believe, expressed will, and so far we have heard representatives of parliamentary groups who have declared themselves and say that their parliamentary groups will support, so that, of course, the National Assembly in general will support the adoption of the law, now it is very important that we welcome the ready-made committee provided for by this law, the committees that will bring the appropriate programme on the basis of which we will act, and in this sense it is of great importance that during the coming weeks and the coming months, I say that we are ready to welcome the next financial year, to prepare project documentation and to come up with the realisation of this great deal and, of course, that, in addition to that we are already preparing a project, indeed, the real word, the life of the Sremski Karls in full-scale hotels, that we are engaged in the creative work of preparing cultural events through, I believe, in the future of a new cultural centre, that part of cultural manifestations of culture and through the new culture, that we are created in Europe's new life, and in the new culture. There is, of course, tourism with all its aspects because it is official data that only in the part of religious tourism Sremski Karlovci are the starting point for tens of thousands of tourists visiting Srem, Vojvodina, especially the Sremski monastery. We plan to raise, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to a higher level the status of the existing Institute of Winemaking that exists within the Faculty of Agriculture in Sremski Karlovci and now we are thinking about whether we will form a scientific institute in relation to all the elements needed to form an institute or translate existing capacities into a centre that would be a national viticulture and winemaking centre and strengthen it in the work of laboratory equipment, in the work of experts who will be able to make reference routes for the development of winemaking and winemaking in the whole of our country. Of course, the great challenges in other areas, too, should not run away from the ideas that you have presented, such as information technologies, perhaps certain havs, microcells in the wider area of the Sremski Karlovci. All this awaits us if together, therefore, at the end of this exhibition, once again we gather the resources of the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina, local self-government, European funds and if we well devise a whole programme that should mean that in the future we are proud of the Sremski Karlovci and that in one practical plan we establish a link between history, between the dedication vow and the values they have left for us, between the present and the future in which we want to go. In that sense, there is no other alternative than community, joint work. I believe that in the future no other policy, even if one day different parties define political justice in various segments of our society, no policy will be able to succeed unless there are elements of community and joint appearance, at least around great and important values such as the Sremski Karlovci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6635	I thank the President of the District Government. Let's move on. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the People's Parliament, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6636	I would like to thank the Vice-President, the Honorable Ministers. At the very beginning, I would like to congratulate the Council of Europe for 20 years since the establishment of an office in Belgrade, noting that the Council of Europe is a roof institution for respect for human rights and the rule of law in general. On today's agenda, we have two laws that improve human rights and freedoms and the basis for the adoption and the Proposal for a Law on Gender Equality, as well as the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Discrimination, is contained in the Regulation of Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which guarantees equality between women and men and the development of a policy of equal opportunities. I believe that as a society we have matured today, without any prejudice in this high house, we are having an open discussion of the proposed laws and we are together to look at and create modern Serbia in which we will not need legal provisions to respect, respect all the subjects of our society. Unity Serbia believes we are becoming a society of equal opportunities for all. That equality can't be true if we don't have women who are equal partners. I don't want to point out that a woman should be in a certain place, just because she's a woman, but because she deserves it by her work and engagement. We can't deny that to any woman. There are colleagues, as well as all who participate in Serbia's social life and should be honest to acknowledge, accept and support the woman who has given her maximum and who has advocated being in this very home today, to be in the post of minister or any other post. As long as a woman is a wolf and we don't have that female solidarity, maybe our biggest problem isn't colleagues or partners who don't take it equally. You have an example. A woman who is a representative of a political party, who goes through Serbia, comes in front of a city administration, public administration and says – e, all the women who are employed here are employed by getting together well, not to use any more vulgar terms. And what kind of picture are we sending? Is it encouragement for all those girls, women who want to get involved in politics, to be an equal part of this society? I'm not going to give any more meaning to it, but maybe we should appeal to each other to be a little more solid and not label each other so easily, because behind every woman, there may be a mother, a sister, someone's daughter, or whatever. Unique Serbia truly supports women's participation, not only in politics but in all spheres of life. The Law on Gender Gender Equality was introduced in September 2009 and it brought closer to achieving equality between women and men and promoting equal opportunities policy. When I'm in the field of public and private employment, when I mention employment, I want to touch something that may be the biggest stumbling block when we talk about equality between men and women, which is the amount of profit that men and women receive. According to the Republic Employment Service in Serbia, Serbia may be with the lowest pay gap in Europe, while the average wage difference between men and women in Europe is up to 15%. For example, women in Sweden earn 5% less, while in the UK, it is 8%. If those receipts equalised the global economy could be richer by $160 billion. I don't want to draw conclusions, he imposes himself, which is that giving women space leads to a richer society. It also encourages the global report on gender equality, which pointed to the narrowing of the gender gap and the reduction of gender inequality, and these data differ from country to country. For example, Iceland is a country that has managed to remove even 86% of the difference between men and women, and for me it has been a personal surprise that Nicaragua and Rwanda are among the leading countries where gender equality is best applied and have better performances than many leading European countries. I would take the opportunity to commend, and your ministry, Mrs Comic, has been commended by the Council of Europe for introducing a concept of unanimity and here I mean the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, and it refers to the separation of people based on racial, religious and national belongings. You have legally defined this term through article 2, and unfortunately, as a parent, I was disappointed with the knowledge, and there is a minister of education, that in some schools of primary education that constitute a legal obligation for all Serbian children to attend, regardless of their nationality or religion, it happens that parents want to write and even in the big cities of Serbia. I think in Nis, at a elementary school, it's recently happened, that parents want to write their children just because members of the Roma national minorities go to that school. Now, here's every single one of us who's here, who's sitting here and who's a parent or who's got a close child, imagine your child being so discriminated against. Of course you wouldn't accept that, that it would be difficult for you, because in this very home we are in favour of a society of equal opportunities, for everything we are guaranteed by the Constitution. Since I don't have any more time, I just want to praise that Article 14 allows the Trustees of native equality to have their own assistant, and thus we have shown that the gender equality and all the problems we face in this area, we want to be resolved, that equality is not only a legal obligation, but something we live with, that is how we are brought up, and that we respect others, as we respect ourselves. I read it in law and it was not clear to me one thing, you might be able to explain it to me, Minister. It is a provision relating to Article 58 and Article 77 which prescribes financial resources for the organisation and implementation of specialised services, and that means specialised services for perpetrators of violence that will be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and on the other hand you have victims of violence that will be all the programmes related to them and all that support, I mean the safe house and crisis centres, they will be financed from local budgets. Now, could we have done this a little differently, and are we giving this regulation less support? I don't think so, but just to explain to me does that mean less financial support and safe houses and crisis centers? Thank you. In voting day, JS will support all proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6637	I would like to thank the Vice President of the National Assembly. The word is made by Minister Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6638	Thank you. In a few you've described well. So the point is that we think that we should invest both in the prevention of violence and in working with the perpetrator of violence because no matter what violence is choice, so violence is always a free choice, you don't have to pour verbal garbage into public space. You don't have to hit, you don't have to swear, you don't have to kill, you choose. Every violence is a free choice and a list of excuses for every violence is completely empty. What happens in our families is that violence is chosen. Since family relations are both delicate and often tragic and traumatic, then we believe that the Republic of Serbia's budget should be invested in the prevention of violence, in eliminating the consequences of violence when it comes to the victim of violence and in the general system of building specialised services when it comes to helping victims of violence. Why is it not clear that the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina, the province of Vojvodina and local self-government are at stake? Because you, formally, what we call safe houses, don't have a clear foothold in the law. You have something called temporary accommodation or something. We want this law and its reference provisions simply to form a system where the state will take over funding and "safe houses" and prevention of violence and where this service will be opened to those who are otherwise paid by the state, but have no knowledge, skills, resources, such as the most common centres for social work, and also to those who have knowledge, experience, resources, and do so as civil society. So we don't want to make any lack of advantage or extra advantage for anyone who's willing to provide custody services for victims of violence by caring for their mental state, removing the consequences of violence, helping victims to find work, whether women or men and above all children, victims, witnesses or participants of violence. An additional regulation that will make it perfectly clear to you and give credibility to my words is the Social Entrepreneurship Act we hope for in the third quarter of this year, because our goal is to ensure that victims of violence are in good hands, our goal is to stop project financing. You know, a lot of good things happened in Serbia because somewhere in the EU, in the IPA Fund, somewhere in a fund to prevent violence, somewhere in some part of the world that deals with freedoms of rights, protecting victims of violence, there's money that you can compete for because you have knowledge, skills, will and activity of civil society, or you're centres for social work, or you're a government program of Vojvodina, or who can compete, and then you have a recovery of damage done to victims of violence that lasts as much money from that source. What we want is for the provisions of this law and for the perpetrators of violence and victims of violence to say that these are our citizens, all of us, we are obliged to provide them with evidence by agreement in the Assembly, by agreement in the Ministry of Finance for the Republic Budget in the Government of Vojvodina for the provincial budget in local self-government that by means of budgets collected from all citizens, we will try to build a system of "safe houses". If you ask me what I'd like most? I wish we didn't need any safe houses, but it's a denial of reality. So what we can do is plan from the budgets that are available as much money as we need to save one woman. Statistics tell you that about 30 women and about 10 men are killed annually in domestic violence in Serbia. This means that 17 women still live in Serbia on 18 May who will be all dead on 31 December 2021, as someone will kill them. Three men were killed, which means seven men living in Serbia today, who will be dead on December 31st 2021. The idea of our organisation in the country is to do everything we can to make money out of the budget take responsibility and provide stable sources of funding for civil society at all levels of the budget, but for both sectors and for the prevention of violence and for the recovery and elimination of the consequences of violence on the victim. It's so imaginary, these are the reference provisions of the Social Entrepreneurship Act. We know that one part of civil society is particularly dissatisfied with the right or without, in dialogue with them is to establish this because we even believe that the state can provide services to prevent violence and protect women from violence. We think there should be dialogue on this and see what civil society refuses the right to have in social work centres and specialised institutions of people who could help on projects to reduce the total amount of violence in society. Maybe not, money is there for whoever can, because Serbia is a country that will assume a commitment to overall reducing violence in society to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6639	I thank the Minister for Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. The word is Marija Jevdić, an explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6640	Thank you. I'd just like to agree with everything you've said. I agree that prevention is a huge step in preventing violence and that while I was reading this law, I was a little more interested in providing specialized services for those who committed violence and I saw that in some European countries it was a little different. This is a good step, I said, it will show practice where we sin and there is always room to change and to supplement something, but some European countries have come to this solution that those who have committed violence, besides having to go to mandatory psychotherapy meetings, have this kind of treatment, are also obliged to pay for a stay if someone from their family, or those over whom they have committed violence has been placed in a "safe house". So, I agree with you to prevent, a huge step towards preventing violence and, yes, we'll see through practice, whether we'll supplement what you've been saying today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6641	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6642	Thank you. We sincerely hope that the committee in charge will closely monitor how the law is applied, but of course all MPs who are interested in monitoring whether or not the law is well enough and whether in a local way and we in the ministry and in Vojvodina, whether the law is well enough... It's the whole idea, so you're more than welcome in the months ahead of us until they're in full compliance with all the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6643	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6644	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My great respect for the present Madam Minister and Mr Minister with your associates. Dear and esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, we have today started a session whose agenda covers important areas and issues. It seems to me that the area of human rights dominates. I want to say that there is, in my opinion, no successful society, organisationally and actionally capable, unless democratic relations are perfected and unity in society strengthens. In this area, regulation and enabling the maximum exercise of human rights in the country is one of the priority things. In achieving and leading to the highest level of human rights, it seems to me that this law, or the addition of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, is the best step that has been taken. In that sense, all praises, Madam Minister, for the offer of such a built-up law, because it is a strikeable, key thing in removing obstacles to the full achievement of human rights and homogenisation of the country's positive and unity. That's how I look at it. I think what you have offered us is much more precise, which is logical, now she has said, it seems to me, and colleague Jevdić, in another way, every law that we adopt, enters a new or upgraded, it goes into practice and brings it to us, or offers to build it through acquired experience in its application. That's right about this, but I think it's much more precise, much more concretely formulated very many of the provisions in this law so far, which is the first quality. The second thing, in the proposed proposal for this law, is a lot of new provisions that regulate what was missed in the previous, or applicable law, or fully and finally regulate certain matter which has been affected, but not sufficiently, by the applicable law. I think it's particularly important that the ban on discrimination is regulated in different environments and living circumstances. So we no longer have, at least to me, I may not have been able to see everything, but there are no more questions that go into this problem of resolving discrimination without being treated and affected by this law. Practice will show if we're enough, whether we're in the right place, so we'll finish it and improve it. I think it is very important that between many issues this law regulates the public authorities' relationship with discrimination issues, it is very important. Moreover, it is also important that it is regulated enough and to a good extent, it seems to me in the right way, the relationship between employers and employees. Then, she was properly affected by the problem of child discrimination and discrimination against older people. I think that, in addition to the many women mentioned today in general, it seems to me, the two structures of citizens who can at least defend themselves, I would say. The most significant or most difficult forms or the status of those protected by the law I think are very harsh and to the extent necessary wording in this proposal and that there is in the law a lot of what is regulated by the strictest degree or the highest degree, so you have a lot of members of this law or of the positions in that article that begin with "prohibited". I attach special importance to that. In my opinion, it can go to court tomorrow, but it's a difference in treatment and the difference is seeing citizens who are inclined to take steps of discrimination towards someone. It is different if it stands—it is necessary and the other is if it stands—it is forbidden. There's no thinking there. He can't think if he's going to do some sort of thing now, so he's going to avoid it easily. That's where you know what it is. So I think a lot of other things, too, I took this as an example, in law very clearly, precisely. As far as the Commissioner is concerned, I have to say, I don't quite understand his function, his role, because he's been placed in the Assembly by this law, and he's been treated very well. The Credentials Act deals with 10 members, I think, from 30th to 38th. I think that's where we stayed unsaid. In addition to all this, the law has put an emphasis on preventing discrimination, which has been given rights discriminated against by complaints, lawsuits, etc. and what is regulated under the law and the rights damaged in the field of discrimination. At the end of this part, I would like to say something, probably all of you have followed, these days have been made public, and unfortunately also from the Assembly, from us MPs, through the media many objections to this law, which, as you can see, has neither come to this day nor come to Parliament, nor have MPs had the opportunity to declare themselves about it. This is regulated by the team in public statements that this law, as proposed, will prevent further modernisation of relations in the area, i.e. it is choking and shortening the current traditional relations in the area, when it comes to discrimination. Can you imagine, please? Imagine, asphyxiating tradition, well, I guess we want to change something that's entered into ordinary law and that's considered normal that there's discrimination in every society and everything that goes with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6645	Bringing the end, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6646	Please, just one more thing, it has also escalated another thing in public these days, which is that in advance the Law on Gender Equality is condemned, because he allegedly, let me put it this way, even that expression is used in one place, will ruin the language of Serbian. I don't understand these people. So much, since I don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6647	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word is from the vice president of the National Assembly, Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6648	Thank you, Your Honor. The presidency, Vice-President, the Prime Minister of the province, a respected minister with co-workers, as the distinguished representative of the SVM parliamentary group, Mr Balint Pastor, when he spoke of a bill, announced I about the others. On behalf of the SVM MP, I will first start by going on about amendments to the law on secondary education and education, because we believe that this is one of the important steps in establishing an extension of the digitalisation system, as we have heard, in an educated system. This is a new round in the system of digitisation in education, which is also used in preschool enrollment, primary education institutions. Here it simplifies the actual application of students for admission exams and for enrolment in high school. It is very commendable that in the eGovernment system, it gradually expands and harmonizes with the real needs of various resors, as well as the population, so that really users, in fact parents themselves in the comfort of their apartments, simply, at home report their children without standing in long lines. I'm saying, it's very important that it's kind of equalized that it expands slowly, from preschools, basics, and now we're talking about high schools. We saw recently when the distinguished prime minister, Deputy Prime Minister, minister, when they represented my high school and when they said that now without delay, they said, in seven different places, we simply managed to report our children for the admission exam to certain specialised schools and art high schools. Newspapers in the special management of the database are that what is extremely important for us are data on sensitive groups, which can provide certain measures of affirmative action when enrolment in high school, or positive discrimination, as we know, students of Roma nationality, or students with disabilities or disability, and in fact, these proposed changes and additions suggest complementing the existing All of us know that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a declaration of nationality is voluntary, but yet a unique information system of education, contains all relevant data which SVM has repeatedly spoken about in this high home and which we consider to be extremely significant, and these are native languages, which are the language in which that person attends teaching. Of course, that these data can also point to nationality by introducing a single educational number introduces a realistic view of the data analysis of the education system related to national minorities, which we certainly support. To remind us, we believe that a major step in the development of official use of language and letter of national minorities is the fact that the electronic system of enrolment, i.e. keeping records such as eVrtić, eGovernment, eStudent, eDnevnik and so on, and also recently presented the portal "My High School", they actually all allow the use of online platforms and in the languages of national minorities, and in all eight languages of national minorities who are realising the entire teaching, i.e. in those languages that are in official use in a particular municipality. It's really one of the plots and SVM, and here I have to mention our colleague Maria Vicek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. In fact, the last few years, as mentioned in the opening presentation, have simply created a very good co-operation between the Office for Information Technologies, the Electronic Administration of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education of Science and Technological Development itself, which we in SVM consider to be a good example and that it can be an example that should somehow spread to other segments of the eGovernment so that all segments of the platform are available in the languages of national minorities. In reports on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in the process of Eurointegration and the implementation of action plans for Chapters 23 and 24, the European Commission, as I mentioned today in a brief statement as chairman of the Committee on European Integration, assessed the need for amendments to the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, as well as the adoption of a completely new Law on Gender Equality in order to bring them fully into line with the legal assets of the EU. For this reason, we are extremely pleased with this debate today, especially me, which we have completed before us and the proposal for a law on gender equality. I mentioned this this morning that the applicable Gender Equality Act was not sufficiently in line with the legal assets of the EU, but not with the approved international agreements and provisions of the relevant European Commission directives, as well as the generally accepted standards, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women, back in 1979 and so on. Istanbul Conventions, the Council of Europe Convention to prevent violence against women and domestic violence. It's a 2011 convention whose anniversary we recently celebrated. The UN Competent Contracting Body for Economic, Social, Cultural Rights, as well as Human Rights stressed the need for institutional strengthening of protection against discrimination, etc. The ECI or the European Commission against racism and intolerance, within its various reports and guidelines, has indeed pointed to the importance of strengthening the capacity of trustees to protect equality by extending the trustee's competence. The definition of segregation. The segregation shall be any act to separate a natural or legal person without an objective and reasonable justification from another person or a group of persons on the basis of a personal property. Voluntary separation from other persons based on personal property does not constitute segregation. This area is defined in the education and education system in a way that is not considered to be segregating the separation of students in the group, department, or establishment if this is due to the specificity of the institution in accordance with the law. For the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, segregation is any act, action or failure to perform an action, or any unfounded separation of members of a particular group from other persons or groups of persons. Why am I talking about it? It is particularly important for the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians to really take care of the context and understanding of the essence of the concept of segregation, so that we do not come to the situation that the right of members of national minorities to education in their native language is compromised or, God forbid, characterized as a congregation, especially considering that in our system in 189 education and education institutions, education is achieved in one of the eight languages of members of national minorities. Eight national communities in the Republic of Serbia exercise the right to entire education in their native language. This number can also be extended to 16 national communities that actually attend groups of electoral programme native language – speech, with elements of national culture in primary schools. The UN Committees on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and Human Rights have indicated the need to strengthen national gender equality mechanisms, eliminate gender-based discrimination, eliminate domestic violence, as well as implement specific measures to increase women's representation in the state administration, local self-government and generally in decision-making processes. The right to equality and non-discrimination is a pre-condition for equal opportunities for all, including through the development of anti-discrimination mechanisms for the implementation of measures in the field of prohibition of discrimination, institutional frameworks for the achievement of gender equality, the establishment of a system of records, extremely important for the protection of discrimination and gender-sensitive statistics, supervision of the application of laws, as well as the application of different analyses and methodologies. The prohibition of discrimination is bound to guarantee certain rights and freedoms. I would remind all of us that all reports by international organisations, the European Commission, the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, confirms that when we talk about the area of fundamental rights, that the institutional legislative framework is good for respect of fundamental rights, but that it is necessary to ensure its consistent and effective implementation, that independent human rights institutions should be strengthened and several times underlined, guarantee their full independence. As is known, in line with the European Union's recommendations, a quota was proposed in 2020, then along with the struggle and our former fellow Members of Parliament and all of us, the Women's Parliamentary Network, a 40% quota was introduced for the less represented sex. Because everyone is now asking what this law is about, when we talk about elections and women's candidates, the National Assembly was at the beginning of last year, so on February 8th, passed a law amending the Law on selecting MPs, as well as the Law on amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections, and, as we all know, we already had elections, based on these laws, the Law on selecting Members of People's Parliaments, provides that there must be at least 40% less of the gender represented on the election list, which means that among every five candidates at least two candidates should be representatives of the less represented gender. The same is the situation with the Law on Local Elections, which states that there must also be 40% of the less represented gender on the list, also among every five candidates on these lists, at least two candidates must be members of the gender that is less represented. So, as far as this is concerned, this law doesn't bring the papers, it strengthens all of this, although, as I can see, everyone's a little scared. The paper refers to the introduction of penalties for political parties. And this existed in the current law, but political parties must also take care of how many representatives of the less represented sex in their management structures will have. Slowly to conclude, certainly the MP group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians supports that the draft law on gender equality provides for the creation of equal opportunities for participation and equal treatment of women and men in a very broad area – 22 different areas, as well as measures to combat and prevent all forms of gender-based violence, violence against women and general violence. We are pleased that after 2009, after nearly 12 years, we have come to an amendment to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, and we certainly commend the new step of the Ministry of Registration itself and the application for the admission exam, digitisation in all areas, but, however, we must always take care of the specificity of national minorities. We are especially pleased to have another proposal from Vojvodina that will certainly be accepted here in this high house. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6649	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6650	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister of the Province, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Education, Education, Science and Technological Development, you have many, ministers, areas within one ministry, respected Minister Komic, respected representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with all due respect and with no intention to minimise and reduce the importance of legislative proposals, since today we have five legislative proposals on the agenda, but it is impossible, given the time that the parliamentary group is talking about all five legislative proposals, and I will put an accent on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Middle Education and Education. I'd like to make a suggestion and a suggestion. Serbia shows clear determination and determination when it comes to the European pathway, and when it comes to European integration. And there is no task on the way to European integration, which Serbia has not successfully realised. On the other hand, you know about the success of European integration itself depends on whether we have a well-intentioned partnership on the other hand, because it always takes two, not double standards, double arches, but always takes two, not for Pristina to always look through the fingers, and for Belgrade to always be the one to blame for something. So whether Serbia, therefore, is our intensity and our ultimate goal, the main strategic goal, is to become a full member of the EU. That's absolutely not controversial. This determination and determination we also confirmed here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because for the first time in practice we discussed the European Commission's report and through the conclusions that we have made, we have just given a wind in the back of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the path of European integration. We never, like Serbia, were afraid of negotiations when it came to European integration, but we never spoke out of fear. Whether Serbia and when Serbia will be a member and will be a full member of the EU, and we hope they will, but not only depends on what Serbia does and does, what the institutions in Serbia do and do. It depends, above all, on Brussels, on EU members, on the situation in the EU, on how divided they are or not. Why am I saying this? We should think about it sometime, when we talk about legal proposals. Some things and some laws should be adopted, not because of the EU, but because of the citizens of Serbia. And that's where I'm going to stop, so I don't further develop the story, because I don't think that the moment we face the biggest health challenge, whose end, I hope, is very fast, we don't need laws that are going to be any kind of division in society, or we need any kind of division in society. Now, as far as I'm concerned, Mr. Ruzic, your law, so the bill on amendments and additions to the law on secondary education and education, you know, knowledge is power, Francis Bacon said, and Nelson Mendela said education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world. The truth is that in both, without knowledge, no individual can advance, but without knowledge, society in general cannot advance. Knowledge is acquired through learning, through the process of education and education, of formal and informal, lifelong learning, which is existentially needed, I would say, every man. Learning helps us build character, develop thinking and intelligence. Education is a privilege that every person should value too much. Investment in education is the capital investment of every society, as the company rests on knowledge. Knowledge is a condition of every progress. Education is expensive, but ignorance is even more expensive. Neither man nor society reach their maximum without knowledge or education. So the message is only one thing – the future is in knowledge and should be invested in education, because education is the future. Serbia, which has a tradition of education, has been going through various periods and many educational reforms since the time of St. Sava, but has always invested in education, recognising primarily the role of knowledge for the progress of society and recognising the role of knowledge for the country's progress in general. Especially today in a world of modern technologies, Serbia is looking for its place by investing in education, investing in personnel who will be able to meet the challenges of time, as education is a strategic definition of Serbia, education is a strategic definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia. As I know, and as far as I know, recently Mr. Minister, a public debate has been concluded on the draft new Education and Education Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia by 2030. Otherwise, the current strategy for the period since 2020 was adopted in 2012 at a time when the minister of education was respected by Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, who is today the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. The new education strategy by 2030 is a continuation of such a definition and a clear indicator of the country's attitude towards the importance of the educational system for the development of society. The new strategy should, above all, respond to the challenges of the new era and contribute to the construction of a modern, recognizable education system that will be among the highest-ranking systems in terms of quality of education programmes, teaching activities, research and, of course, professional work, which is of paramount importance and importance. In the context of improving the quality of education, today we are talking about amendments to the Law on Middle Education. The backbone of these changes is certainly the creation, and you spoke of it, the legal framework for the introduction of a state degree at the end of secondary education. State graduation represents a major change in the education system of the Republic of Serbia and therefore requires basic preparations in each segment of its realisation, so that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and education foresees a shift in the introduction of state graduation, practically for two years. The Commission for the Monitoring of Activity, the introduction of a state graduation in the education system formed by Minister Branko Ruzic, has decided to extend the time interval to prepare for the implementation of the state graduation. This decision came first and foremost from an analysis of the current situation and the circumstances caused by the Covid 19 pandemic and its impact on the education system, so that it takes an additional time to see all aspects for such a significant change. For these reasons, for two more school years, the introduction of state graduations for students of three-year secondary schools is extended, the school of public education is being introduced in 2022/2023. in 2023, and in 2024. The introduction of a state degree should ensure greater justice and equality of all students who obtain a certificate of completed high school or qualify for higher education institutions. The current inequality of prom exams that differ from school to school will be overcome by just standardized tests for a whole generation of students and should take special care of this, because we have a bitter experience when it comes to tests in the period behind us. The introduction of state graduation as tickets for enrolment of higher education institutions will ensure the efficiency of the system, transparency of the laying process, and above all justice and equal rights of all students who intend to continue their education in higher education institutions. State graduation will significantly reduce the cost of students and their families, and increase the chances, which is essential for continuing schooling. As regards other amendments and additions, they are also aimed at improving the quality of education, meaning the harmonisation of the law on secondary education and education with the provisions of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and refers to operational and technical and records of jobs, more specifically, the introduction of the prescribed registers and data conducted by institutions in the field of education through the established portal "My High School". All activities related to the completion of primary school, as well as enrolment in high school this school year will be conducted for the first time through this portal without submission and one paper, which is also of exceptional importance and importance. So digitalized applications have been introduced to pass the admission exam and enrolment in high school, so that this simplification of procedures can be considered a good effect of digitisation and e-government. Here I would like to commend Minister Ruzic, who, in his capacity as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, was extremely committed to digitising the public administration, because digitalisation was one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, one of the backbones of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Ana Brnabic, or the introduction of an electronic administration that simplifies all procedures before the authorities and all the institutions of the system. Speaking of digitisation, I would like to remind myself that the Serbian government has provided funds for digital classrooms and 10,000 classrooms so far, and it is planned to be, as far as I know, 35,000. Also, through the project "Commanding the Digital Facility for the Most Disabilities of Children", which the ministry implements in co-operation with UNICEF, and with EU financial support, computers and tablets have been provided for 30 schools in which they are educated, above all, Roma population students, which is also commendable. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is conducting the Project of inclusive pre-school education and education, aimed at improving the availability of quality and fairness of pre-school education, through increasing the number of places in pre-school institutions, increasing the coverage of children from sensitive social groups. Mr. Minister, I'm going to use the opportunity as a patriot's place to remind you of a visit you had in Valjevo a few days ago, and I hope that together we'll build a new kindergarten in Valjevo, because we have over 400 young people waiting to enrol in kindergarten. Since school 2009/2010. the year, when Minister of Education was Minister Dr. Zarko Obradovic, a free textbook project is being implemented for students from first to eighth grade. Since that year, funds have been provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget for the project, and 700 million dinars have been allocated this year. We know that the Ministry is actively working to ensure good conditions for learning and working in all education institutions, special attention is paid to university education and, given that many universities in Serbia do not have enough capacity, that there has been no more extensive and significant reconstruction and reconstruction in the past period, through a comprehensive programme of construction and reconstruction, it will ensure that some universities get their own buildings, expand capacities, but that unique complexes that will be built in their composition of several related universities and institutes. All this shows that the ministry is trying to contribute to raising the quality of education of students, students and teachers. Now, Mr. Minister, since last time I spoke, you were not in the O.R., you were your associate, I hope he passed it on to you, and I passed it on to Valjev, I'd like you to be, since we're all talking about decentralisation and I think decentralisation is a very important question, I also told you in Valjev, let's try to take the first step in decentralisation of higher education. As I come from western Serbia, I'm proud, as a proud patriot's place, here, now we're going to have a bypass, we're going to have fast lanes, investors are coming, so we have all the preconditions to make, Mr. Minister, the University of Western Serbia. Let the center be in Valyev. I know that the university needs three colleges, that the accreditation process is a serious process, I had opportunities once upon a time and that I participate in the accreditation process, but I am convinced and I also know that Valjevo in western Serbia has enough educational, professional staff who is ready and is willing to work in colleges and who is also willing to participate in the accreditation process. I know it's not possible to do this year and this term, but it's important to take the first step. It is important to make long-term goals and it is always important to raise the scale to new tasks, to set new tasks, because it is good for the future of education. I said a little bit - investment in education is the future. Imagine, children from Bajina Basta, from Bogatic and Love, so they'll be studying more, say, in Valjevo or if there's one college in Šapec, we don't have a problem with that. It will be cheaper for them, for their families, than for them to study in Belgrade. I know it's not a simple process, but I believe you'll have the understanding and the right way of looking at the proposal. Among other things, we went one step further, I talked about it with your associate, so, among other things, we analyzed what interests are at this point most interesting for age after the fourth year of high school and these are mostly agriculture, pharmaceutical industry and ecology, when it comes to Western Serbia, which is perfectly logical that agriculture is the first place, because western Serbia is the agricultural area, and Valjevo is the city that has one of the best, if not the best, let's not be to praise my city, but one of the best secondary schools in Serbia. I would also like to once again commend the effective work of the ministry during the emergency and during the Kvid fallout - 19. Since the first moment of declaration of state of emergency, online teaching has been organised for all levels of education, thanks again, first of all, to the results achieved in digitisation. The ministry managed to provide the same quality of education for every child in Serbia and thanks to the commitment and efforts of educational workers, whom we are grateful for making great efforts, combining online and live teaching, which was not easy at all. Finally, I would take the opportunity to ask the minister – when can we expect the draft law on amendments to the Higher Education Law to enter the assembly procedure, which should enable the national accreditation body to return to full membership of the European Association for the Security of Quality in Higher Education, as well as the proposal for a law on student education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6651	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6652	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. Dear representatives of the ministry, I also welcome the president of the province's government, Mr Mirovic, who is not currently in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's agenda is a very important bill. We have heard in the work so far, both from the resolute ministers, therefore, from the proposing representatives and from the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Mr Atlagic, all those arguments as to why the proposed solutions should be adopted. I would like to stress that we strongly support the proposed act and that in the day of voting we will vote for the adoption of them, because we believe that in a high-quality and comprehensive way they regulate the area of secondary education and education, as well as the areas of the ban on discrimination and gender equality and particularly the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and the development of the Sremski Karlovac, which Mirovic and counterpart Marko Atlagic spoke of. I believe that the proposed laws will be adopted unanimously because they are gender equality and a ban on discrimination, I would say, civilizational fluids, as well as that as a society we have long matured in this regard and that we are leading a policy of equal opportunities both when it comes to women and when it comes to men. And that's what's good. What is not good is that today's session of the National Assembly is passing into the atmosphere of the campaign, the fierce campaign against Alexander Vukic, carried out by some media close to the tycoons, which are being served, I would say, with the worst possible lies both on Alexander Vukic and on members of his family, and in order to do political damage. It seems that they are very nervous lately, because if you look at it in just a few days, so in just a few days, we have had a shameful attack on Danil Vukic, as the son of the president, which my colleague, Djordje Todorovic, spoke of in detail in the part of the session when parliamentary questions were being asked, that the day after that the monstrous threats to our Vice President of the National Assembly to the Government of Orlic, so the threats of hanging, very serious threats, and that only a day, two afterwards, on the "New S", on the portal "New S" would be published a cartoon on which the Vucica is literally referred to as a fascist, therefore, literally called a fascist. Look at what it looks like. There's Alexander Wolfiche on the cartoon. I don't know if the cameraman is going to increase this so the citizens can see it. So on cartoons is Aleksandar Vukic holding Draž Mihailovic, Ljotic and Hitler. And the text reads this, "Wolf as a pronunciation," "I don't give to Draž, I don't give to Ljotic, I don't give to Hitler." Look, please, as long as this madness goes. Now I ask you, can any of this go any worse? Is there anything worse than this? As long as it can go. We're talking about a ban on discrimination. Here, I'm asking you now – is Alexander Wolfe discriminated against? Is there discrimination against Alexander Vukic, when it is obvious that everything is absolutely allowed in the fight against Alexander Vukic? Was Vukić discriminated when any lie could be pronounced and published in the context of an attack on Alexander Vukic? Every lie, every fiction is allowed if it's against Alexander Vukic. Every libel is allowed, every threat is allowed, every insult, even the most monstrous one, like this one I just showed, is allowed if it's against Alexander Vukic. After this, there was another campaign against Vukic over the same Gilas media, only this time much more perfident and much dirtier, therefore more corrupt. So, after visiting the president of the state on one television, which pointed to some details about the crimes of the Belivuk crime group and the way they committed those crimes, the campaign against him was currently launched, because, imagine, he dared to tell details. He dared to point out to the citizens the truth, though, the creepy truth, the creepy details, but the true details, unfortunately. He dared to do that. In a moment, nothing matters anymore. So it stops being important that the state has arrested and perhaps the most organised, possibly the most dangerous criminal group in these areas, not only in Serbia, but in the region, it no longer matters. It doesn't matter how they commit crimes, the hardest possible murders, the most monstrous murders. And it doesn't matter anymore. It doesn't matter that, according to the organised crime group, it also wanted to overthrow legal authority in Serbia and attack Serbia's leadership, and it doesn't matter anymore. Now it's only important whether the Wolf was allowed or should have talked about the details of it or not. It's the only topic. Here's what it looks like, so the citizens can see. The “New S” portal on May 14 says – Vučić's morbid show on TV First. The day after that, the "New S" portal again says – the morbid Vukic even mentioned 17 times the cheavapee of human flesh. You know, they're very sensitive. They can't accept something like that. They're disgusted. Well, then the "New S" portal says – reality Belivuk, why do we need to know all the details? That's all that matters now. Now it doesn't matter what the crime was committed, it's important whether the Wolf is bold or not to give details. The portal “Nova S” says, May 15 – psychiatrist and psychologist about Vukic’s story about the people who are so lonely. When you look at who the psychiatrist and psychologist are, then you come to the sad truth. Their psychiatrist is Sanda Raskovic Ivić. It's a psychiatrist to them. It's just that they forgot to say that he's also the vice president of the People's Party, the party of that Vuk Jeremic. And their psychologist is Trebeshian, therefore, Vuk Jeremic, a number of traitors, vice president of his party. And now she's meant to say something. And Žarko Trebišanin who says – Vukić wants to appear as a savior. Look out, Žarko Trebišanin is a DS activist. At this point, as we speak, he's a DS activist and now he's as well-timed as a psychologist to evaluate something. Let's move on. "Directly," that's that Gilas portal, May 14th, says – to God Vucic's morbid show about human kebabs. Well, then "directly", the portal again says – Vukic is afraid to manipulate the public, so they called as the talker of crisis communication experts from Croatia Krešimir Macan. They can't find anyone here in Serbia, so they found a Kresimir Macan in Croatia, right, Macan, Professor? So to anyone who thinks of hitting on the Wolf, anything can, anyone is welcome in that flock, no matter who it is or where it comes from, etc. Well, then "Directly", May 16th, he says, disgusted our kevapes, and this morning a burek. I'm just reading your headlines. Then we have the N1, nothing without the N1, says -- the week after which the kevapi won't be what they were. The daily newspaper "Today" or as some would say "danosoid", says – Jeremic, two points, Vucic's mental wind worries, Serbia is heading in an extremely dangerous direction. Only when his mental storm is at the level of both his and those international criminals Patrick Ho and his other friends in the white world. So, if you remember, this is the same thing that happened when a few months ago a group of Veljka Belivuka were arrested, so these same media were dealing with the same subject. So, they were dealing exclusively with whether the president of Serbia was supposed to show those photos or not to show photographs, rather than the fact that the state had arrested and destroyed the most organised criminal group in these areas as part of the fight against crime. So it's an attempt to devise the fight against crime, demeaning the results achieved and relativating the crimes and criminals that have happened, and that's what's very dangerous. I believe that Serbian citizens have the right to know the full truth about every aspect of the fight against the mafia and crime, which leads the country with Alexander Vukic, however much some media have tried not to do so. For the very end, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the President of the Czech Republic, Mr Zeman, who today, in the presence of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, sent strong, warm and brotherly support to the Serbian people in the Republic of Serbia and apologized for NATO bombing and Serbs will certainly not forget it and how Aleksandar Vukic said so - from now on the Czech Republic will consider it a brotherly people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6653	Thank you. Does Milletic want the word? Yeah. ) The remaining time is about one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6654	Thank you. Dear Ministers, Mr Ruzic, Honorable Minister Mrs Comic, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I was elected on the list of Alexander Vukić – For our children and I represent the United Peasant Party. I, having very short time, will say only a few things, and in particular our people living in the country, live from the village, especially for our women living in the country. They need much more help, they need much more support and I can say that they are in a much more difficult situation than other people living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we can work together on this subject, on this subject we must work much more and provide better living conditions for these women who live in the country, who work from morning till tomorrow and who certainly do not have the same opportunities, the same rights as women in the city. So in that part, we have to work together. Otherwise, as far as this law is concerned, specifically about education, for secondary education, I would say that this is very positive, that this is good, and there is a problem specifically for municipalities that have a small number of children, who need a certain number of students in order to be one class and we have to work on making the Ministry of Education more flexible, especially for such municipalities that have one high school, have several departments, and they don't have enough children to type for, say, a direction. Therefore, distinguished ministers and the first Deputy Prime Minister, we expect to continue our co-operation with your Ministry, and to you, Mrs Comic, I think we need to put an accent on our women in the country who are really very hard to live on and we need to give them more support, with all due respect for all these other matters that concern both gender equality and discrimination. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6655	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6656	At today's session, among other things, we are considering the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Middle Education, which we from the SDPS will support. What the law provides is the start of national graduation and, also, the law opens up the possibility for the school, if it cannot organise another foreign language teaching, due to insufficient number of students, to organise a combined group at a level of two or more different classes. Schools with students with special abilities for philosophical sciences can organize a combined group at a level of two or more classes with at least 12 students. I believe that the Ministry proposes this amendment in the law to raise the quality of the second foreign language teaching. The question is how functional it will be, but the answer to that question will be given by teachers who will not only be a great challenge, but also an additional burden, and all in order to raise the quality of teaching, as I have already said. With that in mind, I would like to take advantage of the presence of Minister of Education, Mr. Ruzic, and ask one question. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you if you are familiar with the information that the sports hall "Svetozar Markovic" in Brodarevo, the municipality of Prepolje, has been closed for a year and eight months? On this occasion, I would like to say that the construction of the hall started in 2015 and ended in 2018. The facility is 980 square meters, built with funds from the Prepolje municipality's budget of 56 million dinars. The use of authorisation was granted on 1 September 2018 when the sports hall was released into operation. The primary school in Brodarev is attended by 450 students. Besides them, sports clubs were used by the gym, as well as a large number of citizens for recreational activities. Hall was in office until 5 October 2019 when it was closed. What I want to ask is whether the Ministry of Education in Cooperation with, say, local self-government can do something to reopen the hall, all in order to improve the teaching of physical and health education, as the fastest basis for the development of sport and preservation of the health of the nation. In 2019, the school marked 100 years of existence and has surprised more than 15 doctors of science. I will only mention academic Veljko Vlahovic and some Belgrade University professors, such as Rifat Ramovic, Hasan Hanic and not to list any further. As far as sports are concerned, Brodarevo is a place that was given by state champion, record player, Olympic Armina Sinančević, athlete, discipline – throwing the ball. In addition, in competitions at the republican level of primary school students, this school, as a waste of talent in athletics, has been giving students first and second place for several years. Among them is Dino Tumbul, Serbia's junior champion and fourth in the Balkans. So that I would not list all the successes of the elementary school in Brodarevo in athletics and sports at all, although there are also table tennis, etc., what I am interested in is – are you as the Ministry of Information and can you take some activities so that, after a year and eight months, the hall is reopened and served primarily to the pupils of the elementary school in Brodarevo, and then sports clubs and citizens of Brodarov? As far as the bill is concerned, as I said, the SDPS will support all laws that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6657	Thank you, Mrs. Cosovic. The word has Minister Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6658	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, we will provide of course adequate information and what can be solved as a problem, it is that either primary or secondary schools or institutions of the student or student standard or higher education institutions turn to regular competitions that we have at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. I'm not familiar with the reason that, as I understand it, the hall that was built to be shut down. I guess it's about some debts. What it is to the Ministry, we will certainly do and look at these possibilities, but I think the competent school administration is obliged to inform the Ministry and see how this problem is resolved. So we can also deliver the answer in writing as soon as we get concrete information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6659	Thank you. Right on the replica of Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6660	I'd just like to take the opportunity to thank the minister for the answer. It's not about debt, it's about emergency inspection on fire protection. So, it's due to remove the measures for 30 days, they've been extended twice to six months. I think the Ministry of Education should be involved in solving this problem, because apparently someone isn't doing their job right.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6661	Thanks again. The word is Zagorka Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6662	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, Minister, as my fellow Member of Parliament has already said, in Vote Day, we will support this set of laws ahead of us. All the laws are equally important but I would certainly single out a law on gender equality that preceded one, we can say, an intense social dialogue and public debate and it represents an institutionalisation of a long struggle and that will continue after the adoption of this law, because it needs to be realistic and objective. By adopting one of these laws, we will not solve all the problems, but we will lay sound foundations and pave the way for full gender equality that it strives for. This law implies those practices that promote gender equality in all aspects of life, in the field of health and social protection, security, business life, traffic, technology, communication culture, sports, politics, association. It is, of course, directed against violence, implies a stricter criminal policy, and what is important involves mechanisms to prevent and identify violence. The fact is that today more than ever, Serbia has women who perform public functions. When it comes to the political power of women more than ever we have both ministers and MPs, but also the judge. However, we believe that these legal privileges are not only reserved for politicians and judges, but primarily for citizens and citizens of this country. Many citizens, unfortunately, are not sufficiently directed to their rights, face discrimination at every step, do not always recognise discrimination, are not properly informed. This is what various sectoral research is talking about, and ultimately, the Annual Report of the Trustee on Equality, as a very relevant document, and that is a fact over which we must not close our eyes. For Unity Serbia, the measures of law in the fifth district are particularly important, I think it is the fifth, which is the area of labour, employment and self-employment, and the area has changed a lot and improved. A very precise and clear normative framework has been created to ensure full application of equal opportunities policy when it comes to work. With this law, we founded the fight for equality, we gave it a framework, we defined ourselves in one clear direction. However, gender equality does not ensure the adoption of the law, but rather its application, and therefore it is very important that all the factors of this society work. Equality should become a manner of manners, a way of conduct that should be practiced in all social relations, starting with those of families to those who are educated in institutions. We also support the bill on the restoration of cultural and historical heritage and the promotion of the development of the Sremski Karlovac and the entire cultural and historical continent, the city core of Sremski Karlovci represents a unique cultural heritage in Serbia. Karlovci is a town – a museum, a town of unique vineyard tradition. No city in Serbia paints such an era of romance as the Sremski Karlovci. It is the town of Branko Radičević, a former site of local intellectual elites and a place that was the center of culture, education and spirituality once for Serbs. We hope to win the crown soon and there will be more investment in the area of culture. While I am already at the crown and pandemic we are still fighting, I would just like to mention that in the organization of the Jagodina City Assembly, and on the cost of donors and on the initiative of JS President Dragan Markovic Palma, 600 people will be staying in the Paralia from June 3rd to 7th, most of them doctors, 500 of them, and most of those who spent the pandemic in the red zone. The parliamentary group will support all the legal proposals ahead of us in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6663	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6664	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Comic and his associates, Minister Ruzic, with his associates and distinguished representatives of the province's government, respected colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we have a set of important laws ahead of us. I know I haven't said anything new. I will not deal with the first law that is on the agenda, the Law on Middle Education, because it was really exhaustively spoken by Professor Zarko Obradović and Djorđe Milicevic. In fact, I generally don't speak after Professor Obradovic when it comes to education, it would be too brave, but I want to deal with laws that are also on the agenda, it's the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on Equality and the Law on Sremski Karlovci. We've heard a lot of nice details, but I'm going to start my discussion with the position of equality. What does she look like in practice? Like this, says Honorable counterpart Djordje Milicevic of the position of MP group president, spends half the time and leaves the other half as his colleague, who is his deputy. It is an equality in practice in the Serbian parliament, respected Serbian citizens. It's always nice to rewrite it when it exists. If it were any different, I'd be the loudest critic, the minister knows that's why she's so cute and smiling. We passed the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination in 2009 and, somewhere, it seems to me, we were less sensitive than we are today. Why are we so sensitive today when it comes to the issue of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, I cannot understand until the end, although I suppose my position is not that I understand something, especially if these are personal reactions, because before one of these laws, which is true in its composition, contains something that for certain people who are prejudiced on the subject of a part of this law might be controversial, must be looked at through a little broader prism, even taking what is what we would have accepted and what we refused. I'll get to that. Human rights, civil rights, minority rights, that is, people, the Constitution of Serbia. What is the problem with us stepping out and improving our two laws, both being passed in 2009? Practice has shown after what it is, 12 years, that certain changes should be made, that they should be improved, that they should be stepped out, that some endangered categories that we may not have dealt with in 2009. Maybe they were quieter, maybe they weren't accentuated. What is discrimination in practice? We know best who were once the object of discrimination that turned into violence. I say this from the position of someone who lived in the southern Serbian province and was discriminated against solely because she is a Serbian, so as such I was at risk that when I went into town at night and stayed after 23.00 hours, I could be a potential target for a rapist exclusively by religious background. There are many victims, unfortunately, of one such approach to life. What Serbia had never been, there was no ground on which anyone was allowed to treat anyone in this way. That's why it's important to say out loud what this law has said. On several occasions, the Minister, you responded and tried to resolve certain dilemmas, if they were dilemmas, if they were not express views. The amendments to the law are in that part that I looked at, and I looked very studioy, it's primarily about expanding forms of discrimination. It now includes both full and gender harassment, humiliating treatment, harassment or an indication of discrimination, and then a difficult form of discrimination will be seen as discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and age, and you have talked about the report by the Commissioner. I haven't been able to look at it, but I believe those numbers aren't a bit promising. So far, discrimination has been considered to cause or promote inequality, hatred or intolerance based on racial, national and religious membership, language, political determination, gender, gender identity and disability. This change is the result of the need to comply with European legislation, but also the result of the observed practice that, on these two grounds, discriminatory behaviour has increased. From here I would stop with everything that could be and it is nice with me written in the light of this law and move on to what I can't accept in practice. I can't accept that in the 21st century in a free country of Serbia, in the middle of Belgrade, which is the capital of my friend Boris Milicevic, someone rolled with a knife just because he was declared gay, as I couldn't accept that any of you, and I was talking about it in the Assembly recently, anyone just attacks because they don't think the same way politically, because it differs ideologically, because he has a different color of hair, skin or because he has a employer who told him that he has to attack you when you come out of the Assembly. It's all the same discrimination, and it's all the reasons where we don't have the right to be insensitive to one, and to others to be hypersensive. I may not be able to understand the representatives of the gay population, but on the other hand, I'm not someone who can only judge them about it. I'm rather impressed by the courage of those who can do it. In doing so, knowing Serbia did not often know that she was being hypocritical of certain issues. I know why I'm saying it, because sometimes the question of an individual is bigger than a social phenomenon, so we accept an individual because it would be good for us, and it's not a social phenomenon. By passing the Discrimination Act, I'm sure we'll help endangered categories. In the past term, we have heard countless times about the problems of autistic children, children with disabilities, children who can't care for themselves, parents who can't follow their work obligations, single mothers who have such children, single fathers, different categories that we don't recognize in society until we hear them. When we make one of these laws, we made a commitment first of all for you from the Ministry to hear every voice and not to remain immune to it at any cost, to speak loudly about it. That's why I'm glad we have a law like this. That's why I appeal to everyone who is bothered by this first part and I can understand it and it's human and it's allowed, that when they criticise this law, they take into account both the old and the sick and the Roma and all the minorities and all the endangered categories, because as a society, we're ruthless of everything we don't know or us for famous, and the society of unknown reasons, can scare us. The trustee gets certain powers, obligations. I am sure that, in a concrete case, the Commissioner will respond to everything that the law, or amendments to this law, put before it, once Parliament has declared itself to these laws. From what I understand from the discussion, we will support these laws. I will now move to the Law on Gender Equality which practically replaces the current Law on Gender Equality, also adopted in 2009, a roof document for the creation of a society in which all citizens have equal living conditions. So it's an institutional framework that creates conditions for implementing equal opportunities policy, equal opportunities for life, work for both women and men. There I am now going back to that beginning and to my distinguished colleague, Djordj Milicevic, who had the awareness that the time of the parliamentary group, the second largest, which is not long, nor great, belonged equally, so we divided it. George wasn't talking about less important law than me, but everything in life can be achieved when we realize that all we have is half. If I were to be authentically rude, I could say that according to statistics in Serbia, women have more than men, but I won't, but I will say that when it comes to equality we have to remember and that women have more in the position of judges, e.g. In courts of general jurisdiction, the data says, 1,320 women and 575 men, and in courts of special jurisdiction are mostly women, more than two-thirds. In the prosecution, it's true, it's not that kind of situation. An irregular relationship when it comes to wages and pensions. They're less on average for women. The pay gap between women and men in 2018 was 8.8% and is particularly likable, this data places Serbia in the countries with the smallest pay gap in Europe. However, it should be borne in mind that the differences in earnings between men and women towards the degree of education or occupation are significantly greater. Here it is said that the pay gap in Europe is 16.3%, and in the world as much as 23%. Serbia will, in all likelihood, be an example of good practice by adopting these two laws first and then by applying them. It's not bad. In 2021, it's not the first time we've stepped forward from other countries in the environment, so if you want to go to Europe. When it comes to pensions, it also says that the average age pension for women is 25,000 and for men over 26,000. All of these are some indicators of imbalances that need to be worked on, which should lead to perfection. I'm sure we're settled as a society and a state to do it with the fact that we've met with these laws. If I haven't been wrong for six years, we've been trying to get to the bill, so we've had a comeback, so we disagree. This is final now, probably not the best. After all, I'm someone who's had an amendment intervention, so it's apriorier means that this wasn't a law that wasn't really for criticism and he'll probably show that there's more criticism, but I'm not going to reject it, especially if it's a threat to the family, especially assuming it's very dangerous from the position of favouring gay populations, because to tell you what I'm going to say out loud, and I'm not going to tell you from whom, I wouldn't refuse the ministerial post in the current government, and I'm sure neither would those who criticise the gay population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6665	Thank you, Mrs. Paunovic. The time of the parliamentary group has been spent. The word is made by Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6666	Thank you. I thank the People's Messenger for the question and for the sentence from her statement on why we are ruthless toward one another. When this mercilessness in society occurs between equal, physically equally strong, equally strong, however equally strong it may seem to you, but when you see that society is ruthlessly treated by those with a personal quality who cannot bear anything but the mercilessness of society instead of justice and justice, then we find the answer to the question – how do we change and supplement the Law on Discrimination? Because life has brought us new forms of discrimination and new mercilessness and we have no right to deny life and we have no right to deny it to people who are the target of discrimination, who are the target of mercilessly deny the definition of what the right should be. Two thousand and more years ago, wise people said, "Ius est ars boni et aequi" is the true art of goodness and justice. And both the laws that the Ministry has passed before you are attempts to be the right that are the art of goodness and justice. Ready for all criticism and open to amendments to which the text of the law and changes and improves, it is important for us to remember during this debate exactly the fact that there are some of us who do not want to be silent and murmur when we see that some are strong ruthless toward some who are weak. There are some of us who think it's natural. And that putting the merciless of choice would spoil what they themselves consider to be a good tradition of this society. We are deeply opposed to the belief that Serbian society is authentically ruthless in any part of its tradition. For all of you and for all those who are watching Serbian society, I will look for the same thing I ask from international organisations, institutions, representatives, because I see they make mistakes often when they make an assessment of Serbia. I asked them for the benefit of doubt, that Serbia may not be what they sometimes think it is, that Serbia is neither a victim nor eternally guilty, and that Serbia is certainly not without potential, free of will and mechanisms to build a democratic society, a society without discrimination, a society with a minimum of mercilessness and a society that understands the word - humanity. So, the same benefit of the doubt we ask of foreigners for Serbia, I ask you for two laws that you have no prejudice against them, not because you have to vote for these laws if you do not, far away, but because for all those who flatly and lightly express the court's provisions of the law on the prohibition of discrimination or the law on gender equality, it is good for them to wish for the benefit of doubt with a sentence - whether I think it is good or just merciless. And therefore thanks to Snezani Paunovic for essentially giving the answer we requested during today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6667	Thank you. Let's move on, Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6668	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister of the District Government with associates, respected ministers with associates, honourable MPs and MPs, respected citizens, I will talk about these two laws on the draft law on gender equality and on the draft law on complementarity and amendments to the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination of Discrimination. First, I would like to congratulate Mrs Gordani Comić and my associates on their successful work, an excellent job. So the key to these two laws is evolution, and that's what I was talking about at the Committee's session the other day, is the evolution of the concept of equality and evolution of the fight against discrimination. The essence of these two laws is in humanity and in the fight against violence, and the basis of violence is discrimination and inequality. The question of disagreement or disapproval of these two laws is the most common result of ignorance and prejudice. The answers to this are pretty simple. So let's just think of evolution briefly backwards. In ancient times, and even in the Middle Ages, not only were all women unequal but over 50% of men, probably much more, because they were all considered less valuable slaves or lower class. Fortunately slavery and classes have been abolished and overcome. At the end of the 19th century and the early 20th century, in the light of full equality, there was only equality between men. And as someone’s strange or unacceptable gender equality today, in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, most of them were unacceptable ideas about equality between women and men. And fortunately again, in the first half of the 20th century, we have overcome that inequality. I mean, that's the case with this gender equality, and that prism needs to be watched. So the notion of gender also raises questions. There's a part of the human population that thinks it has a special birth identity that doesn't match genetic identity, and this part of the population whether two or ten percent deserves to be watched through the prism of social cultural differences, not just through the prism of the biological sex. And that's why, among other things, there's a notion -- gender, "jender" from the Latin Genus, gender, species. And part of the answer for which is the concept of gender and gender, and what is the concept of gender and kin is next. Born and born because we are all men and women, members of all races and bearers of all gender identities part of the human race. We're all human beings and this particular species, and it's related to us all together. This is confirmed by natural and social sciences of course. A small part of the public about it, the esteemed minister said, is making a senseless noise about these two laws, but it is a much smaller part of the public than it was 10 years ago. This is another proof that this government has relaxed social relations and reduced tensions in society. This small part of the public exaggerates, caricates and distorts the fact, but we still hear and respect their voice. These two laws have the most to do with equality between men and women, with the prohibition of discrimination, and also with women still present and all in light of evolution in terms of equality and expansion of the areas to which it relates. I am also talking about the evolution of the right, because it is part of this law and of the legal science that concerns equality and the prohibition of discrimination on any basis, and all of these laws and fictions are at least denied by the reality of Serbia created by President Vucic and SNS in the last nine years. This reality in which divisions and tensions in society are reduced to the least possible and that's it. So, since President Vucic and SNS are in power, it is no longer possible to repeat in 2010 when the regime at the time on October 10th led to a conflict on the streets of Belgrade, 12,000 people, 6000 on each side, and for this conflict it was solely the wrong regime that was not up to the situation and which was unable to reduce tensions in society and prevent what occurred on October 10th 2010. Is there better evidence of equality, reconciliation, human rights, equal conditions for all and the absence of discrimination than the fact that parades under rainbow flags in these nine years are maintained under normal conditions, without tension or conflict? Is there better evidence of all this, therefore, of the equality of human rights, reconciliation, equal conditions for all than the maesteral move of President Vukic, who, four years ago, entrusted the term of office to a decent and decent person, Mrs. Ani Brnabic? Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic is the best proof of how equal and undiscriminatory the population is. In any case, the human rights of all citizens have been significantly improved in the last nine years, and as part of that, the rights of the LGBT population. Another evidence and perhaps final in this part, Anna Brnabic has been headed by the Serbian government for four years. She proved to be a worthy, decent, capable, modest, and balanced person. Turns out she's not some kind of ficus, she's a character of a solid character. Besides not hiding her commitment, she didn't even point him out. It has, as Vucic's revelation, contributed to the improvement of overall relations in our society, tolerance and understanding. These two laws contribute to a better gender ratio, understanding of women and men. Therefore, they also make no suspicious contribution to family values. This also contributes to Serbia's greater demographic summering and liveliness. Serbia's 63rd constitution says -- the Republic of Serbia encourages parents to decide on the birth of children and help them do so. We remember that Serbia has the Ministry of Family and Demography besides the ministry of Ms Comic, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue. Family, parenting, offspring and concepts – a child, father and mother are traditional, unconquered and noble values that provide healthy society, demographic vitality of the people and values that show respect for the ancestors' heritage and enable healthy and undisturbed shift of generations in Serbia. In this respect, these two laws essentially respect what is the core of tradition. Society traditionally protects the interests of children and minors as an important social value. One of the main objectives is to protect children and minors from influences and information that negatively affect their physical and intellectual development, and these harmful influences are, for example, propaganda of violence, pornography, forced roles and, for example, manipulation of gender and gender identity. It is important that we protect children and minors and give them the opportunity to do so in an unfettered way, it is very important, it shows its full birth identity. What's the point of protecting children and minors? Because they do not possess most of the protection and knowledge mechanisms, because they are not mature and formed personalities. I'm sure these two laws contribute to that. For the end, President Vukic is building bridges in society, not division. It has been shown that full impact is the overall approach of President Vukic and the entire SNS reconciliation in society, patience, patience, desire for dialogue, soft use of power and the hand of friendship to everyone, and even those who may not deserve that hand. Of course, it is even more convincing because of the economic success of the government, because President Vukic is raising Serbia, treating Serbia, building Serbia, injecting Serbia, giving it back its dignity and courage. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6669	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6670	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a little strange for me when one of the promoters is late for a session of the National Assembly. There is no greater sanctity for MPs, and I believe for ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is no greater sanctity than the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, recently a gender-equal minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia made the following statement. The statement is this: He who is against the same-sex marriages or the community does not have to live therein. Analoguely, I can say – whoever is for the same-sex communities or the same-sex marriages must live in them. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, human rights are the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security. Special rights assigned to one of the groups of any kind can be very unpleasant, to say, for certain societies. We're not all the same. There are patriarchal people who find that difficult to deal with. Now I wonder, when I talk about discrimination - what happens if two homosexuals are killed in the same sex community? Is that domestic violence? If it's just the same-sex community if there's violence, is that what domestic violence is? What happens if they fight, and there are men who have three wives, what happens if three women fight each other? Is this going to be domestic violence or is it just the first one to be married in the family? What happens if the three of them join together against him and kill him from the beatings? I wonder, will it be domestic violence if those who did not marry beat him? Then who's gonna get out of the house? Poor man. We have to be very careful. You, Mr. Martinovic, should remember your bag. I'm afraid it's about broadcasting certain rights, to put it that way, broadcasting that it's about supplementing that bag of yours. A country with a low birth rate shouldn't be making some kind of a thing, I'm not saying it's feminism, but we'd have more pressing problems solving than these. Let's say, 40% plus 50%, why just functions, Mr. Martinovic? Can you tell me? Why not 40% of miners, why not 40% of welders, why not 40% of tractors, why not 40% of regular soldiers? Why only 40% to 50%? So are these special rights, the right to rule? Let's think about whether we should open a clinic around here for a quick sex change. What about full of helpless beings that I will be in ten years, I hope to experience a full, powerless being? What do we do with them? What about people who want to feel like a weaker sex and say, "No matter, I'm a little girl in my soul?" Are we going to open up here in a hurry for a quick sex change? We're all witnesses that some of them have changed nations here, some of us have changed their residence to become councilmen, someone's changed their name, it's expected that people want to do their jobs, to change the sex quickly. Who's going to determine in that situation who changed sex or not? Are we going to do it in a way that determines PAP? I really don't know how far we're going to go because we're society prone to various abuses and we need to be very careful about it. Let's talk about the Sremski Karlovci. I, who was born in the New Carlovites, is the settlement of the Sremski Karlovci, I fear that our history we have taught, at least my generation, the history of the ancient Serbs, to call them that, has never represented enough in textbooks. A proportionate policy that was conducted and the political opportunities that were in the SFRY, the history of Serbs was brought down, characterized by the political events in the country and the state's arrangement, so it was almost forbidden to find events in history textbooks where Serbs participated, and that this was not happening in the narrow so-called "species". Serbia, then, you learn the first and second Serbian uprising and that was the end of Serbian history. I'm asking you, is there, like, a battle at Slanceman's? It's a great victory for Christians in 1691, a small monument. We mark our great victories with little monuments, and the great defeats then we are pompous and prefer to mark defeats rather than victory. The great victory of 1691 that John Monasteria later led, right, Ludwig Badenski led the Christian army. It was a major defeat of the Turks thanks to Jovan Monasterlia and the Serbian horsemen who broke through twice as powerful a Turkish army and thus contributed to the Christian victory. Later they participated in a smaller number and in the Battle of Sainta, resulting in the Karlovian peace. Why didn't they say that Petrovadin was involved? If they had laid the foundation stone in Novi Sad then, would that be right, Prime Minister of the province? So let's talk some more. What do we know about goose? What do we know about the history of geese? Nenad Canak says – we don't want a goose piano. The pirate schools were in Vojvodina, so-called The Blind Academy, because the pirates were blind, was in Irig. When the Austrian Empire banned in 1780, a pirate school was founded in Stari Slankamen. So, in fact, the geese were actually a duchy instrument, the Greek village of Mr. Martinovic, now the village of Višnićeva, as a sign of Serbian Homer Višnić. What have we learned in history? There was very little in the history books. Let's continue to see what happened to the duke's Serbia. How much did we learn about it? But before that, let's see what we've learned about Mattia Loser? Everything. It was a big peasant rebellion. Of course, peasant leaders always end badly. So I don't have much ambition. I come to say, I am not a peasant leader, just enough not to be executed, lest I be crowned like him. Now, we learned all about this coronation, whether or not it was, mostly in history books we learned that it was crowned with a hot crown and that it was barbaric, etc., and he was the leader of Slovenian-Croatian these Zagorians etc. What have we learned about Theodore Vršack? What have we learned about the Vrsak rebellion, which in dimensions was one of the three Serb uprisings? What have we learned about Theodore Vršack? In 1594, he was the leader of the Banatski Rebellion, the Banatski Uprising. In the banana uprising he participated, eventually crushed by 30,000 Turkish soldiers, versus 4,000 Serbians, 4.300, if I'm not mistaken. Theodor Vrsacki was first out, then the Turks caught him on fraud and ripped him off alive with the mech. We did not learn about Theodore Vrsakh in historical readings, because then the order in the SFRY was such that history could only be taught by Serbia. So, these parts have already been written off by both provinces, you shouldn't have learned anything. What have we learned about Vojvodina Serbia in textbooks? No, I learned that voluntarily, because at that time Vojvodina was greater Serbia than any Serbian region, in 1848. The May Assembly where Stefan Šupljikac becomes a duke, the Metropolitan Rajačić becomes a patriarch and the Austrian Empire recognizes the Mayan Assembly and acknowledges Stefan Šupljikca as a patent, where he was excited because he held trenches towards the Turks at Pancheva, fell off his horse and died of a heart attack. In that place, one party had to build a monument, because no one in Serbia wanted it, they were communists first, and then yellow, they were not too interested in raising monuments of that kind. What did we learn about the second precancian history? What did we learn, since I graduated from school in New Carlovci? The school was also completed by Dimitrije Mita Ruvarac, who was the director of printing in Sremski Karlovci, was also the head of the library in Sremski Karlovci. He was not like Bosko Obradovic, he was far better. So he was a great Serb. What we learned about his literary work “Here’s What You Are Guilty! “? ” The man was psychic, he described everything the Croats will do to us, that their intensity is not to recognise Serbs as political people, that Serbs who want to be political people must be considered Croats etc. In advance, he pointed to the drowning of Serbs, which happened to us. Dimitrije Ruvarac was buried in the Sremski Karlovci. Do we have anything in our textbooks about him? He is, by the way, well - known that I don’t pick any further, as the saying goes: “It’s a heavy empty bag. ” Well, gentlemen of the Serbs, we can't create the past, but we can create the future, and the future needs to be that way to roll our sleeves and fill up, in an economic sense, that empty Serbian bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6671	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6672	Dear Presidential, Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, in this spirit of my colleague Risticevic, we are going and putting everything into function of economic development. And this today's bill of law relating to the historic restoration of practically Sremski Karlovci is also in that function, but this part when we talk about gender equality and the fight against discrimination is also in the function of not only economic development but also social development at all. That's what we need to say today. I'll look back, seeing as we're at the end of the debate, on the birth equality law. We here in the Assembly together, Madam Minister, have raised some questions based on what was waiting for us here in 2012, and we have been awaited by this parliamentary work, in the sense that you have succeeded in introducing certain quotas for the election of MPs, i.e. parliamentary lists and parliamentary lists. You should've moved on. Obviously, the first step was very difficult, and this was the Women's Parliamentary Network, in fact to establish an informal parliamentary group of all representatives of parliamentary groups of positions and opposition. At that moment from 2012 to 2013, this struggle lasted with the fact that it was simple and with our colleagues to explain what we were going to do, in fact. Then we met somewhere on these topics, such as the Istanbul Convention, such as gender equality, and our trip from 2013 to 2015, when we succeeded in certain amendments, to animated our colleagues, but ultimately Mr. Dusan Vujovic and Mr. Vučić, who was then prime minister, proved to be the results of this hard work. So that's not what we're talking about in public when we talk about executives, about institutions. In society, there was talk about negotiations with the European Union, it was somewhere under chapters 23, 24, where there were approximately rights, the fight against discrimination, human rights, minority rights, but nowhere did the issue pop up when it comes to gender equality. So what do we have today in 2021? So in 2015, I will remind you, apart from those amendments that entered the Budget Law, where gender-responsible budgeting and greater support came into place, when it came to women from rural areas, women entrepreneurs and women who are in the field of science, we have done somewhere here to raise awareness in all people, which is that until then the office of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs which dealt with gender equality was defined, and we have simply turned down that part of the Ministry Act and opened a single coordination body here in the Assembly, meaning, voted the Law on Ministry, the Coordination Body that will deal with gender equality and that will correspond exclusively to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, or Mr. Vucic. That means, if it hadn't been for political will and if it hadn't really been for political awareness that it was necessary to raise to a higher level this topic, we wouldn't be able to talk about this law at all today. Why am I saying that? So our work of two years and not only here in parliament, but also the conversation in depth, when we talk about the committees of local parliaments, it's been bearing fruit somewhere. When we got all these mechanisms, then we had to go to the realization of all that, go to the preparation of this kind of legal solution. As we can see, from 2016 to today it's also been a long trip. We had three proposals, or ways, processes, what to call them, while we came to today's solution in terms of a legal proposal. The proposal is based on those areas exactly which we here in parliament have drawn, the part relating to social dialogue related to work, employment, the part relating to education, culture, the part relating to social policy and the fight against violence against women and the part relating to greater participation of women in political life. As a result, we have received one government of the Republic of Serbia, which has 50% plus one woman. So we have made this democratic step and shown both to the European Union and the world that we can do it without this law. So it's up to the man, it's still up to us, but it's still about whether we can carry out one consensus when it comes to political dialogue, both like-minded and unthinking. Today, we had the opportunity to hear that there was also a political dialogue between the position and the opposition here in the Small Hall, which simply did not accept the fact that they wanted it to be under the patronage of some foreign international organisations, and so was the European Parliament. As you can see, we're talking about it in society. The more we talk, obviously we have better results. Although there are individuals who call themselves the opposition, so they attack Mr. Vukic, president of Serbia, that he is a political tyrant, that he does not accept any dialogue, show in fact, talking about them who do not want to talk, because they have nothing to say on certain topics. If they wanted to say something, they'd say something about this birth equality bill. And this law has done a lot of things and even gone a lot of steps forward. I wanted to dedicate this exhibit to something that I don't think anyone's really considered in detail, which is gender-responsible budgeting, article 5 defined by this law, because all of this is what we're talking about, supporting women, and when it comes to social categories, health and education, and women in the country, and fighting violence against women, can't unless you have the state's systemic financial support, and it's going through the budget, and it's already going through certain rules of its own, and those rules have already passed on to the United Nations to international financial institutions, and it's already done by the World Bank, and it's already doing the IMF. That should have really been a step-by-step. In 2016, it started in the Ministry of Finance, with 27 institutions, today we have a fourth progress report on the introduction of a gender-responsible budgeting in the public finance planning system in the Republic of Serbia, and the report was done by the UN Women, which said Serbia has made a lot of progress in its conclusions. And it progressed because today when we talk about 2019, because it always goes backwards when certain analyses are done, out of 40 direct budget users, 34 are included specifically in the process of gender-responsible budgeting. What does that mean, to make the citizens of Serbia understand? The exact money is defined, how much is spent on women and how much for men, how much for certain programmes that are related to gender equality and how much more to achieve this balance we have heard from our colleagues – 50% and 50%. It's very difficult. This road is difficult, but it should also be said that all EU members do not respect this. So as much as the state manages to force both financially and democratically, in terms of its organisation of society, to implement all these programmes, we can talk about whether someone has achieved certain results. According to UN Women, you can see that Serbia is both ahead of Croatia and ahead of Bosnia, Macedonia, Montenegro. So, yet he's the leader of the region, yet she's now competing with the Benelux countries, which are best at all this because otherwise their functioning system has long begun on this principle of gender-responsible budgeting. We had the opportunity here to host certain members of the parliaments of Belgium, Sweden, where they were in their composition completely male. And they found it very strange that we were all women on the other side. And then we asked them, well, how is it possible for men to fight for gender equality in your countries, and they say, "We are the ones who are in fact the vulnerable sex that we seek their equality, just as you are now seeking here." So, you see, the picture can be seen on both sides. It's best to carry out a certain balance. That balance, the way to that balance is very difficult. The objectives of reporting, when we talk about gender-responsible budgeting, exist and are precisely defined. They should provide an affirmation of good practice, should contribute to certain institutions that have introduced gender-responsible budgeting, should support learning throughout this process, but should also support those institutions, entities that have already introduced this example of good practice, and simply as that example should be an example for others who will introduce it. By now 165 civil servants have passed education related to gender-responsible budgeting, and I think it is of great importance for these four years. I can't finish this speech without saying there are certain criticisms on this bill. Why? Because when we talk about combating discrimination at all, we must not allow this law, which is indeed a European and democratic step for Serbia, we must not endanger and simply introduce some form of other discrimination by introducing certain rights of minorities and by actually putting some pressure on certain target groups. What do I mean? I'm saying that, let's say, you have an institute to preserve the language of the Republic of Serbia that has opposed one of these laws, precisely because we here introduce a native sensitive language, but it's not our model, it's the model of all developed states that have introduced one of these laws, and somewhere many experts in this area are opposed to it, because somewhere in our words we introduce some new concepts into everyday use, and by doing so, we tear down that concept of proper Serbian language speech, and that's what in this part of it is, in fact, when it's just a language, it's creating a single worm of doubt that we are now introducing such a law, that it's not something too much for all of us, on the other hand, the introduction of certain school programs in this part, when it's just a change, or the introduction of that native sensive language, and maybe it's becoming a problem for a particular group, on the third side, writing of scientific works that are bound to use of native language. So it's all in the law here. So I'm saying, maybe we don't read all that detail, and then we don't recognize things that way. So it obliges all scientific workers to introduce a native sensitive language when doing their work. On the other hand, just a question of employment, let's say, if you have certain companies where you have over 60-70% of whether men or women, here you are bound to have 40% of that less represented sex. Then what happens to these companies? Do they then have to fire a certain number of workers so that they can hire new workers or simply say – okay, I accept criminal provisions, I am unable to implement all these provisions? I think that's why it's very important for us, I saw in the application of this law that many of the provisions will only be applied in 1.1.2024, that simply by regulations and regulations, by sublegal acts, you really solve all these misunderstandings that occur and perhaps as one fear of people who will participate in this whole process. That is why I say that this law represents a great step for us and what we are no longer talking about chapters when it comes to negotiations with the EU, rather than talking about clusters, surely this law will be part of the cluster that we will adopt. For us, it is of great importance and we are normally fighting here to show that we are really the best European integration on this path in the region, and it also showed up yesterday at this meeting of the Western Balkans that was in the Brions, that we have this greatest awareness of how important it is to have good regional co-operation, regardless of the provocations, wherever they come from, and I think that's why we need to talk a lot in public. You are the bearer, after all, as the Ministry, of this bill, should talk to the public about what this law is making and how good it will actually bring to citizens or citizens in the future and how much problems we will overcome much easier in society. In the voting day, of course I will support this bill, by thinking that some amendments that I have seen really need to be considered seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6673	Thank you. Since the lists are no longer registered, there is a proposaler, Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6674	I thank and thank the MP Aleksandra Tomic for showing everything that has been done in this Assembly after the amendment and the addition of the law that has introduced 30% of the mandatory quotas, because it is important to hear and remain in institutional memory. It is even more important since, by August 15th, the initial foundations of the gender equality strategy will be developed and all that you have been talking about will be practically part of the strategy. Because you have an analysis of the life we measured, so the way you make allies to make it better for both men and women. There is no decision on this planet if it is not to be voted by men, and in order for men to vote there must be a dialogue with men. There must be a clear proposal on why it is necessary to vote for gender-sensitive budgeting, why it should be voted on. The assembly did so and as men voted for 40% of mandatory quotas, there would have been no decision if it hadn't been for the agreement of the president of the Assembly and the president of Serbia. For everything we want as a change, a model of gender that is intended for women and men, men need, because otherwise there is no decision. It does not need to be constantly stressed, but good at least sometimes, and at least once, because it is then also a mechanism to develop a dialogue that we lack in society, regardless of whether it is about gender roles, whether it is about Serbia's future, whether it is about protecting the environment, whether it is about violence, whether it is about mental health. We need to talk, but indeed, about the facts as practically as Aleksandra Tomic gave us a break for everything the Strategy will contain. And this ministry, we've already done it and we're going to do it again, unusually, maybe practice at the first meetings, phase-making of the birth equality strategy, we're going to call it the National Assembly. Usually, MPs are not in contact with documents at that stage, but when they pass the government or already. I think they should be in the earliest stages, because they either have experience with what's going on in this field or they should simply go to the voices of people, so they know who these are people who want to vote for a better position or for a good plan of the Strategy for Gender Equality. On the native sensitive language, the native sensitive language is otherwise referred to as the use of Serbian grammar. He's nothing smaller, nothing more than that. And we know that every time you introduce it as a reminder that you're going to get a semi-conflict dialogue and it can be good. Let me remind you how it ended up in the previous Law on Gender Equality, which was practically withdrawn because we asked for female occupations to be female occupations. It's the grammar of our language. By having in your laws, as you know, all the phonebooks are considered both female and male. So we didn't mutilate the laws with anything. Various authorities, various oppositions, but we meant that we understood what it means to be the identity of someone in language, who speaks like a native language, and in that native language, the nouns change by generation, by number, and by fall. It is also a provision for us as a society to show scientific works, in scientific texts, that the protocols of the regulation will be such that in these texts, sentences are added as in our laws, that all the phonebooks are considered both female and male, I do not know that, but you are welcome to suggest this to people who think it will harm scientific research. No, it won't. Far away. For all the amendments we have received, we are truly grateful that there are quite a number of amendments we hope to accept, so that they become an integral part of the text of the law. Amendments that are authentically your amendments, which have been strengthened and confirmed by the opinion of the Council of Europe experts and the amendments that are necessary because there are technical mistakes or there is something that should not be left to red tape. If the outcome of today's debate and future debates in particular is that many of you continue to bear me, as a member of the government, that I continue to bear all of you very much and I like you all, and that people in Serbia are more clear why the dialogue is healing, why the facts in the dialogue are necessary, and why it is necessary for men and women in Serbia to discuss a common future that is developing Serbia. Then the adoption of this law will be a success in itself, and you will be in this assembly, which you will very well control and monitor whether we follow the law. This is a big step for Serbia and I am personally grateful for the opportunity to testify and participate in this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-18-0.u6675	Thank you. Those who didn't make the turn, the day after tomorrow will be the second debate on the amendments, so we'll continue. What Mr Risticevic was saying, only if I can add, since he was talking about Serbs living in Vojvodina, and knowing little about their history, I would like to say that in November 1918 in Bacakh, Banat and Baranja in the elections for the great National Assembly that declared Serbia's accession, women had the right to vote. (Gordna Comic: And to be chosen. And be chosen. Before the United States, it was 1920, France in 1944, etc., not to mention Switzerland, which introduced it in 1971. It's about the history of the Serbian people. Are any of the other promoters answering for a word? Since we will have a discussion in particular, but with Ruzic we will not see each other, I would only say, since in the last session, we have transferred various education laws, the formation of councils from various areas of education to the government, to return it to the Assembly, because the Assembly must have its own control role, and the Government is already an executive body. If the National Council for Education, the National Council for Higher Education and everything else is appointed by the Government, the Assembly nor discusses their work, nor does it have a control function. That's what we've done with the amendments to the Culture Act. So talk to the Prime Minister. I think it is in line with the intensities and recommendations we receive and by European institutions. There's no reason for that, because since I've known about myself, it's been the National Assembly, and every time I've discussed the Work Report. I know it's easier for the minister, but the National Assembly thinks differently. Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 4. Next item tomorrow we'll be back at ten o'clock. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 12th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I would like to conclude that 194 MPs attend the session, but in order to determine the exact number, please insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 117 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelisaveta Veljkovic and Đuro Peric. We continue to work and move on to a common principled and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 5 to 10 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the meetings are attended by Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Tatjana Matić, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Aleksandra Damjanović and Biljana Popović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Milos Cvetanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Branislav Popović, Danica Uskoković, Milan Petrović and Veljko Kovacevic, Deputy Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Natalija Radoja, Head of the Department for Regulatory, Analysis and Planning of Information Society at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Milan Vojvodić, Head of the Department for Information Security and Electronic Affairs at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) and 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Planning and Construction; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Document Act, Electronic Identification and Services of Trust in Electronic Business; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Specific Conditions for the Implementation of the Building of Apartments for Security Forces; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters; Proposal for a Law on Metro and City Railways and Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on International Interbus Transport of Passengers by Buses (Interbus Agreement) and Decision No. 1/2011 Joint Committee established by Interbus agreement on the international occasional transport of passengers by buses. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Tomislav Momirovic. Here you go.
