ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5311	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that at this time 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 3 to 5 of the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association and Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Parliamentary Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Since we are here proposing Mr. Martinovic and I, I have nothing to explain, nor will I assume, Mr. Martinovic, ask the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, do they want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5312	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the issue of permanent parliamentary delegations, as well as the question of membership, i.e. the Stabilisation and Association Committee, are topics that actually represent the aspect of action in the National Assembly that can be visible, but not necessarily. So there's what's called the workings of the Assembly itself, and that's what we usually do every day here in the plenary room, but also what's really necessary to do. However, there is also that part of the National Assembly that can be passive and can be very active. What we have in front of us today is, therefore, a permanent parliamentary delegation is actually something that we should measure the actual capacity, and the individual, both in parliamentary clubs and in general in the entire parliament. Of course, the National Assembly has its own tradition on this matter and has its own activities. True, what it is is a very difficult aspect, i.e. making it difficult for these delegations to function at full capacity, is this condition in which we are, therefore, the state of the cove of the pandemic. We are about now this aspect of the activity, not only the issue of permanent parliamentary delegations, but almost all of those activities that have to do with international activities in which, according to our regulations and programmes, MPs are somehow reduced to a minimum. We understand, however, that we are also mentally defined, or determined to deal with what is most necessary, to simply enable the work of the National Assembly, or to carry out our obligations here in the National Assembly, because regardless of the fact that we are in some kind of unusual state, although it is not officially extraordinary, but the fact is that it is not completely regular, nor is it quite common. So we are MPs, we do these duties, and we come to work every day, and ultimately we exercise our rights as a member of the Parliament. Citizens have the right to ask us for full capacity, certainly respecting the circumstances in which we are. What I'd like to point out in this case is that we don't succumb to that feeling that's natural to a man, and that's the day-to-day hope -- well, now the covid is going to stop tomorrow, so we're going to start working normally. So, you see, we had this feeling a year ago when we faced this crisis and then we somehow expected that this month, that for another three months, so now, half a year, but here you see it is the year itself and not just with us, I can say that somehow the atmosphere is best and not just psychologically, although this psychological aspect is also related to everything that seems to be at the state level in terms of taking all the measures and activities from immunization to operating in the field of medical infrastructure, providing services. So, what is good and what is certainly commendable, that this country with its leadership goes, I can say, a few moves ahead of the environment, but certainly going at least half a move ahead of the challenge which is actually something that is very good. But despite the fact that we are in a significantly better situation than many countries, almost all countries or all countries in the environment and many countries in Europe, and even beyond, there should actually be no reason to get somehow passively used to this situation on the one hand, all in the hope that the moment it passes, we will return to all those regular activities. I would just like to suggest that the issue of focusing on the activities that are at a distance and on how to act on international factors, that is, to carry out our obligations and what we owe as MPs, whether in permanent parliamentary groups, or in groups of friendships with parliaments of other countries, in any forums that operate within the National Assembly. So we should actually get more serious involved in some kind of preorientation into that distance of communication, or online communication. So this is why I want to praise this wing of the Education and Science Committee, which we recently called the Digitalisation and Information Society Subcommittee, which we not only founded to simply say that we have, but it actually works very seriously, and as you know, we have had a very serious public hearing here in the National Assembly recently, which can say that it has worked completely. A new public hearing is already being prepared that is likely to take place in Kragujevac. The group gathered in the subcommittee responsible for the field of information society and digitisation headed by counterpart Ragush is commendable. So they seem very active, they have full support from the Committee, as well as from the entire National Assembly. I would like to say that we actually need to be more serious about digital communication, which will certainly take on a significant number of aspects of communication in the coming period, and not just because of the coves, and not only because of these problems caused by the pandemic, but also because of trends that are inevitable in terms of the fact that digital society is becoming more and more not just a parallel process, but also becoming an integral part of a new culture of communication, but also an integral part of the daily need. So, if we want to, and I believe that it is, to keep up with the challenges of the particularly developed world, then I expect from the National Assembly and its leadership, but also from other government authorities, the agency that is in charge of this, which was the case with these activities so far, to actually strengthen our reorientation towards digitisation, and then we will remove all problems or a larger part of the problem precisely of these barriers, the inability to travel, the inability to perform our functions, in particular I think that, in addition to what today is the subject, but I think that the question of friendship groups is something that represents the invaluable great resources of this National Assembly and the whole state. The groups of friendships are somehow also pasivized, left to function simply as often by momentum where something is waiting for the delegation to come, that representatives or holders of responsibility in those groups be invited to some event symbolically and that's about to end. I can say, as someone who has led a group of friendships with the State of Qatar in the past term, even though the beginners, not only beginners as MPs, but for the first time this group of friendships with the State of Qatar were established, so it was a very long time before we set up groups on both sides, especially when it came to the kind of forms of monarchies that had their own specificities, but already when we were able to move in the second part of the mandate, then we organized a very, very, very rich, very serious visit where the five MPs of the group of friendship with Qatar traveled, I had the honor of leading the group, we were accepted in the best possible way, we had a dozen very important meetings at the state level. What was the impression was that the country had shown respect for this country, through respect for our delegation. In all the conversations, there was indeed a serious will to co-operate. I think it was certainly just the beginning, the truth, even then there were some problems in the Gulf of Golf, including the relationship to the State of Qatar, and then even somehow the atmosphere was unusual, but now that these problems are slowly eroding, I think, let's say, here's the example of this experience, the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the State of Qatar is another chance after it has proved to be extremely good for this country and for the overall international relations, especially relations between Serbia and the Muslim world, how well all those acts of friendship and partnerships that have already produced results in the investment field and in various other fields between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, should now be extended. Here, we've seen the steps taken with Bahrain, which is extremely important. It's about countries that have huge resources of co-operation, especially investment. There is also Qatar, regardless of their respective problems. We need to make friends with everyone, not to get into local problems among them, and so far it's done quite well, so now it's all to be updated. Of course, I am not subject to Qatar or co-operation with the Gulf States, but I am actually subject, in fact, to this example of how much activity, or potential opportunities, of friendship groups, is possible. I would actually invite the following experience to the MPs, especially those who have formally accepted that they are leading groups of friendships, if necessary, I am willing to make myself available to them, especially when it comes to groups of friendships with Muslim countries. Here, be comfortable talking to us, I will personally have all my experience, given that I have been developing cooperation with Muslim countries for almost three full decades, not to talk about the very knowledge, the stay in both the countries of Africa and the countries of Asia, so I am able to help anyone who wants to initiate cooperation activities, which will certainly be for the benefit. There's not always a big diplomatic action to be expected. So the acts of friendship are the most common issue of symbolic respect, the question of communication respect, the question of initiative, of the most petty of their most important events, congratulations, over the fact that, let's say, they support themselves and welcome some of the nice gestures they had in that country. These are things they respect very much, very respectable. For example, I recently supported in a public statement the changes that take place in the State of Qatar, which primarily included improving the Labour Act. Some of them asked me – well, you're advocating, what do we care about the Labour Act that was adopted in the State of Qatar? Well, we care very much because our companies are already going, they're interested in showing up there, and it's very important that the workers they're taking out of here under what conditions they're going to work there. So that's all and all that important stuff. Of course, some of their other reforms they're conducting, but I've seen how important it is to them, how much they're tracking it, they're passing it on in their media, and they're all representing it as acts of friendship of this country towards them. I simply share this with fellow Members of the people who have already assumed these responsibilities, I share that you simply know that with a little bit of energy can be done much or if not much can be done in these circumstances in which the country is now under the pressure of the pandemic, that it can maintain the continuity of communication, that, in fact, once we get a better situation, we can move more actively. We certainly have here and the theme of the Stabilisation and Association Programme, another topic that concerns our steps towards the EU. The subject of the EU is somehow mildly depressed when it comes to talking about the EU. It's been so many years on that road that it's not very impressive at all, that you know what we're going to do. I understand colleagues, regardless of ideological-politicality, which somehow loses will on that path. And you know that we have some two extremes here when it comes to the political public in Serbia, two extremes, of those who are Euro fanatics, who are, the truth is, somehow less and less, especially after all these political processes with us and the fall of the influence of certain political influences and parties who have been representatives of that idea so bile and fanatically, as they say, to those others who have had European orientation, moderately, but there is a serious fall of energy, will falls, which is to understand. On the other hand, we have increasingly loud those who are either Euro skeptics or opponents of the EU. But like all other topics and dilemmas, the middle is always the best. There's always some truth out there around the middle. And we should still be careful about all extremes, and the path to the middle is actually that way around which, firstly, the most truth, and on the other hand around the road in the middle is actually always the least risk to one country and to everything we do. In this case, when it comes to the way of the EU, through this or through all other programmes, you know how many obstacles it is when it comes to the chapters that are being opened, when it comes to the numerous reports that we receive and which contain many comforts, but, unfortunately, very often and certain inconveniences. But what we should be focusing on in that environment is actually what our reforms need to be, for us and for us, what are real, qualitative reforms, what we really need to do, because editing our state administration is an EU requirement, but it's primarily something we need. Because in an orderly administration we will ensure a better quality life for our collectiveities, for our individuals, we will ensure a better environment for both life and investment and for all projects, improvements and environments and our lives. So that's what you should always keep in the first place. Of course communication with the EU and with their conditions and requirements, it should certainly be smart. I'm not in the mood to get under the boot. So, you can get the tow truck to your side, but if you're a smart driver, you need to get out of your way, not to say it's your fault and you're waiting for the tow truck to run you over, but you're in a court of law, it's his fault. So, smart policy, especially a country that's not so big or able to deal with the military and economic powers or regional forces, is actually supposed to run a smart policy. So, to stay away from the boot, even if he wasn't right, smart to accept objections, smart to amortize them, to correct what is possible, to avoid hard words, to avoid defiant words. Too defiant, you know that. I may be one of those MPs most potentiating dignity. And I totally understand when you feel hurt because you've been given a review report that you don't think is either a sharper grade or a harsher word, etc. But defiance was enough. We should be defiant in what our real values are. What's real is, there's no compromise. Principles, moral, spiritual, ethical, human, that's where we need to spend our energy defiance. This is all about diplomacy, and we should just set ourselves up like it's gonna cost us less and get as much as we can. So that's logic in international politics, that's diplomacy. In this regard, this is a procedural thing, but in any case I consider these messages important to refresh our quality and actually walk more stable this way that is coming to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5313	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5314	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, respected colleagues, the composition of the Assembly delegation, as well as the composition of the Assembly committees is in fact the result of an inter-party agreement, the arrangements of parties represented in parliament, and I am sure that each party carefully selects candidates who will propose for members of the composition of certain delegations and certain committees. But although this may be a routine thing for us today, this is still a good opportunity to discuss the work itself and the importance of delegations, the results achieved and the role of parliament in foreign policy. On the agenda is the selection of members of the permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, particularly in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and we elect a member of the parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. And when we talk about this committee, the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, it has a very important role to play, especially now that we are at a time where we are conducting accession negotiations with the EU and I am sure that our colleagues on this committee are doing their job in a good way, in talking to colleagues from the European Parliament exchange experiences, adopt good practice, to represent the results of our work, the areas where we have made the shifts, our plans for the future, but to accept, on the other hand, colleagues from the European Parliament and to see what areas we need to make progress. I used to say that we in parliament often discuss laws and agree in this way our legislation with legislation that is valid in the EU. It is important to speed up the EU accession process. Certainly, the speed of the EU accession process depends largely on ourselves, but we must not ignore the fact and reform EU institutions themselves from time to time. There are many questions to be answered whether the EU will function on the same principle as before, whether it will remain the same criteria in force when it comes to EU enlargement, whether decisions in the EU will be made in the future by the same majority, or by consensus as before, or by some qualified majority that is different from the one that is now. These are just some of the questions that we cannot answer, the European institutions are in charge of it, but in any case, it is up to us to do the best we can to make this process of approaching the EU faster and that we as a society are going for the better. We are also talking today about a delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. We need to consider the fact that when we talk about this issue, that is, co-operation with the NATO Alliance, that this is a very sensitive issue for us, sensitive primarily because of the role of this military alliance in the events in our country two decades ago and with special attention we need to approach this issue. I do not doubt, of course, the ability of our members of the delegation and that they will best represent the interests of our country, but it is very important that we point out when we talk about this topic that we have decided on military neutrality, and even more importantly that our decision respects the greatest forces of the world, or the greatest military force. Military neutrality does not mean that we do not have any co-operation with other military organisations, or other states, it implies that we have as much cooperation as possible. A collaboration that will be primarily in our interest, but also in the interests of the other side. It's one policy that delivers results in practice. I think that's how we, first of all, strengthen our own security, but also preserve the stability of our region. When we talk about this stability, it's important, not just for the sake of military security, and not just from that aspect, it's important for many other things. When we have a stable political legal framework, it also brings stability to the economy. It is the activities of Assembly delegations, certain committees, that are actually activities that are part of parliamentary diplomacy. It is normal for our parliamentary diplomacy to be brought into line with the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it is precisely in this field that very good, intensive co-operation between the representatives of parliament and the representatives of the Foreign Ministry is very important. On the agenda of international relations, it is the parliamentary diplomacy that is taking up one special, prominent place, where interstate relations are maintained and improved through the contacts of parliament representatives. Since parliamentary diplomacy involves working in a large number of institutions, organisations and initiatives, it is in fact an opportunity to work through a number of dynamic foreign policy activities to improve global and regional co-operation. I must point out that our country, a member of the Interparliamentary Union, is as the oldest parliamentary organisation. We have been a full member since 1891, exactly two years since the establishment of the Interparliamentary Union, and also two years ago, here in this house, we successfully organised the 141st Interparliamentary Union meeting, where 150 delegations participated, from around the world, including 77 presidents and 60 vice-presidents of parliaments. We are aware of the importance of foreign policy, as I have already said, especially at a time when we are conducting accession negotiations with the EU, in times of one complex international situation, and therefore should not abandon the role of parliamentary diplomacy. We no longer live in a world of bipolar international political scene and we must respect the political influence of both the United States and Russia, and China, and the state of Brix and, of course, we must respect the impact of EU foreign policy. We are witnessing that lately, an increasingly loud demand for our foreign policy to be brought into line with the EU foreign policy, and I think that in all this we must take care, above all, of our own interest, to approach this issue carefully and most importantly, to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, of course, our delegations, delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and what an important role there is, above all, a delegation in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, delegations in the Council of Europe and they, of course, through their work and how they can demonstrate our interests. It also looks forward to more intensive co-operation with the United States, because of events from the near past, and this is one sensitive issue, but we must not forget, that these relations between Serbia and the United States date much longer, and that we have been in good relations for a long time, that both in the First and Second World War, we were allies, and certainly one step has been made lately and that more intensive co-operation with the United States. We especially need to be careful, especially we need to be wise, when it comes to the question of KIM, of course we need international support. We advocate to solve all problems in a civilized way, to focus on solving everyday life issues, issues concerning the lives of citizens and those in Zvecan, Pristina and Belgrade, and to come up with one solution that will be acceptable to all, and of course we cannot do so without the support of the international community. It is the parliamentary diplomacy that gives more space to those countries that are smaller, countries with fewer inhabitants, to show some of their interests through this work, to point out some specific problems, to adopt some good practices, which can be applied to us through the exchange of experiences with other representatives of parliaments. Of course, in parliamentary delegations, as I have already said, since this is the agreement of all parties represented in parliament, there are both representatives and authorities and opposition. It mainly shows interests at three levels, surely each MP shows his personal interest and some ambition in performing in international delegations. On the second level, they express the interest of their political party, but what is most important should be the state's interest and it is very important to coordinate the work of the delegation members. Unfortunately, often parliamentary delegations, in the media, create an idea that they are not useful, that they are just spending money, but I cannot agree with this view, with this kind of criticism, I simply think that the work of delegations gives concrete results. Often, this work is under media radar, because of some other topics that occupy attention. It is also our obligation to maintain the credibility of the institution through this foreign policy, which is run by the National Assembly, and to contribute to the fact that Parliament is increasingly mentioned in a positive context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5315	National MP Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5316	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the most important legislative body, one of the tasks of the National Assembly is the control of the executive authority, including European integration and negotiations in our country's EU accession process. Although the process ahead of the EU's present adaptation is mainly in the power of the executive authority, the role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has a special and significant place. The activities of the EU candidate countries are mainly about the harmonisation of national legislation, with EU legal assets, co-operation with the European Parliament, co-operation with the parliaments of the Member States, as well as monitoring and monitoring the process of stabilising accession and the negotiation process itself. By entering into force of a Stabilisation of Association Agreement, Serbia has begun fulfilling its obligations, and some new bodies are being formed. At the executive level, they are the Association Stabilisation Council and the Association Stabilisation Committee, which assists in the work of the Council. The National Assembly has good co-operation with the European Parliament and with the parliaments of the Member States, and co-operation has been established since 2004. As for the negotiating process on EU accession, it began in 2014, then the National Assembly adopted a resolution on the role of the National Assembly and adopted basic principles in accession negotiations. The resolution requires that the Committee on European Integration, the working body of the National Assembly, co-ordinate the process of monitoring the negotiations, on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, in co-operation with the president of the National Assembly. In addition to the annual report on Serbia's progress, adopted by the European Commission, the European Parliament adopts a resolution report, proposed by the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia. The resolution does not have a binding character, but it can serve as a guideline in the European integration process. The resolution is interpreted in various ways, and what can be accepted, as an observation, is the need for greater co-operation and talks with all parliamentary clubs, in the European Parliament, especially with the parliamentary clubs of the Social Democrats and the Greens. The resolution, on the one hand, welcomes progress in the economy and regional co-operation, and is open to dialogue with Pristina, and on the other hand criticises the lack of rule of law, freedom and media. They can't stand criticism when it comes to our co-operation with China and Russia, especially at the time of the pandemic and all the problems that have arisen. Not to mention how many paradoxical criticisms are in the supply of vaccines, from China and Russia, and on the other hand, they commend us that we have well organized the system, when it comes to the vaccination of the population. Of course, the report is not for underestimation, but the resolution is in no way binding on Serbia. EU policy, according to Serbia, is being led by the European Commission and the European Council. Minister Joksimovic recently introduced us to a new methodology of negotiations and that all negotiating chapters are now grouped into six clusters. Through the clusters, EU common policies are defined and measured how many candidate countries participate in them. Under this new methodology, the Committee on European Integration and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be given increased responsibility. The Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, where we are changing the composition today, or some members, is a joint body established for parliamentary supervision of the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but also political dialogue at the level of the European Parliament and the National Assembly. The formation of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association has met the basic precondition for continuing the co-operation of the National Assembly and the European Parliament, and thus the launch of the procedure for establishing a new round of dialogue on electoral conditions in Serbia with the intervention of the European Parliament. The Parliamentary Committee has proved to be a good example, that formal co-operation can also successfully enable informal contacts and interactions between the two sides. The Committee members have been almost in the same composition in recent years, allowing parliamentarians to establish trust, make personal contacts through successful co-operation. The Parliamentary Committee shall consist of Members of the National Assembly and Members of the European Parliament. According to the Rules of Procedure on Labour, they meet at least twice a year, once in Belgrade, once in Brussels. Serbia has its representatives in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. We're changing some of them today. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly brings together national parliaments, 28 NATO member states, as well as partner countries. They represent a significant link between NATO and national parliaments and an important instrument of parliamentary diplomacy. Serbia and NATO have developed a strong partnership in practical co-operation over the past decade. This partnership is based on understanding that we are neighbors, that working together with our neighbours on the matter of security makes our citizens safer. This Regulation shall enter into Serbia hosted a major NATO response exercise in the event of accidents that contributed to our common willingness to face emergency situations such as floods, earthquakes, forest fires and so on. NATO and Serbia also agreed two years ago on a new individual Partnership Action Plan for 2019/2021 years ago. The document contains details predicting our co-operation these two years and how NATO will assist Serbia in its reform efforts. It should be noted that Serbia's permanent representation in Brussels is a significant diplomatic body and epicenter from which activities concerning representing Serbia's interests are taking place. The representation allows regular political and professional dialogues between the institutions of the European Union and Serbia, and as such represents a basic communication channel between Belgrade and Brussels. A few months ago, Minister Selakovic suggested that Serbia's diplomacy be refreshed and rejuvened, which is commendable. It certainly requires fresh and energetic personnel to be worthy representatives of a modern democratic Serbia. The Single Serbia parliamentary group will support these changes and proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5317	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5318	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, first of all, I must agree with your presentation and words when you said that co-operation is very important and that little energy can be done, especially when we talk about the activities of parliamentary groups, friendships and especially when we talk about parliamentary diplomacy and parliamentary co-operation. I will begin with the beginnings of Serbian diplomacy appearing back in medieval Serbia, in the late 12th and 13th centuries, and the emergence of modern Serbian diplomacy is inextricably linked to the 1804 Serbian Revolution, which represented one of the most significant events. That's when the beginnings of the first Serbian diplomatic service appear. After obtaining autonomy in Serbia, the first European diplomatic representatives to hold a rank of consul also begin to arrive. This was an important step in establishing full diplomatic relations with the most influential European forces of the 19th century. By law, diplomatic representations and consulates to Serbian abroad from 1879, Serbia began to scold the foundations of its modern diplomacy, which is of great importance and importance. A colleague spoke of the Interparliamentary Union for a short time. Exactly we became a member in 1991, in 1879 an Interparliamentary Union was established and it is the oldest international parliamentary organisation, which represents, I would say, the biggest forum of parliamentarians in which dialogue on peace and co-operation is conducted among peoples, cherishing and promoting the concept of representative democracy, establishing contacts and co-operation, exchanging experiences between parliaments, parliamentarians, discussing issues of international importance, defending and promoting human rights, above all. I would remind Serbia in 2019 hosted the 141st Interparliamentary Union session that brought together, as many as 150 parliamentarians from around the world, which was an important success of parliamentary diplomacy. At that moment, Belgrade was the world capital of all diplomatic events and then the Belgrade Declaration was adopted to preserve and strengthen international rights, above all, regional co-operation. In addition to the Interparliamentary Union, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia participates and has its representatives in ten other parliamentary delegations, and of course we do not reduce the importance and importance of any of these delegations, each of these delegations has some importance and importance. Serbia is also a member of the United Nations, the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, the Partnership for Peace, as well as the CEFTA Agreement, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Organisation for Black Sea Economic Co-operation, the Stability of Southeast Europe Pact and many other international organisations. He also has the status of observers in the World Trade Organisation in the ODKB. The momentum of the modern development of parliamentary diplomacy has given globalisation, strengthening parliamentaryism and multilateralism, modern communication, and above all, the openness of parliaments. This is why parliaments, through their bilateral and multilateral channels, regularly exchange experiences, seek to bring their views into line and adopt objectives and guidelines. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been defined by the Constitution as the most representative body and institution of constitutional and legislative authority, which, by strengthening parliamentary diplomacy, develops international co-operation in order to rightly preserve and develop peace, stability, good neighbourly relations, equal co-operation with peoples and states, both our region and the peoples and countries of the world. Given the growing importance of parliamentaryism and parliamentary diplomacy in the global context, I would like to stress that the parliamentary component of the relationship is an important aspect in addressing a number of current challenges, first and foremost of the modern era, I would say. The beginning of this century marked events that changed the world and showed the inability to predict risks and threats, which exceeds the frameworks of states, which exceed the frameworks of the region, which exceed the frameworks of continents, as is the case with the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. In addition, the world faces a number of other challenges, such as the economic crisis, instability, migration, terrorism, global climate change and others that threaten to change the current state of affairs and require both answers and dialogue for all, a common commitment to solidarity in order to preserve common values. These issues cannot be viewed separately, that is, simply and effectively, because they affect everything and have multiple consequences, which suggests a connection, which indicates intertwination and which points to the interdependence of the state. As a result, more than ever, it becomes imperative to exchange information at all levels, achieve co-operation and provide one, most honestly, I would say help and support in order to find answers to existing and future challenges. I would like to point out in particular that Serbia is pushing for a common, comprehensive and united approach to the challenges that all countries are facing, because that is the best way to protect the interests of each and every single country. Facing the challenges, Serbia is working responsibly to develop co-operation at all levels, at regional, European and of course globally. It is precisely the crisis caused by the coronary virus that has also shown regional and international reputation for Serbia, the pandemic has proved the success of Serbian foreign policy, relying on China, relying on Russia, of course, and on the EU, I do not want to ignore it at all. The National Assembly is in principle and consistently in line with the state policy of the Republic of Serbia in favour of achieving the principle of equality, as well as free equal co-operation on the international stage, without using sanctions as an instrument of coercion. This is particularly true of parliamentary institutions and organisations. We believe that solutions must be sought, first of all through dialogue, because dialogue certainly has no alternative, which has to be confirmed over and over again as the best and only right way to find a solution, for what they are at some point open issues. Serbia is determined that, in the future, it consistently and unconditionally advocates respect for the fundamental principles of international relations, that responsible and solidarity, above all, develops co-operation at all levels, with all our friends, as well as interested partners. In this regard, the position of the Republic of Serbia is very transparent and focused on achieving a top goal, active and progressive action towards preserving and promoting peace and stability. The result of our friendship is a profiled Serbia as, above all, responsible, as reliable, as safe, as stable, as a predictable partner in the international community, ready to participate in all important and significant talks. It is true that Serbia's strategic commitment and one of Serbia's key foreign policy goals is membership in the EU, but it is also true that Serbia has as one of the key foreign policy objectives to strengthen and maintain relations with traditionally friendly countries. So, the EU, but with respect to territorial integrity and sovereignty. That's what I was talking about yesterday. So Serbia shows determination and determination on the path of European integration. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has confirmed this determination and commitment on the path of European integration, but whether we will become a member and when Serbia will become an EU member does not depend definitely on what Serbia does and does, what the institutions in Serbia do and do. Although we were fully prepared for the opening of the chapter last year, unfortunately, the chapters are not open. We are not pleased when some European parliamentarians say they are glad that in the previous year Serbia did not open any chapters, but, on the contrary, we will continue our European integration path. We will continue as we have so far to confirm our international credibility by making the commitments we have made on the path of European integration continue to be realised, but I will repeat, a well-intentioned partnership is needed. So, we've never been afraid of negotiations, but we don't negotiate and talk out of fear. One of the key issues arises is the issue of the southern province of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija. In this regard, I stress that the Republic of Serbia will continue to defend its territorial integrity and sovereignty, defending universal principles of international law. I would particularly point out that Serbia, thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic's successful policy in the previous period, as well as then Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, had the result that 18 states recognized Kosovo's independence and this is a huge success and a great result of the policy of continuity and orientation towards the future. It is not the essence of numbers, it is not the essence here that today's number, when we talk about the UN Security Council Assembly, under half, is the essence of finally realizing that without Serbia there is no compromise and solution when we talk about the Kosovo and Metohija issue and the essence is that someone realizes that Serbia finally has the right and the ability to say something, not just to watch them take away part by piece of territory. I would point out that the parliamentary aspect of bilateral and multilateral co-operation is very important, as parliamentarians as direct representatives of citizens, content co-operation and quality parliamentary dialogue can make an exceptional contribution to improving countries' relations, as well as to initiating and stimulating co-operation where it is not sufficiently developed. Parliaments play an important role in improving and maintaining peace and security as a result of their key position in democratic societies, because through interparliamentary dialogue, they improve co-operation between countries and peoples, which is what the parliament of the Republic of Serbia is fully committed to. I believe that parliamentarians will contribute to strengthening Parliament's place and role in international policy. There have been several findings here that I must fully agree with in the end, to move more seriously to co-operation through, above all, parliamentary groups of friendships in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because there is really little we can do and much to do, first of all, as representatives of citizens. I also want to say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the highest form of multilateral and bilateral co-operation with two states and is unique in relations with the two countries. This is the overall National Congress of the People's Republic of China and with the State Dum, or the Russian Federation, where it has a Commission for Co-operation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, how much it is, a colleague has been saying for a while that we should adapt foreign policy, that we always have, not to say imperative, but we always have some suggestions and suggestions from the EU that we should adapt our foreign policy to the EU, but yet I think that it is quite clear, and the President of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia lead one balanced foreign policy, Serbia is an independent, independent state and runs an independent state that is in the best interest of its citizens, because the pandemic period has just shown that when the most difficult you can rely on two things. The first thing is their own resources and the second thing is relations with traditionally friendly states. For the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this represents, when we talk about the highest form of bilateral co-operation, great honor and great satisfaction, but of course the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is open to co-operation and with parliaments of other states, because, I say, co-operation is the key to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5319	MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5320	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, when we talk about the election of members of parliamentary committees and delegations, at the very beginning I must point out that the Serbian Progressive Party MP group, Aleksandar Vukic, will support these proposals for our children. As always, we will also support proposals coming from our side or coalition partners, but we will also support future and proposals coming from the opposition, because this is an indicator of democracy in practice, because, as a fellow previous speaker pointed out, an indication of agreement, good co-operation and an indicator of one basic parliamentaryism, where each party can be represented on different committees or delegations. Unfortunately, what is a sign of democracy and democracy is not always on the other side. We had the opportunity, though at some lower levels of decision-making, for example, when it came to municipal assemblies or the Belgrade City Assembly, we had the opportunity to see that Dragan Gilas, along with his fellow Members, was against such proposals. Even in certain situations that are protocolary, where it is necessary that decisions of the Administrative Committee, when it comes to the allocation of the mandate of the committee, the Assembly, he and his committees were against, although in the opposite situation, or in other roles, when it was necessary to confirm the mandates of the representatives of his Union, SNS voted in favour. It only shows you what democracy is for them, how they see democracy and how they see the functioning of parliamentaryism in general. When you consider all this, there is only one question – what would their democracy look like, what would parliamentaryism be like if they were in some case most today and if any new opposition had the right to exist, let alone discuss something, let alone disagree with their opinion, action or ideas? It is particularly important to stress that the committees within the Serbian Parliament have their special weight and they can in many ways help function and facilitate the functioning of competent ministries and state organisations, but also state bodies. Article 44. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly have defined all the rights and obligations of the Assembly committees. When we talk about this, we need to point out one very important thing, which is that the people we delegate to these committees today must first of all be safe, must be responsible, be committed to this work and must always be guided by truth, justice, but above all by the interests of the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens. Speaking of truth and justice, we cannot look back on one fact, which is that in our country today there is a party called the Freedom and Justice Party headed by Dragan Gilas. Where you will have a larger paradox than this fact that his party is called the Freedom and Justice Party, and that he is synonym for both falsehood and injustice. I'm not saying this. Don't say this. Don't say this. Don't say this. This is what the facts that we only pass on to the citizens of Serbia say. And if we haven't repeated all these facts enough times, here we can go at the shortest possible time through some facts and go through some things that we're all aware of today. The question for Serbian citizens is very simple. Is it unfair that during the time of Dragan Gilas's government, the factories are closed, 500 thousand people, half a million people are out of work, and Dragan Gilas's companies are only growing from day to day and earning 619 million incomes on which accounts, which, by any means of business, are mostly governmental with state and institutions and with state televisions first? Is it an injustice when in these same companies employees of Dragan Gilas have salaries of between thousands, 2,000 euros or even 3,000 euros, while Serbian citizens work for 15 or 20,000 euros in the period until 2011, and these salaries, huge salaries in Gilas's businesses, are paid out of the Serbian citizens' budgets they were kidnapped? Is it injustice and that, and you'll agree that when everything goes down in our country, everything goes down, when everything collapses, Dragan Gilas plays interesting geography by visiting various world destinations and there is millions of dollars there from Mauritius through Switzerland to Hong Kong? Is it also an injustice when you, as mayor, damage 15 000 families by making a radical decision, double their kindergartens, and then leave your city in that way, so this city government has paid more than 30m euros today, and in this way, because of your reckless decision, you have denied the city of Belgrade for about 15 new kindergartens? Is it an injustice, too, but you will agree that it is, that you are in charge of the city of Belgrade by a billion and 200m euros while parallel to that, in which tendered, brotherly, friendly, burassing combinations, as the people say, embezzle tens of millions of euros? I can talk about this injustice much more and I can spend not only the time of our parliamentary group, but all the time foreseen for the debate and still there would be not enough time to tell about what kind of injustice it was, what injustice Dragan Gilas committed against citizens, not only Belgrade, but all citizens of Serbia. When we talk about the truth, and this same Dragan Gilas has only said ten large lies in the last month alone. Since he didn't say he wasn't going to vaccinate, yet he was inoculating, saying he never said he didn't have bills in Switzerland, and yet there is, so everything in a circle, in a circle, until he got involved in his own lies, and then he pushed his employee, Marinik Tepic, to continue making up a new affair, and all of a sudden he couldn't stand up to the responsible, strong, stable and advanced politics of the Serbian government, but above all President Alexander Vukic. How many lies and lies have entered their daily lives and how much they no longer know what they are going to do, speak and the fact that even on their site, in their famous programs "We have a plan for the day after", "We have a plan for a good life", "We have a plan for a stronger economy", showed all their hypocrisy and showed how ready they are to lie even, where you can determine by clicking on a computer to determine what lies they are working on, so let's go in line. "We have a plan for the day after," in addition to the opening fairy tale, therefore, everything in them is a fairy tale of some emotional statements, they find themselves right and they say this – we will invest 500m euros in a better life of people through the modernisation and construction of new schools, hospitals, health homes, kindergartens, regional roads, municipal infrastructures and irrigation channels. So those who have ruined our country, who have not been able to, not home to health, one infirmary to derail, now promise to invest some 500m euros for a better life. I don't want to talk about roads, because the roads at the time of their government were more like, they were kaldrma and they looked like those, sometimes called them, the country roads or a road that wasn't defined by the plan. They now promise citizens they will invest 500m euros. Please pay attention to the 500m-euro figure. So this is the first page. Then they guarantee, imagine they guarantee, we root out party employment, so you brand it, you make party employment. How you hired people, from moms, dads, brothers, sisters, godmothers, so you just haven't hired cats to hunt mice in municipalities yet, but they had to be DS members. Yesterday we heard that your party colleagues were elected judges and you are now going to fight it. Where's the end of hypocrisy? He says - we will elect a special prosecutor to fight corruption against public officials, president of the Republic, etc. Gentlemen, why didn't you do this while you were in power, what have you been waiting for? The right question is – shouldn't you have done it in order not to endanger your Dragan Gilas? If we go any further, does this mean that Gilas will hypothetically arrest himself when he comes to power? Come on, please, don't be so hard to joke about, nobody can believe this. To ban public work from those who have been in the service of the criminal regime. Gentlemen, dear MPs, everyone who sits here today, that has nothing to do with the criminal regime, that they're trying to satanize us all, you, gentlemen dear, will be discriminated against and you, be careful now, will be forbidden to do any public work. So, just because you've been elected by the citizens, and they're watching, is that, that you're part of a criminal regime, you'll be banned from public work. Now watch this: We will adopt a law on the origin of the property so that everyone who is illegally rich at the expense of the people of the property may be taken away. I didn't think I'd say this, but I agree with you in this part. You've missed one thing – the property origin law has been passed, applied since 12 March, but I agree here with you. I absolutely agree that all the property that has been illegally acquired, and I hope that the citizens of Serbia will see very quickly with the functioning of the competent institutions that should be returned to the people. What Dragan Gilas took from the people, I think it would be a good idea, and I would appreciate this proposal, to return to the citizens. No, well, let's move on. He says now "We have a plan for a good life", a part of the fairy tale goes again, doctors will have a salary of 1,000 euros, in 2011 the doctor's salary was 52,000, and today it is 106,000. The nurse will have a salary of 600 euros, while they were in power, when they were able to do so, was the salary of 29,000 dinars, today it is 54,000. The teacher will have 700 euros in 2011 in their time, therefore, while Gilas could carry out all this was 38,000 dinars, while today it is 60,000. They also say a minimum salary of 350 euros at their time in 2011, 172 euros, and today 273 euros. So, gentlemen, all of what you're saying today as a fairy tale, you had a chance to do when you were in power, however, the figures say the opposite. Please pay attention now. So this is the second branch of the same site, the same promotion, the same plan and programme -- we're going to invest a billion euros in a better life for people through modernization, construction, so all that same thing just this once billion euros. For the very end, the plan for a stronger economy, and now it's all going round and round, repeating the same numbers. However, the soldier will have a salary of 600 euros. In 2011, he had 276 euros, while today 360, deputy in 2011, is 370 euros, today 486, officer 558 euros in 2011, today 680 euros. I'm asking you -- what are you talking about today that you didn't do? And I'm going to ask you that again. But for the very end of their fairy tales, they come back and say – we will invest 500m euros in a better life for people through the modernisation and construction of new schools, hospitals, health homes. So, my people, on the same page in the same program of the same party on three clicks away, people embezzle 500m euros. First they say, we're going to invest 500 million, so they say a billion, and then they say 500m euros. It's your policy when you get used to playing with millions, when you get used to embezzling them so easily, here you are even in the program to embezzle 500 million euros, and we wonder where Dragan Gilas' money comes from. What I also want to point out today is the fact why their plan and programme is called "In the Day After". People, you represent the previously, unfortunately, ugly past of Serbia by 2012. The Serbian Progressive Party did not inherit in the spirit of your fairy tales to Snow White and seven Dwarves, but inherited the Democratic Party and your regime. If you're going to use the language of fairy tales and cartoons, you can only remind us of Alibab and 40 robbers in whom, no doubt, is known who Alibaba is. Just explain why your campaign isn't called today -- a new chance for the Democratic Party? Why isn't your campaign called - to pick up where we left off? Why don't you say we go back to where we were in 2012? Well, you'll never do it because you know that even this 1%, if you have so many, you wouldn't get to honestly go out to the citizens of Serbia and tell the truth, which is that you're responsible for ruining our country in every way and every sense. I am confident, I will end it, and I am convinced that in the upcoming elections, Serbian citizens will vote for one of these things, and they will not allow cheap demagogy, petty politics and the attempt of Dragan Gilas to play a card of forgetfulness, or I don't know what kind of collective amnesia, to slow them down and bring them back to power in those dark times of misery and poverty when it all went to waste, and only he got rich. That is why I am convinced that in the next elections as much as we strive to lie, untruely, to invent the results and to reduce the results achieved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by responsible policy by President Aleksandar Vukic, it will not succeed in doing so, and in doing so Dragan Gilas and his other employees and parliaments, these bulls of the former DS regime, will not be able to participate in the further humiliation of our country, as they did during the period of power, because, don't forget, which by spitting our country and foreign embasssies and moaning at different addresses they still today as opposition do everything to harm our country. To the people who will be elected today as members of these committees and delegations, I want a lot of success, I want them to work committed, committed, and, as I just said before, I want them to work first and foremost, only in the interest of the citizens of the Republic and of our Serbia. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5321	The word is made by Vice-President of the National Assembly and Parliament of the People Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5322	Thank you, Vice President. The presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to apologize to the largest parliamentary group, since it is not a practice that, after their authorised representative, one of the other authorised representatives gets the floor, but that is precisely because I am personally a member of one of the delegations, which we are discussing today, or member, currently parallel to an online session of the board, so I have not arrived before. I'm really sorry about that. It wasn't my plan. I really planned on talking earlier. As an authorised representative of the SVM Parliamentary Group when we are already discussing three points, and one of which is, we call it the PDO or the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, I will try somehow to bring the citizens and the media closer, which is actually the CAP and its importance, because I think we are doing a little bit of this and I will talk very little about delegations. One of the respected previous speakers said – I could for hours. I'm like someone who's 14 years old, for example. in the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I could talk for hours about these topics and look forward to it that so far this has not been a practice, but that today we have the opportunity to talk about the importance of parliamentary diplomacy and to stress the importance of, say, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Parliamentary Committee itself. The desire to become a member of the EU is a result of a truly strong commitment to the ideas, values and achievements on which the EU is based. EU membership, as we often hear and what is the fact, is the strategic goal of the Republic of Serbia, which is at the same time also a means by which Serbia modernises both its legal and its economic and institutional system. Accession involves the acceptance of the rights and obligations on which the Union is founded, as well as its institutional framework, as we often use, of EU legal assets. In addition, it is not only enough to comply with the legislation, but to access the terms of both timely and effective implementation of these laws, including effective full application of harmonised laws. As I mentioned, one of the most significant basic documents is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. By signing the agreement, the Republic of Serbia has indeed committed itself to gradually harmonising its legislation with EU legal flows, as well as their consistent application. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement or the SAA was signed in 2008, more specifically on 29 April 2008. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this high house ratified the SAA in September, 9 September 2008. Respecting just the commitments made by the agreement, the Republic of Serbia decided to start on the very beginning of next year, in 2009 and on January 30th, for its part, the so-called start-up. unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement and liberalisation of trade with the EU. Following certain procedures by the EU, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement itself came into force in 2013 at the end of September 1, 2013, which gave our country, the Republic of Serbia, the status of the EU's associated state. Why am I talking about this point? It was precisely because the co-operation of this home, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the European Parliament, was institutionalised, of course until then in another form, but then raised to a higher level, a higher institutional level just by setting up a CAP or by these Parliamentary Committees for Stabilisation and Association of Serbia and the European Parliament at the same time by the entry into force of the SAA in 2013 -- the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, on the one hand, of the European Community, of its Member States, on the other hand, is the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 12. The SSP's political dialogue at the parliamentary level takes place within the framework of this said parliamentary committee, which is neither a classical committee nor a classical delegation, but something between it and something specific. It is made up of MPs of both the European Parliament and the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the same number, 15 and 15 members, in line with the agreement, as we heard in one of the previous exhibitions, in line with the agreement of political groups. Of course, the position and opposition are always presented. When they are normal, as we would call peacetime, this parliamentary committee meets at least twice a year. It is a practice for him to meet once in Strasbourg and once in Belgrade. In the last year and a half, we've all known about the pandemic with the coronary virus, and the sessions of this body are organized in online form. The last session was held in this session in January this year, when our members of the delegations, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works, were present but not physically, but in online form with representatives of the European Parliament, as their rules are such that they are not yet travelling. It is a practice for a joint declaration and recommendations to be made at the end of each POS meeting, which is extremely important to the Stabilisation and Association Council, as well as to the official institutions of both the Republic of Serbia and the EU. We in the SVM parliamentary group believe that the CAP is an excellent way to strengthen institutional ties. Therefore, the CAP is a platform for a better understanding of Serbia's political direction, promoting the views of our parliamentary parties in terms of respect for EU standards and values, as well as, once again, the strategic goal of the Republic of Serbia, which is membership, full membership in the EU. A few more things to explain. So, the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association was actually formed on the basis of the European Parliament President's Decision of 3 October and 2013, which I mentioned, as well as the Decisions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the establishment of the SPS from 6 November 2013, as well as the SAA itself, or the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In this way, the parliamentary committee itself, but also the National Assembly itself, means the tide, has a stronger and direct connection with colleagues from the European Parliament. This is a good way, the possibility of information coming directly from Serbia to European officials without any mediators. The practice is so, and it is indeed working, that the parliamentary committee is chaired by a member of the European Parliament and a member of our committee or a president who has been a long time now and vice-president of the National Assembly, Dr Vladimir Orlic. The session, when times are normal, lasts even a day and a half and indeed changes the Presidency by the European Parliament and ours. Lately, I say, these online sessions are unfortunately shorter and we haven't even brought a joint declaration in a few months, but we hope to continue our normal work and that in this meeting and this year we will first have a minimum of two sessions of this body. The purpose of the parliamentary committee is parliamentary control of the whole process and what is also extremely important, giving democratic legitimacy through the introduction of the National Assembly to all elements of the process. As it's known and as is currently known, there's been a lot of talk lately about it. Speaking of the European Parliament and, just a few weeks ago, the resolution was passed or the European Parliament Report in Serbia, so there is a report by the European Commission annually on the so-called "European Parliament". The progress announced in September, October and afterwards, the European Parliament is preparing a report late March 25th, 26th and a resolution on Serbia, in this case. The European Parliament resolution, it is important to emphasise, does not have a binding character, but it does serve as an important message policy, both for the country itself in the European integration process, means in our case for us and for the EU member states. In the SVM, we believe that enlargement is the most important tool of the EU's common foreign policy, but unfortunately we all need to be aware that enlargement is not a priority right now and that the EU, so its most important body, the government, as you like it, the European Commission is dealing with itself, looking for solutions for its own problems that have started, first economically, then some internal crisis, which is all strengthened by the natural and migrant crisis, Bregzito, relations with the United States, here mentioned Russia and China, and unfortunately in the last, now perhaps a year and a half, with the Kovid 19 pandemic. The integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU is indeed a continuous main foreign political priority and strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia. It's one of those processes that enjoys the support of most citizens still. Of course it has fallen quite recently, but since we have regular research organised by the European Integration Ministry, we know that citizens' support is always about 50%, whether it is 51.52, 53%, and I think it is important to stress that all parliamentary parties who are here for the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU call on this. I find it important to stress that all of us in this process have a responsibility. The responsibility to be aware of our roles in this process, the responsibility to act in accordance with the clear competences and obligations arising from the electoral legitimacy. Fulfilling the political criteria, as they are most talked about is not only a precondition for joining the EU, but meeting the political criteria should also be a decision of every functioning society. Political criteria provide the most important factors, which is the citizens' trust in their institutions that we still need to work on unfortunately. The citizens' trust in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is quite low. A little more on the European Parliament itself. We are aware that the last elections for the European Parliament were in May 2019 and that this is the new so-called Now may not be so new, but the new European Parliament's summit, which lasts from 2019 to 2024, proves that despite the Euroscepticism that has emerged in the EU Member States themselves, pro-European forces are still strong. They have received the majority, although the current coalition in the European Parliament is very charolic. However, it must be emphasized that the current, current, therefore the Ninth Assembly of the European Parliament has a rather altered structure in the European Parliament itself, as well as here in the National Assembly 60% of the MEPs, and so on. MEPs, members of the European Parliament are new, so for the first time they are in the post. This means that the new assembly from 2019 to 2024 brought a lot of changes to the European Parliament in terms of people, persons who are dealing with Serbia, who are following. We know that for many years the current president of Afeta, their Committee on Foreign Affairs, David McAllister, has been a rapporteur for Serbia, but in this session we have a new rapporteur from Slovakia, again from the European People's Party Vladimir Bilchik. When we talk about the role of the National Assembly, in the process of European integration of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear that the National Assembly in this process plays a first control role, but also legislative in terms of meeting its obligations, harmonising legislation and the mentioned Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as well as the obligations of the EU's National Programme for the adoption of legal flows, and we keep track of what process it is actually fulfilled. The particularly important aspect of the work of the National Assembly that we are talking about today is also an extremely important parliamentary diplomacy that opens up space again for political dialogue and to consider really various issues from the European integration process and beyond. Through parliamentary diplomacy, the EU's approach to co-operation is facilitated, first of all, with countries of the region, neighbours, EU member states, as well as with parliamentary parliaments, both European and international organisations. A few were mentioned here in previous exhibitions, I would not like to measure the importance, we now have a delegation on the agenda in NATO, but I know that all MPs were new, whether old, extremely dedicated and business in those delegations. I am sorry that the media, the public are not monitoring enough this important job, but usually attacks MPs who are in these delegations, because they spend a lot of money on travel, hotels, etc. It may not be current in the last year and a half, but believe it or not, without traveling, we've been working in these delegations, and in online form for several months in this session. Slowly to conclude, since I was most concerned with European integration in the presentation of the CAP itself, the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association with European Integration, I would like to remind once again of a much more significant report by the European Commission than the European Parliament's report, or the European Parliament resolution, which was last published in October last year. This tall house was discussing him at the end of December this year. Let me just mention, once again, to underline those recommendations or, if we want to, criticisms that applied to the National Assembly itself and respond partially to them. Because, in this Report of the European Commission, it is said, the part relating to the work of the National Assembly, that it is necessary to strengthen the control role of the executive authority, which I believe we are constantly doing, to enhance the efficiency of Parliament's independence and transparency, and to continue the commitment to the inter-party dialogue of the authorities and the opposition, which is under way in 2019/20. a year led by the European Parliament's intervention. I would remind all of us to continue this dialogue next week. Also, they were praised in this report and steps taken to address labour shortages, such as reducing emergency procedures. We haven't put anything on the agenda since the beginning of this year by emergency procedure. It also states that it is necessary to continue the practice of reviewing the report on the work of independent regulatory bodies, which we did in late December and because there are already some reports in the assembly procedure, which we will continue to do, and that the parent committees form conclusions based on these reports, and we should also follow the implementation of recommendations and conclusions in these reports, and that the implementation of these recommendations should be monitored by the executive bodies. As part of our control role, the National Assembly also mentioned public hearings, since we had a period two years ago, when there was an extremely low number of public hearings in the congregation. I am pleased that these weeks we can see, these days, that mostly in the preparatory phase, and later in the implementation phase of some laws, is an increasingly common practice that parent committees, competent committees, here in the Assembly are organising public hearings and that there is really a wide dialogue. To conclude, of course, the SVM parliamentary group will support these harmonised proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5323	Since we no longer have registered presidents and authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are now moving on to the list of speakers. MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5324	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, academics Zukorlic, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are talking about the composition of a delegation in international parliamentary institutions. It is clear from the very title that the matter is procedural and technical, and the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia, will vote in favour of the proposals, as well as our MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party will support this point. The top critics of the state summit and the president of the state and government, when it comes to international politics, cannot find any basis for criticism. When we talk about co-operation with international institutions, what is the role of parliament, parliamentary delegations, the group of friendships is that this policy is created by the president of the state, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that we certainly follow and step up this co-operation at the level at which parliamentary delegations can and can. Of course, the range of action is very large. As we know, in the greatest relations between the largest statesmen, this personal note is very present and it is therefore very important that our parliamentarians be involved and that they really represent the state and what our interests are. It is certainly good that we have friends in both the East and the West, that we have improved and raised to the highest possible level when it comes to relations with Russia and China, when it comes to the Muslim world which is the developmental chance of our economy, where our companies are traditionally present, but also the US, and especially Europe and the EU are something that must be a strategic commitment, especially the EU where we do not belong only geographically, the EU is something that we must belong primarily to. This parliament, this assembly and everyone else has a key role to play, and when it comes to the adoption of the law, so we are not responsible, the government is responsible, but the speed that we adopt laws, laws that respect the procedure and the public has 15 days to get acquainted with their content. I think this Parliament and this assembly are absolutely respecting it. What is important besides international co-operation, and I want to commend, this conference is a dislocating of meetings, colleges outside this building and outside Belgrade. That's what happened in Valyev. I expect it to happen in Sanjak, too, to hold that session in Novi Pazar and other parts of our country. Why? It is very important that citizens and citizens in our country get acquainted with the work of parliament and that more often resolution committees are held outside Belgrade. It is very important that we get to know about the work of Parliament, about our competences, about what the problems of citizens and citizens are, because I remember that college in Valjevo, I think these issues from the field of people from the base are essential issues that we need to delegate here, and when it comes to the issues of the Government, the Prime Minister and the relevant ministries. In voting day, we'll vote on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5325	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5326	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, dear Serbian citizens, spoke of the importance of this topic that was not often discussed in parliament, not because there was no reason, but because some things always seem a little more important. However, I do think and will support all the discussions that went in this direction that it is very important to take care of who the members are and who makes up the composition of delegations and committees, and for that there are many reasons. We have examples of practices that support how important it is when they are well-elected people and we have examples of practices that contribute to how much damage we pay when unprofessional people refer to positions they have received without distinction whether we are talking about the trust that citizens have shown them by choosing them as MPs or about the trust we show them as their colleagues. It seems to me that counterpart Jovanovic was talking about agreeing mostly with the party consensus on who would be part of the delegation. Why these people are important except for what the Vice-President of the Assembly said, and that was one such wide cross-section of what delegations represent and, above all, the work of our delegation when it comes to the European Parliament. But what I want to put an accent on by warning all of us, and I'm not doing it for the first time, and I'm not going to do it for the last time, I'm going to talk about it whenever I have a chance, is that we have to look around and look at some examples that point to one of our failures that we can't get rid of, and that's the fact that, in some period behind us, we've had in these positions people who aren't using their time and their position to speak one truth about Serbia, we've been brought into a situation that, otherwise, with one tendency and an environment and an international factor that we're being satanized by our silence, we contribute to doing so in a good way and it seems. We had such an attempt, if you remember, a lawsuit that came back to us as a boomerang. And in order not to analyze how diplomatic a failure was above all and above all the wrong question, I'm going to say what the consequences are. It could be spoken on that subject from completely other angles, it could be spoken in a way that you prepare for something, could and must be spoken first of all, and that is a reminder to all of you, and also to you distinguished colleagues that we choose today, which we will choose in the day of voting, which we show trust in first of all our discussions, we need to move out of what is personal, however much we sometimes have that kind of approach. What does it mean when, at any cost, you want to even something that is neither state nor will ever be given to importance, today they write a newspaper, yesterday's Security Council session and a certain representative of Kosovo's so-called. the institution in the UN. So many lies were told yesterday, but with so much desire to convince the international public that it's true, I'm staying for who knows which time is completely shocked. An accent has been placed on some kind of torture against the current prime minister, so-called. Kosovo's Alibino Kurti's government, which he says has been constantly harassed in prison for more than two years as a student. You can't see that bullying, but you've seen other shortcomings before, but I'm not taking on the role of those who went to school for it. Then there are 20 thousand raped Albanian women, about which countless times has been written, spoken, told all kinds of lies, but also denied. Then an example of some of the people’s MPs is given in the current assembly of the so-called so-called so-called Parliament. congregations of the so - called “Courtesy ” The Kosovos that are victims don't know what kind of violence and I don't know what genocide. But it is said in the finals, advisedly in relation to Serbia and the Serbian parliament, that we should get out of the past, the dark one, "because we keep ourselves in the dark and this leads us to racism, fascism and genocide". And it's said that we'll do it faster if we clear up with war criminals, not that they're sitting in our parliament right now. I don't know, esteemed colleagues, who of you is a war criminal, of us, obviously could be anyone and it's not absolutely important, nor is the person who spoke important, it's a discussion that's spoken at the Security Council session and there's that danger. Someone doesn't hesitate to tell a lie for a moment. My fundamental question – then why do we have a problem telling the truth at a certain point as representatives of our country? Then why don't we just leave ourselves some room so someone doesn't like us or like us? To deal with the truth, I will try to help all of us who are members of the delegation, all of us who are representatives in one way or another, and in the end to all of us who, one of our colleagues before me, are members of the parliamentary groups of friendships that I think are also very important and I think you spoke of it, Vice President, just you. It's important to talk to our colleagues, because this direct contact can break prejudice. We had a great experience when the Emir Group of Friendships were at stake, we participated in it together. There are differences between us, but the differences we need to talk about and the differences we need to overcome. I am going back to this discussion, not because it is important, but because Kosovo online publishes 14. 04. that the young man was attacked, and at the moment he was in the company of the girl and sister, they were not injured, but he did. He was attacked on his way home, about 22 hours ago. So we're not talking about any time I don't know how late. He was attacked by three Albanians, he said. My proposal for all those who would like to deal with politics at international level and did not come out of their local community – they improvised the state, so it would be good to even consider how this wild west of which is headed works. This is important to us because of our representatives, because of people who are non-Albanians, because of people who are exposed to various tortures, and it has nothing to do with religion or the nation anymore. I think they're slowly falling into a whirlwind that says they're counting on each other in a brutal way, even among the Albanian population themselves, depending on what kind of political option they belong to. What is absolute news to me is the data that I, and once again, do not do it for the first time, I will secondly commend the Office for Kosovo and Metohija in this meeting because I have asked the question on two occasions and in both cases I have received the answer which I believe is the historical document. You'll remember who was in the O.R. that I asked if they happen to own information about how much Serbian land is usurped on KIM, how much land can't be processed or the owners don't even know what's going on with that land and who's been processing it and who's getting a great answer, full of data, here, it looks like this, on four full sides of A-4 formats, and it's scary. First, on three occasions, UNMIK itself created certain agencies and organisations that should deal with the issue of KIM property. In all three cases, it was a completely unsuccessful attempt. The first agency to be created is the DSI – Directorate for Residential Property Affairs, and according to the allegations, they made it right then to show how unrecorded Albanian land is under the pressure of the bad laws of the Republic of Serbia, etc., from the 1990s. What did the practice show? Practice has shown that 29,155 requests for return of immovable residential property, houses and apartments were submitted from 2000 to 2006. What is important is that Albanian requirements in this case that have been categorized as case A, since the requirements of non-Albanians have been categorized as category C, so in the A category, they have only had 1,212 applications. They built an agency that denied them. So then DSI was replaced by the Kosovo Property Agency in 2006, with the task of solving cases of asset usurpation. The Kosovo Property Agency, unlike the previous one, was competent to solve both the under-sourted land and the business premises in addition to houses and apartments, and then fell into a whirlwind in which 42.116 demands were filed by Serbs and non-Albanians living in KIM. Of all the cases I'm talking about here, all the three agencies that were created have solved one. I can't turn that into a percentage, and I'm not talking about this by accident. This is what I am talking about to all members of delegations, to all members of parliamentary groups, to all members and groups of friendships, because these are the data that is required by every MP of the Serbian state to say aloud – except that we have usurped territory, we have, according to this data, over 54% of the land that is in the state, which is in private property that is absolutely usurped. This is not a data that doesn't have our technical dialogue team. I'm sure he does, but I'm just not sure at what point someone's gonna have to talk about this. All of this I am saying, not for the sake of us who, in most cases, know this, I am almost certain that there is no MP in the Republic of Serbia who does not know this, but for the sake of the public, who today might not understand why we are talking about the importance of representatives of the Republic of Serbia in delegations, who does not understand how much harm can be done, someone who does not know the problem, someone who does not want to deal with the problem, and someone who uses his position exclusively for self-pronouncement. As much as this story of mine, at this point it looks dry, it's very much on the subject, this is a question of all the issues of the Republic of Serbia, this is the most open wound the Republic of Serbia has, and this is the topic on which they try to respect every day what kind of nonsense, bringing us back to some kind of past that they improvise or create a future that they would like. From this data, it actually springs strength to defend everything that we defend on a daily basis, to defend ourselves against congratulations on Statehood Day, which are unequivocal and who know that it explains to us that our task is just to accept something, not to say at any time what the other side of this medal is. What would happen if we talked about the victims in the Serbian parliament? I don't think there's any need for that, but I just don't have, unfortunately, the time, because behind me my colleague Diana is going to talk about again no less important segment of this whole story. We need to become aware of the fact that as much as we have political differences, ideological differences, and we have them, and it's natural to have them, one brain leads nothing, there are topics that we need to be unanimous and express, and they're called both national interest and national attitude. These things should be a national attitude. If we don't wear it out of the house, as an education, then we'd have to practice it, when we allow ourselves the luxury of taking over some function, so that we don't make huge mistakes, which even 10 years later, can't be corrected, but come back to us, as a defacto state, for God's sakes the judgment of the international court, just because we're ignorant, we haven't asked the wrong question. The whole first part of my discussion was, uh, referring to exactly that. Out of our open questions that are very precise and very difficult, we've been asking the unblemished, and where there's no questions, where the state isn't, where the mass of things hasn't happened, it's been spinning for 30 years, continuously. Maybe it's not bad that sometimes in a moment we overwrite certain things, not because they're smart, but because it seems to me that this is a time where it also drinks water. I will indeed end up not exaggerating the time I will use, but apart from stressing that, and said by the president of the parliamentary group, the SPS MPs will certainly support the proposal. Once again, I urge that we rise above party differences at any cost. I'm not just saying this because of us being in the O.R., I'm saying this because of everyone else who's been watching this over TV or having their own reports from the Assembly meeting. Let's get out of daily politics when there are some important topics and become serious representatives of our people because Serbia is a serious country. If we count out loud from unserious positions, we'll hardly get to him. If we get to him, it can be expensive paid and severely punished. So, thank you for your attention, thank you for understanding this subject, but I will especially thank you if one day we really show that we have risen above all the mistakes behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5327	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5328	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Dr Orlic, honourable MPs, it is very important to decide on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, among other things, because of the international activities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in order to strengthen the international reputation of our country. I must say that the former government, decorated in Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, left us with an economic, infrastructure-based industrial devastation. Today, the country, Serbia, is economically, infrastructureally, industrially at an envious level. The former government of Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Dilas and Boris Tadic left us a country with a collapsed army of Serbia, brought it down to a fire-fighting society. Today, Serbia's army is at an enviable level and a guarantee of peace and our citizens and our country. The former government of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic left us a country with the worst health care in Europe, we were the last, 36 on the ranking list. Today it is the health care of the 15 best countries in Europe. The former government of Dragan Gilas or Europe, Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, left the country economically destroyed by robbery privatisation, led to bankruptcy. Today, the country, Serbia, is economically stable and stable finance. The former government of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic left us a country without hope and faith for its citizens in the future. Today, this faith of our citizens is at a solid level, when it comes to the future. In the end, the former government of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic left us a country with too much responsibility and ultimately left us with no international reputation. Today's duty is at European level, and our country's international reputation is at an enviable level. However, SNS and its president, Aleksandr Vukic, have regained the international reputation of our country, which is why the exchange of experiences of parliamentarians is extremely important for all countries, is particularly important in these difficult pandemic times, because of Kovida-19. Our experience and our country is extremely important for the country in the environment and for the rest of the world as an experience of other countries for us. Our MPs need, among other things, in those international institutions to promote our country, the way it really is, and therefore it is extremely important who are representatives, I agree with the previous member of the people, who are representatives in those international organisations. Experience has it that they were not the best, and here I will give an example, the power of former Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, did not promote our country in the way we really should have done, and that they would promote our country, when their opposition representative muds Serbian people and states, here in the country, that when they find themselves as MPs or members of interparliamentary delegations will promote our country. Their Parliamentarian Petricic says, here's an example to see what he says about our people and citizens of Serbia and about our country, I quote - this people is unenlightened and naive. Serbia is a country where stupid and blind slaves live, finished quote. Is this Mr. Gilasu, Vuke Jeremic and Boris Tadic, your relationship to the Serbian people and to the Serbian homeland, when you call the Serbian people unenlightened, naive and stupid and blind? Is that how you're going to promote our country, if God forbid you come to power tomorrow? Or another example. How did Gilasov, or Gilasov Jeremic represent us in the United Nations? Remember, they transferred the negotiations from the United Nations to the European Union. That's how they introduced us and brought Eulex, and they asked that unnecessary question to the International Court and then stabbed us in the back of their own country. While I'm at this unfortunate Wolf Jeremic, let me say that both Gilas and Vuk Jeremic kept an eye on him while he was in international organisations, in this case in the United Nations, only his own pocket. He also established the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development, instead of fighting for our country's international reputation, he received $200,000 from Mongolia. And today he deals with politics, this Vuk Jeremic member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, because he has not explained to the citizens of Serbia in the name of which service did he receive that money? The same Vuk Jeremic received as much as $7.9m from various suspicious sources between 2013 and 2017. Up to the day of today's Vuk Jeremic did not explain his name, and here he threatens not to go to the polls, but to try to win power on the street, but to cheat on his account. Furthermore, Vuk Jeremic received $4.5m from a phantom energy company, a company operating in Shanghai and Hong Kong. Here he is with Dragan Gilas. Well, Gilas' accounts are in Hong Kong, too. So they've been working together with the international gang of thieves and frauds at the time, where their close associates operated, especially Vuk's friends and associates, were later arrested in the United States for corruption and money laundering by Patricia Ho and Sheif Tidiangadio. These are their business partners, so they destroyed our country's financial and economic system and represented us in international organisations. The unfortunate Vuk Jeremic received $120,000 from Qatar and the embassy in Berlin, $200,000. I now urge him to explain to the citizens of Serbia what he has received so much money from abroad. And not to take any further time, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs while our President Aleksandar Vukic daily fights and returns our country's international reputation by implementing a policy of peace, not only in the region and Europe, but also in the world, stability policy, a policy of accelerated economic development, a policy of health for all our citizens and in the environment, until then Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic only take care of how they will cover their accounts, and Dragan Gilas on 53 accounts and 17 countries robbed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Orlic, like my fellow SNS MPs, I will vote for these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5329	I thank Professor Atlagic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, for the need to make decisions from today's session's agenda as soon as possible. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5330	Thank you, Dr. President. An eagle. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will, like my colleagues, previous speakers and professors. Atlagic and everyone else, talk about the important things of all our committees and delegations, which work in the territory of the whole world, where it is the task of us as MPs and representatives of these bodies, is that, in every place, we promote and work in the interests of the Serbian citizens, in the interests of all of us living in Serbia, and we will do so, and by today, there is a great shift of our country in the world, a shift to the better, a shift to what is very good, where all this began by the then prime minister, and now the President of Serbia, Mr Vukic, together with the government, where we have a strong opposition, both in the east and west, where we are respected by every country in the world, where we show ourselves at all times having strong leaders and people who promote and work for Serbia. It is now seen when the most difficult situation, when the pandemic is seen as how many of our fellow citizens and people living in Serbia are, how vaccinated they are and how the vaccine is provided, how much that means we have great support in the world. As a member of the delegation, I was together with Mr Bečić, very active, it is the Parliamentary delegation of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation, where we have had a series of meetings and talked about problems that are the same or similar, as far as all of our countries are concerned, where we work together. Otherwise, I am also in a delegation in the group of friendship representatives with Slovenia, where I am really trying to change things for the better, because Slovenia, one of the important countries that helps us in the employment of people and job creation, the co-operation of the two governments, the co-operation of our president, is the same co-operation and our Friendship Group with Slovenia, where their members from Group 50, Serbia, were not with us, and where we work together in the interests of our two countries. I think we'll keep working in the next period. All of our people who are now being voted to be members of these delegations and these bodies, and I'm sure they will really advocate and fight for the interest of our country of Serbia, and all because every citizen of our country would be better off, so whether he lives in Svrlig, the White Palanca, whether he lives in Raska, Prepolje, in Subotica, Belgrade, everyone should be well, and now it's important that all of our citizens who are not vaccinated, be vaccinated from this pandemic, from Kovid. Once again, I will invite all my friends, all the people who live in the country and all the citizens of Serbia, to respond to vaccination and to be vaccinated, because it is the only cure and rescue from this pandemic and from Corona. Once again, distinguished fellow MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, I will vote as a People's MP and President of the United Peasants' Party, who was elected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will vote in favour of the motion for candidates for delegations, because they think it is necessary and to continue at this pace to work in the interest of our country of Serbia, to be recognizable, because we are now a leader in the Balkans, but as it goes, we have a chance to be also in the countries that are leaders in Europe. I call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5331	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5332	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, although they are today's agenda points, can be seen as procedural and formal, the content of which is not questionable, and concerns members' changes in permanent parliamentary delegations and assembly committees. This is a great opportunity for today's Parliament of the Republic of Serbia to also talk about the parliamentary dimension of foreign policy, which is both important and through whose work contributes to the key foreign policy objectives of our country, above all, to the preservation of our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and then to the negotiating process with the EU to obtain full membership, but also to preserve and continue and improve good neighbourly relations, as well as to strengthen economic integration with the most developed and important countries of the world. According to our highest legal act, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, competence in the field of foreign policy is divided into, as we know, between the bicep executive, i.e. between the President of the Republic and the Government on the one hand and the legislator, or the National Assembly on the other. The National Assembly plays an increasingly important role in creating and implementing our country's foreign policy, ratifying international agreements, controlling the government's work in the area of foreign policy and achieving international co-operation. With regard to parliamentary diplomacy and coordination of the activities of the Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, whose chairman is in the past and in this assembly is a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. This Committee shall consider acts and other foreign policy issues, as well as issues concerning international relations with other countries, institutions and organisations. If we look at parliamentary diplomacy through history, it has been particularly important since the end of the 19th century, which is a particularly important step in this process, it is the creation of the first international parliamentary organisation, because it is an Interparliamentary Union formed in 1889. Serbia becomes a member of this parliamentary organisation only two years later, which is 1891. In this Interparliamentary Union, there is a dialogue on peace and co-operation among peoples, fostering and promoting the concept of representative democracy, but also considering all those issues that are important for international relations and foreign political relations. As I said, given that parliamentary diplomacy is increasingly gaining importance in international relations, but that the role of parliament in our country's foreign policy is also important, it is important to represent Serbia and Serbia in permanent parliamentary delegations, where we have the opportunity to exchange ideas and attitudes and proposals, but also to experience with the parliaments of all those countries that have parliamentary representatives in such bodies. One of these delegations is also a permanent delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, whose members will be changed here today to this agenda point. What is particularly important is that international co-operation between our country is important and the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association. This Committee has been set up to discuss all relevant issues concerning Europe and Serbia, particularly political and economic issues in the process of European integration of our country. When it comes to multilateral diplomacy, it is particularly important to note the great success of our country in 2019, when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia hosted the 141st Interparliamentary Union session. At that time, Belgrade was the centre of the world when it came to interparliamentary co-operation, as there were as many as 150 delegations and the whole world, given that there was significant data that represented the presence of as many as 80 parliament presidents from countries around the world. What is particularly important is that at this session, 141 Interparliamentary Union meetings were adopted and a Belgrade Declaration confirming the commitment of peace and international law, but that parliaments would adhere to the principles of the UN Charter and the rule of law. However, it would be wrong to say that parliamentary diplomacy refers only to the presence and participation in such events, which are without a doubt an opportunity to achieve bilateral meetings. More than 300 bilateral meetings were realised at the Interparliamentary Union meeting in Belgrade, specifically mentioned earlier. These bilateral meetings and agreements are important because they highlight the importance of parliament as an institution that increasingly becomes an important actor in foreign and international relations. As for parliamentary friendship groups that I consider to be extremely important, they contribute to the achievement of interest and priorities in overall bilateral relations, and the role of Serbian diplomacy that has particularly come to light during the previous years when 18 UN member states withdrew, or changed their stance on Kosovo, and decided to withdraw an earlier recognition. The continuation of this diplomatic activity is also seen in the decision of the President of the National Assembly, Ivica Dacic, to form groups of friendships with these countries that have withdrawn recognition, so-called. the self-proclaimed states of Kosovo and thus show our gratitude and respect for these countries that have given us support in preserving and fulfilling our country's main foreign policy goal, which is to preserve our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. Parliamentary relations have been raised to a higher level when it comes to traditionally close and friendly countries. First of all, I mean China and Russia. It is important to mention the Commission for the Co-operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the State Dume of the Russian Federation, as well as the Memorandum of Understanding between the National Assembly and the Svekine National Congress, as well as the protocol signed at the time on the establishment of the Commission. Such activities are diplomatically opening up a space for improving co-operation between working bodies and parliamentary groups of friendships between our parliament and parliament, these two important states, friendly, China and Russia, with which we cultivate traditional good bilateral relations. What I would conclude in the end is that the results of a responsible and serious policy, we have a special opportunity to see at these times when the global health crisis is at stake and when thanks to the successful diplomatic activities of our country's leadership, but also to strengthen ties with traditionally friendly countries, we have had the opportunity to ensure everything we need to fight successfully and continue to fight the crown of the virus. That is why the Socialist Party Group of Serbia considers it extremely important that we MPs, through participation in permanent parliamentary delegations, contribute to better standing and better reputation both in regional and international flows and relations. We're going to support all these decision-making proposals today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5333	Thank you, Mrs. Radovic. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5334	Thank you, Your Honor. Just a few findings regarding this item of the agenda, which is a traditional point in every assembly of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the role of all delegations and the composition of delegations is important, but in order not to repeat myself with your colleagues, in order not to take too much time here, I would like to point out a few things. What may be most important in this period, given that the work of the delegations themselves is now under some extraordinary circumstances due to the overall circumstances related to the pandemic of the crown, so the activities themselves have been reduced to a minimum, what is possible under these circumstances. It is also clear that there is no travel and everything else, so that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not be concerned. No one in this period spends any money or travels or anything else. Since a lot of such news, unfortunately, came out in certain media, that the purpose of all of this was never to be a purpose, but I did not report to speak for it, but to say that in this period of the coronaryvirus pandemic, Serbia is not in the sense of its role, which is also how important, and above all to these regional initiatives, regional delegations, in all of this, was calm, but I can say that this period has just taken advantage of the best possible way and has given the best possible results in the context of the story not only of calming the situation in the region, which is always tense and always warmed up from different sides, the situation concerning international conflicts and everything else is encouraged, the voice coming from Belgrade, the voice that comes from President Alexander Vukic, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was behind this Parliament was the voice of reconciliation, regional co-operation, regional initiatives, but, most importantly, and help in this situation. I don't want to take too much time, but Serbia is just such a diplomatic activity, such an initiative was a cure to an angry wound that happened to all the peoples in the region. For this very reason, I would also like to point out certain things that were important and how important they were during the past period, even though these diplomatic activities, whether at the level of the government or at the level of parliamentary diplomacy or at the level of diplomatic activities that the President of the Republic himself had, were at the highest level possible compared to the period in which we are. I would point out only a few of those who were very important and would particularly highlight the official visit of the president of the Republic of Serbia and Herzegovina to Sarajevo, when the president of the Republic of Serbia first donated vaccines to Sarajevo. Those were the first vaccines. There were various comments afterwards, but, in any case, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially the citizens of Sarajevo, welcomed it in the right way. On the other hand, as you can see, Serbia continued to help in this period afterwards. What I would particularly refer to during that visit were the very announcements announced by the president of the Republic of Serbia in Sarajevo, launched a particular initiative with members of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and discussed it and announced, practically, something we have not had so far, and what is so important, which is that we have a large summit of economic, economic and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. In addition to having the best possible trade and everything else that is constantly growing and it is in mutual advantage, Serbia may at this point seem to have a little more benefits for all of this, but this is also important for businessmen from all over Bosnia and Herzegovina. A unique and joint performance, a single and joint project that has nothing to do with these joint infrastructure projects alone, but also with all others suggests that this is exactly the future, and what is most important is that such initiatives came from Belgrade. Therefore, it is completely incompatible with everything we have read about different reports, which unfortunately come from Brussels, because the messages not only sent from Belgrade are not declarative, but are initiatives that are concrete, where other nations, other countries in the region are calling for a joint performance. This performance is going in that direction, perhaps the future, and I honestly believe that this is not a distant future and that the time is coming, because this is our diplomacy and our official policy of the Republic of Serbia, which is that the complete region that has remained outside the EU, which is also declaring and really negotiating with not only the EU institutions, is also adapting its legal regulation to their legislation that we all in the region in the future have one vote towards Brussels. These are not models that are new in the current EU member states. I'll always offer what's called a parallel. a multi-city group of four countries that have negotiated together - Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia towards the EU, which are today held as one joint corps in the EU, which are both an important factor in decision-making and everything else. Also, for representatives of all Western Balkan countries based on an initiative that Aleksandar Vukic points out every time, we wait for neighbors and we give them our hand, we support them when it's most difficult, we say we go together, we go with one voice, we go to try to get things that have been burdening us over the past, to leave them in the past, not to forget them, but to turn to new values, that our people, our businessmen, our business initiatives connect, to have a joint and market performance. On the other hand, as one much bigger market, that is, our individual markets to be a respectable factor and to prepare ourselves in the context of the EU negotiations story as a single test phase so that we know that we can play this one higher, more significant match that awaits us in the future. I sincerely believe that in the first decade of government and that it will take us two, three decades to complete all of this, but at the end of that time, I believe that Serbia has not only played the role of leaders in everything, but also the leader in this respect as regards what is most important, to be leaders in these messages that mean that we always appeal to calm the situation, to always appeal to co-operation and, as you can see, and these days when we get through the media and through other information certain messages and initiatives coming from one member, in this case it is about Slovenia, that we should look at the borders in the Western Balkans, no one from Serbia has grasped that kind of story. We respect the territorial integrity of all countries in the region, we will not engage in these kinds of stories, but we should not ignore the fact that such an initiative has come from the highest officials of the Republic of Slovenia. We now see that some documents have also gone semi-officially or unofficially towards it and in a certain way, if we talk about it all, I must point out that Slovenia is not any country, Slovenia is someone who will chair the EU on July 1st. These messages are important that we follow them, but those messages did not come from Belgrade. No one reacted from Belgrade. On the contrary, we received messages from Belgrade that go towards regional not only stability, but co-operation. This call to a large summit in Belgrade and the context concerning the very story "Mini Schengen", the Customs Union tomorrow, are no longer so far away and everyone in the region now realizes that this is the future and that this future will, in my opinion, come very quickly and I believe that Serbia will do what is most important in this respect, and that it will always be someone who will start these initiatives and, on the other hand, send messages of peace, stability and co-operation. On that behalf, lived Serbia and thank you!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5335	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President Orlic. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course I support all these proposals for the composition of delegations of the Assembly committees. I think they're good. It is just a confirmation that we are here taking care of both the importance and importance of all these delegations and all the committees, because we are doing everything that is up to us that the Serbian Parliament, with all its committees and delegations, is one of the most important institutions in our country. At the beginning of my presentation, I must say that ten years ago a great man, our fellow speaker and friend, one of the founders of the Serbian Progressive Party, the great Brana Crncevic, master of written words, fighter for better Serbia and witness of an era. With that in mind, I will single out part of today's statement on Brana Crncevic, president of Serbia and the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandra Vukic, who said: "And I am particularly proud that we were fellows, because I had the honour of listening to him and learning from him, to consult with him. I believe that today he would say to all these indifferences – get out of the way, the future is coming." Dear citizens of Serbia, dear folk MPs, my dear colleagues, the future that we are fighting for, the future for our children, is the future for our Serbia, and the one that leads Alexander Vukic, who has been able to advise with both Bran Crnčević and all the dear people and the prominent and who are no longer with us and who are here with us, because just as our President Aleksandar Vucic loves to listen to advice, suggestions to do something else, something new, something that can make and improve the life of all Serbian citizens. It just says how responsible our president is and we as MPs must primarily be both responsible and loyal to our country and do what we need to do in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Speaking of committees and the work of delegations, as a member of two Assembly committees: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, I know how many these two committees work and how many documents and agreements and laws have passed through our hands, both through our hands and through my dear colleagues who are on other committees. Speaking of defenses and home affairs, I just have to point out how far it's been done in the self-defense sector since 2012. I remind you in 2012, Aleksandar Vukic, then, as the first Serbian government vice-president, became defence minister. In Serbia's defence ministry, Serbia's military and defence sector in general, it was a mess that all of those DOS ministers and all of those DOS chiefs of staff who did everything just didn't work in the interest of Serbian citizens. We had a destroyed army in 2012. It's a terrible situation, as far as the defense sector is concerned. We had a period in 2003, when Boris Tadic was defence minister, when tanks were melting in Smederevo and after reforms and changes launched by then Defence Minister Aleksandar Vukic, we have a serious army today. We have serious results today regarding investment in the defence and security sector. I want to underline that Serbia is not preparing for any war. Serbia is guarding its territory, all citizens regardless of national, religious and political membership. It guards every inch of our dear country of Serbia. All this investment in the military from 2012 to today and as far as the PSC system is concerned, and as for new tanks and various, that I am not now counting, vesting and buying planes and increasing wages to our military members and as regards other equipment that has been purchased, this is just saying that Serbia is a serious state that invests in its defence. Serbia is not investing in the preparation of the war, no. Serbia is investing in peace. Serbia is a guarantee of peace in the Balkans. Serbia led by Aleksandr Vukic is a guarantee of peace in Southeast Europe. That's why Serbia invests in the military. That's why Serbia is investing in the security and defence system. Because we want to have a strong army, a satisfied army with concrete investments and correct wages. Because peace and stability are our first priority, not war. You see, in previous years, Serbia, and especially in the current period, is building bridges. The former enemies of Serbia, during the 1990s and other years, are no longer the enemies of Serbia. Now Serbia provides everyone with a hand of reconciliation, friendship. If someone once was our enemy, he is our partner today because Serbia led by Alexander Vukić is building relations in both the region and Europe. We hold regular military exercises, not to mention the intensity of military exercises in the pre-Krona period and in the current period. Joint military demonstration exercises are being held with both NATO pact members and members of the ODKB and with members of both the US and Russian armies and with members of the European Union's army and with our dear friends from China. Serbia is building bridges both west and east as a guarantee of peace in the Balkans. Serbia is taking a safe path, as regards European integration towards the European Union, but Serbia also maintains friendly relations with both Arab world and China countries, Russia and America and countries that are both members and are not EU members. That's what all these joint and military exercises and all these agreements show. One example, which my dear colleague Adam Shukalo specifically set out, is the vaccination. You have seen Serbia react well and offer both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro and Northern Macedonia and Croatia and every country in the environment and Albania. Everything we can help with the vaccination, like when the situation was last year with respirators, we as the state of Serbia are at our disposal. That is why I keep repeating - because Serbia is the leader of Southeast Europe, a guarantee of peace and stability, but Serbia can only be it if it is led by Alexander Vukic, who leads a peaceful, responsible, friendly policy, assistance policy and citizens of Serbia and our neighbours, a hand-to-hand policy, a policy of creating new friendships and partners, a policy that we have no enemies in the world, just new friends and new partners. It's a policy of peace. It's the policy of the future. It's a policy for the next period, and that's how it's gonna be. Then to be completely unclear to the citizens of Serbia and our friends from around the world, so can anyone be normal in Serbia, to deal with politics, to criticise such a policy, such a policy of peace, stability, strengthening and the economy and health and defence and education systems, the policy of building new roads, investment in infrastructure, construction and traffic? Such a policy can only be attacked by people such as Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, Dragan Solak, Vuk Jeremic and Marinika Tepic. All these attacks by Marina Tepic and these numbered bosses right now, so do you know why they are now current, dear citizens of Serbia? Because they want to distract the public from Gilas's thieving malfeasances and from Gilas' 50s and some accounts in 17 states. They want the media not to talk about it and the public. So now that investigations are under way, when not only the whole of Serbia, not only the whole Balkans, but the whole world knows who they are and what the opponents of Aleksandr Vukic are doing in Serbia, these are those people whose financial interest is first, not the health of Serbian citizens, not the state and national interest, not to help citizens and neighbours, not to provide the hands of reconciliation, but to provide hands in the money bags, to take millions with payment cards, to hide all the malfeasances in the hands of Dragan Gilas and his associates, to hide all the money he stole from Serbian citizens during DOS authorities, i.e. DS authorities. Of course, not only do the citizens of Serbia, but our friends and partners and in the region also see clearly in Europe and around the world, and now they know clearly that Serbia has only one policy, which is the responsible policy of Alexander Vukic, and that other policy, that is the policy of tycoon Dragan Gilas, who, both of whom and his associates, is to kidnap from citizens, not new millions, but new tens and hundreds of millions of euros. Now, my fellow citizens, they know that not only do you live in Serbia, but now the EU and the whole world know it and, of course, that those who want good Serbia will always support Alexander Vukic's policy, because Alexander Vukic always at these times, in addition to everything listed, leads our Serbia to a safe future, in a future that will provide us with new jobs and new investments and as regards the security and defence system mentioned and, of course, health care and social policy, pay and pension increases, investment in infrastructure, investment in good relations with our neighbours, investment in everything that can bring us good, and can only bring us this responsible policy led by our President, Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5337	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will spend a little bit on committees and since I run a Committee on Economic Affairs, Forestry and Water Management for a few sentences or a few minutes on this committee, which, in my opinion and those who are members of that Committee, are working hard at the most important committee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why do I say it's the most important committee? Because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the states of Serbia have defined themselves to join the EU. I said European, I didn't say slavery, I said European. So, as president of the People's Peasants' Party back in 1990, as a programme goal in my party's programme, we included our entry into the European Community. The European Community has grown into the EU. Many countries in the Balkans and the environment have entered the EU, Serbia has so far not for known reasons. The country has been defined for the EU, and the EU budget in 45% of cases goes to agriculture and rural development. That is why we in the Committee on Agriculture believe that in the National Assembly is one of the most important committees, and we also claim the most important, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, which is, by the way, the competent and the food industry. I will just remind you that out of 45% of the EU budget allocated to the common European agricultural policy 365 million per seven years, about 52, 53 million EU is allocated to agriculture, which is around 500 euros per 104 million hectares of farmland, if we take a hectare as a unit by which we will count what EU countries receive. At this point in Serbia, at 3.5m hectares of support, although higher than in 2012, it is only 100 to 120 euros per hectare, which means it is four to five times smaller than the EU farmers enjoy. For example, in 15 years, the Czech Republic received 15 billion 76 million from the EU for agriculture. Fifteen billion and 76 million won for the Czech Republic's 15-year-old agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Croatia has a million 164 thousand acres of farmland. Croatia gets, to be precise, 778mm 441m euros in incentives or 600 euros if we take a hectare as a measuring unit for the share of funds it receives from the EU budget or 600 euros more per hectare than Serbian peasants get. Let's say, if the yellow locusts ate 10 years of politics, if we are late because of the yellow locusts for 10 years, we have thus damaged Serbian agriculture by 12 billion euros. According to hectares, we are similar to Bulgaria, we have something more hectare than Bulgaria. Bulgaria has 3.3m hectares of farmland, with 785m euros in direct payments for agriculture and 359m euros in rural development and environmental protection in agriculture. In total, Bulgaria gets at an annual level of 144m euros, while we receive modest 350m euros from our national funds, which are two and three times higher than by 2012. So, Bulgarian farmers registered with only 70,000 on average receive 11,000 euros from the EU. Our farmers, who have 350,000 in the Register of Agricultural Lands, receive an average of 1,000 euros. So, the Bulgarian farmer, the Bulgarian agricultural holding, on average, gets 10,000 euros more per year than the farmer in Serbia gets. Of these lost 11 billion who ate yellow locusts because they did not get close enough to the EU, which we are 10 years late, Serbian farmers lost 11 billion euros or, to translate it into tractors -- 600,000 Middle Forces tractors lost Serbian farmers within 10 years, as far as I am concerned, we are objectively late because of wild looting, predatory privatisations in the time of 12 years, when it was not taken care to reach the declared goal, that is to enter the EU one day, but only to talk about it and rob the country. Furthermore, let me say that at this point we're using IPARD funds, but not enough. We, and certainly the board members know, are authorised to use 175m euros in IPARD funds over a five-year period, which is the means to prepare us, our agriculture, to enter something more ready, with a agricultural policy, or to be adapted to a common European agricultural policy. From the EU, we should get 175 million grants, but at the requirements. At this point we have approved IPARD requirements only 40%, and we are entering the fifth year of IPARD 2 use. These are EU grants. I'm afraid and we're trying to animate farmers that we're not going to use all the funds, which means if someone wants to give us 175m euros, if we don't use that means the rest of the funds, and I'm afraid it's going to be at least 20%, 30% of that money, that they're going to be held in the EU because they can't give us what we're not looking for through the requirements. Behind IPARD 2, we are currently negotiating with the EU, i.e. the European Commission on IPARD 3, which should give even more generous funds, which are likely to start applying for that measure next year, but I am afraid, since we have not used all the IPARD 2 measures that neither IPARD 3 nor our farmers will use all these funds. It is not clear to me why on national requirements, national measures do not take advantage of all 350 million annual incentives given by the state of Serbia, and what the EU honors us, which is about 40 million on an annual basis, through IPARD measures, we will not withdraw, although these funds are non-refundable, although they are European taxpayers' funds, not taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that Serbia, which is my party's goal, is that I believe we all share this goal, that in agriculture annually, over a billion euros is being introduced into Serbian agriculture annually, which, by the surface and by the number of farmers in the Republic of Serbia, follows us the moment we prepare and enter the EU. A delay every year in EU accession to Serbian agriculture costs 1.1 to 1.2 billion euros, and to translate that -- there is 9% of the Serbian budget in the Serbian budget, and at this point, less than 5% of Serbian agriculture is being allocated to national agriculture. Subsidies are not only the reason why I say this, that subsidies only farmers receive more money, subsidies also affect the food industry, also affect strategic security from possible military and economic pressures and guarantee the food security and competitiveness of our agriculture and food industry in the country. So, if the incentives are bigger, our food industry will have raw materials that will be significantly cheaper, because, with incentives in European values, you get a cheaper agricultural and food product, i.e., the food industry gets cheap raw materials and can be more competitive on our market, the surrounding markets, and the EU market. I am one of those who advocated that our Serbian farmers achieve a billion euros of incentives on an annual basis, because this will strengthen agricultural holdings, and to tell you that European agricultural policy measures do not only cause money in peasant pockets, but also part of the money is allocated to rural development, and this affects demographics. If you raise the food industry, if you raise rural tourism, say in the country, if you use rural development measures, then it guarantees that the existing population is a little more evenly deployed in Serbia, and that gives some demographic measure in the Republic of Serbia, especially in areas that are very demographically threatened, and these are border areas and areas in the area towards our southern province, because most of the settlements below 100 inhabitants, when you put on a geographical map are located along our border areas along and along the administrative lines, which I think will one day disappear. The European Union guarantees something that we Serbs need to recognize. As you know, most of the countries that have joined the EU from the former SFRY, which is Croatia and Slovenia, are the majority that have entered, so it is not for Serbia to enter, and even BiH, as far as I can see, would also be intended for Montenegro to enter without Serbia entering. I think it's a reason to prevent Serbs from living again in one state, complex, but in one community of states and again after Yugoslavia, all Serbia is in a certain way and under one hat. I think that is why certain countries in the Balkans are opposed, those that have entered the EU, and God, and those who think in the EU, are not for Serbia to enter what would affect our farmers, and in a certain way would prevent the unification of the Serb people in the Balkans, through a community of countries called the EU. Generally, the aim of our agricultural policy is also good for Serbia, and good for the Serbian people who live in the Balkans and the EU, to say that much of the Serbian people have already entered the EU, part by piece, so let's unite together with that people who have already entered the EU, and have temporarily and occasionally worked there, let's unite with them, to raise the standard in agriculture, the processing industry and to make our salaries, through these incentives in agriculture, significantly improve and stop the reasons for Serbs to make migration from European Serbia to other European countries. That's why I think none of the MPs mind that Serbia is opposed because of agriculture, because of significant funds that enter the EU as soon as possible, but that none of us thinks that Serbia is going to be as small as Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5339	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word is Wolf Mircetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5340	Thank you. Dear President, the vice-presidential National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Orlic, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are today ahead of us with proposals from a change in the composition of delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Due to the current global situation caused by the coronary virus, our delegations meet all obligations, however, most of these meetings are carried out by the line. We all understand the negative impact of the coronary virus. We talked last week about the census, and how certain EU members, such as Germany and Romania, and postponed the 2022 census, precisely because of the inability to keep the list secure, to realise the list because of the virus's coronation. It is necessary to create a safe environment within which we can implement our activities and all our activities as before. In order to do so, it is necessary to join strategically in solving this problem as did the Republic of Serbia. The struggle in which the Republic of Serbia is fighting hard against the crown of the virus is double. On the one hand, we fight to save lives, and on the other hand we fight to create this one safe environment. When it comes to the struggle to save lives, we must not forget to get a respirator. At the very beginning of this pandemic, when many more developed and richer countries failed to obtain enough respirators, Serbia managed to do so. That's why we did our best to provide respirators when even richer countries couldn't do it. When it comes to the dynamics of vaccination, I think we should be proud to say that Serbia is a leader not only in the region, but in the world. What are the facts and they show that Serbia is moving forward, meeting changes and is ready to meet absolutely all new challenges and therefore Serbia is no longer insignificant on the map of the world or on the map of Europe, but we have friends, both in the east and west. By pawning President Aleksandr Vukic and his way of leading foreign policy, but also good relations with both the East and the West, today we have the possibility as one of the rare countries around the world that our citizens are vaccinated with one of even four different types of vaccines. I am proud to say today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that Serbia is one of the leaders in terms of vaccination, but I have said not only in the region, but in the whole world. If we are talking about the region, it is important to look back at what the minister of the potter said last night and what he said last night, which is a plan for the purchase of vaccines and the number of vaccines obtained that shows that we have clearly decided to oppose this coronary virus and that we are trying to make progress not only in Serbia but in the whole region. What Minister Loncar announced last night, and that is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is 100m euros in new investments in medicine. There will also be new scanners and x-rays and monitors and sanity vehicles, and during this period we have also made new laboratories, but also two hoofs of hospitals that have really helped our fight against the coronary virus. But none of that will be necessary unless we're working on keeping doctors and medical staff. We need to make sure that we continue to invest in the health system so that we don't get into a situation where we have a health system, that we have absolutely everything built, but that there's no one to work. In this regard, wages in the health sector have been raised several times in the previous period. All of our health workers heroes and in the coming period will be working on additional salary increases, but also on additional education, which is very important. Minister Loncar also reminded me of some important things and I'll read it so I don't make a mistake. In March 2010, the nurse had a salary of 30,159 dinars, while in March 2021 the nurse paid 56,874 dinars. In March 2010, a specialist doctor had 62,763 dinars, while in March 2021 he had 111,191 dinars. If we talk about the Kovid system and doctors and nurses, the specialist doctor in the Kovid system has 182,000 salaries, while the nurse has 79,278 dinars. So we see how much has increased in these 11 years, and our healthcare professionals know best how much has increased in the previous year. So, as we have already seen, we are leaders in the region in various segments, but we also understand that it is important that the whole region develops, because when the region is developing and Serbia is progressing. If we're talking about the region, we have to accept that the problem that caused the coronary virus is global and that only as a region can we fight it together and we have to be unique. I believe that the period of the previous year has shown that Serbia is looking unequivocally at the future. We donated, I think everyone knows but it's not bad to repeat, to our neighbours the vaccine when they needed it most, we even opened our borders for neighbours from the region to vaccinate in the Republic of Serbia and show that we are fighting for both Serbia and the region, because it is important for us to save lives and to show that everyone in the region should look into the future. However, I hear certain comments about what Serbia has donated, I will not speak as much as anyone, I will say in general, a number of vaccines to certain countries in the region. He says, "Well, what is it, is it only so much?" Or, what is it, only so much? That's all it means to save so many lives. And if we could help, as some diabolical comments say, just so many lives, I'm glad, because we just saved just as much of our neighbors' lives. We MPs do such a job that we need to be in constant communication with our fellow citizens and I know how much our neighbours from both BiH and Montenegro and Northern Macedonia are proud of us and how grateful they are that we helped them just when they needed it most. And true friendship is measured and looked right at in the works and not just in words. However, there are absolutely always people who are really bothered by everything and who are critics without any cover or any criticism that they would fight for, perhaps for a few more lies on social networks, because their policy is the most based on social networks and here, if we remember the very beginning of the vaccination, the first person to be vaccinated in Serbia was Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. At that time, those who obviously do not want anything good to the Republic of Serbia say that there are either not enough vaccines or there are enough vaccines but only the authorities will be vaccinated. Of course, the facts have shown and shown day and day that the thing is just different. President Aleksandar Vukic was vaccinated during the previous week because his stance was to vaccinate when the people were vaccinated and what is very important is that right then Serbia broke the vaccination record – 75 thousand people, I am talking about a record in Serbia, in the course of one day, 75 thousand citizens of the Republic of Serbia were vaccinated. What's very interesting is that individuals from the opposition have been vaccinated, and that's exactly what bothers them. Of course, they're criticizing everything, they're doing nothing, I don't even have to talk about it. Now, to make sure you don't think it's bad that they've been vaccinated and that all it takes is the power to vaccinate, as they've pointed out, is good that they've been vaccinated, because it says that at least in some way they're responsible and they take care of their lives, even their own. What is completely legitimate and I understand and I believe that they understand absolutely everyone is what they can be the opposition of the SNS and that's absolutely fine, but what no one, absolutely no one, is to be an opposition to Serbia. What bothers us to do even stronger, even more diligently, even more persistently is that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see that Serbia has gone ahead irrevocably and that no one can bring it back. It is up to us to continue to work securely and responsibly and to fight for Serbia's progress in the coming period. Such an environment, an environment that is safe and an environment in which we are progressing attracts new investments and opens new jobs and, of course, implies that the living standards of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are improved. In the voting day, as part of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", I will support the proposals for decisions we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5341	Thank you, Mr. Mircetice. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5342	Thank you, Reverend Vice President Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this is a very important point, and whenever it comes to staff solutions for permanent working bodies, committees and permanent delegations operating within the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is crucial for us in the SNS, for the reason that our country is almost always facing major geopolitical and foreign policy challenges and what is the aim of the SNS is to have better, better quality, more educated people, who can best represent our country's national interests and the interests of our citizens. Whether it is the Assembly committees or permanent delegations at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly or the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly or the Council of Europe or the Black Sea Initiative or the Southeast European countries, each of these initiatives, whether it is regional or implies a global level, is very important and that is what is the essence of the foreign policy that President Aleksandar Vucic defined when he became prime minister in 2014, and this is the daily empowerment of Serbia's foreign policy position, both at regional and global level. Serbia is facing major geopolitical challenges, Serbia is in a day-to-day imprecise fight for its own sovereignty and defence of its territorial integrity, defending its people living in KIM, but also living across the region, especially in neighbouring countries, and in order to protect the best possible way of protecting the interests of our citizens, our people, we need everything that Serbian diplomacy is doing at this time and in the past few years, all that President Vukic has done as president of the state in a better positioning of Serbia at the world level and among the world's greatest players, we are doing it here in parliament. It is true, and everyone can testify, that parliamentary diplomacy, therefore, is the activity of MPs in relation to their colleagues in other parliaments around the world, something where perhaps the best result is made in this parliament's work. I also have to mention the time when the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who strongly supported the strengthening of parliamentary diplomacy and who well recognised the importance of the best people being part of permanent delegations, especially in regional and global initiatives. What is very important is that all these MPs who have worked and who are working within these delegations are something that represents our country, something that represents the face of Serbia, and at this point we can praise that we have significantly rejuvened the composition of these delegations with especially our colleagues, who are very qualified, very educated, speak foreign languages and in the right way can represent the interests of Parliament and the Republic of Serbia, both in the region and in the world and can talk and represent these interests in the best possible way, knowing a lot about geopoliticals, knowing a lot about Serbia's strategy when it comes to economic, political, social and external development and the realisation of our foreign policy strategy established by President Aleksandar Vukic, by taking one, freely, I can say, the Finnish policy, which has been highly criticised and has always had these pressures and we have to make ourselves at the point of being able to define ourselves globally. He did not, of course, listen to these advices and dedicatedly, gradually build relations and lead them to a strategic level, so the level of strategic co-operation with the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation, with key EU countries, with the United States, with the countries of the Middle East, the Far East. What is the result of this policy of Alexander Vukic and his, I feel free to say, the foreign-political doctrine that we are following here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through our activities in the framework of parliamentary diplomacy? It is that today Serbia, unlike between 2000 and 2012, has investments from around the world. A few days ago they were investors, very important investors from Japan. We have a strategic partnership with our friends, a steel partnership from the People's Republic of China, we build a common infrastructure, we improve our economy, we provide opportunities for new jobs, we introduce new technologies, we modernise our country with friends from the Russian Federation, we build our energy system, we modernise and we try to have as many benefits as possible from our energy potentials, whether it's renewable energy sources or not renewable, so we work with them on that plan, but also our partners from the EU. As a result, we have more and more investment in Serbia, that Serbia has fully opened new industries, such as energy, such as tourism, such as investments in the automotive industry. We have maintained and succeeded, thanks to this wise policy by President Vukic, to maintain such systems of energy that belong to the field of geology and mining research, such as the Mining-topic base "Bor", such as Želizara in Smederev. So, with our Chinese partners, we have managed to maintain and use our natural resources in the best possible way, and what is most important -- to keep in life dozens of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that work for these large companies, but to keep in life entire cities, such as Smederevo, such as the entire Srederjevo region, such as Bor, Majdanpek, Negotin and all cities in eastern Serbia, thanks to these huge investments, which will only make their full contribution and full result of our GDP growth, but of course to improve the quality of life of all our citizens. What is very important in this domain is that we send a message that also the MPs in their work, in parliamentary delegations and in the assembly committees are struggling to improve our country's position, are struggling because there are drastic changes in the context of world diplomacy and in the new model of modern world diplomacy, which is no longer and which is more and more leaving that traditional model of diplomacy, but the result of every diplomacy and diplomatic activity represents how much my country has exported to another country, how much trade is there and, of course, how much is someone as a diplomat and who is engaged in diplomatic activity managed to advance the relations that result from this economic and investment plan. I think that President Aleksandar Vucic has done this in a maestro way, given that this strategic partnership with the People's Republic of China gives huge results and nearly six billion euros in current investment in infrastructure and other business projects, that also with the Russian Federation, American companies in Serbia employ more than 25,000 people, that German companies employ about 70,000 people. What's interesting is he managed to restore some old alliances and old partnerships. I'll set an example for France. Serbia has almost 30 years not had any political or economic relations with France. Thanks to President Alexander Vukic's vision and the creation of a strong and strong friendship with President Makron, he positioned our country in France as leader in this part of the Balkans and in this part of Southeast Europe, and we have very good investments today. So, the French company Vansi is a strategic partner of Nikola Tesla Airport. A strategic contract was signed on building a metro in Belgrade that will cost several billion euros and will drastically make life easier for Belgrade, to be more attractive for life and for investment and for all those who want to come to Belgrade and on the tourist plan, but who want to invest in our city, given that Belgrade has become one, as well as the whole of Serbia, a huge site. You don't know anymore, and you can't recognize which company they're building and what position they're in, whether they're companies from Turkey, whether they're companies from Israel, from America, from Germany, France, and that's what the main result and the main benefit of that Vucic doctrine is to cooperate with everyone, that we're open to everyone and that what he introduced in 2014 into Serbia's foreign policy, that we continue to adhere to it. Why do Serbia have so much respect for so much international prices? Because Serbia has achieved what is most important in foreign relations, which is reliability. Serbia is a reliable partner. Serbia and its representatives, of course, headed by Alexander Vukic, are also saying the same positions of the dam in Moscow, and in Paris, and in Brussels, and in New York, both in Washington and Beijing. So we are one country that can be counted on, whose word can be counted on, and therefore we have become an oasis of stability in this part of Europe and this policy has shown that we can deal with any challenge. We live in a difficult time, almost global, large, huge economic crisis where some countries record a decline of up to 10, 15 and 20%, and Serbia has managed to preserve jobs during that time, Serbia manages to preserve the level of investment and attract new investments, just because President Vukic has endured pressures from various sides all these years and has taken care exclusively of Serbia's national interest and how Serbia should look in five, ten and 15 years and how citizens of the Republic of Serbia will live better and better. There, that's Wolfie's policy. He did not bend his head even when great pressures were made to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation, he did not fall under pressure not to cooperate with NR China, because he was always responding to them - people, no problem, you are all welcome and you are all free to invest in Serbia. Here, we're opening up a field here for competition and a good business environment, so compete between yourselves, as it is done here, who's going to invest more, who's going to be better at that game, who's going to take more out. We do not want to see absolutely who is from which country, where it comes from, which religion or nation belongs to, it is important for us to realize our country's interest, that we no longer have speculative capital here, that we no longer have fake businessmen and tycoons who have carried out a robbery privatisation by buying the best, most vital enterprises in our country, leveled them with the ground, made some residential buildings, some did nothing, took credit on the terms of it, escaped from the country or the rest here and nothing. So this is about a serious, well built, carefully built foreign policy that produces results. Many, and witnesses, all of us here in the hall and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have put a great deal of pressure on President Vukic on Kosovo and Metohija and these foreign opposition, our political opponents, almost every few months speak, even laminate on the dates when Vukic will surrender Kosovo, when it will give up Kosovo for eight, nine years, and during that time Vukic successfully defends Kosovo and Metohija, successfully defends the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, we are also successfully defending ourselves in the Security Council of the United Nations, and we were able to see it yesterday, because we are a serious state. Ambassador Poljanski immediately insisted and reacted to the appearance of the symbols of the so-called symbol. Kosovo's false states in the United Nations and of course did not allow it because, of course, in accordance with our policy and non-recognition of that false state and we act and take every opportunity to show what our opinion is, what our position is, and how we will defend our national interests daily and in the right way, defending our flag, defending our constitution, defending our people, not giving up our territory and our people, as the regimes did from 2000 to 2012, where I am responsible to argue that at the time that Vuk Jeremic was foreign minister that half of the countries that recognized so-called. Kosovo, that it did it because we didn't know, that we weren't interested and that we were inactive. How is it possible that this Vucician diplomacy in just a year and a half will succeed in the 18 states of the so-called "recognition" of the so-called "recognition". Kosovo? Because Vukic worked, because he was convinced of the idea, because he knew that only by hard work could we produce results and convince others. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how bloody a job it is that a country that has done something and signed a certain legal act that has an international validity pulls it back? It's a much harder job than that job that the Kosovo Albanians did lobbying for some of the currently 94 states to recognise that so-called. the country, i.e. the so-called Kosovo. Many of these problems, or 99% of the problems, were inherited from the former regime, which as far as we can see, the main job was foreign policy, which continent and to which country would be transferred the money they took here from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Well, they passed it on to destinations that half of us here have never heard, according to Mauritius, in Hong Kong, under other destinations, without the words of the people who led this country, and that should be said openly, for 12 years. I listened to one of our businessmen, I watched him last night on a television set with a national frequency that absolutely did not favor SNS, who spoke openly to the journalist question – what does an offshore company want? He explained it nicely. If you have international business, you have factories, you have drives, you have investments in several countries in the world, then it makes sense to have an offshore. We're not advances, they're not against offshore business, but if you have a firm that works exclusively with state-owned enterprises and institutions here and here you've allegedly earned money and you're throwing them out at 53 bills, 67 million euros, you have eight offshore companies hiding behind the property of that major firm of yours. Well, what did you want to do? It is not necessary to be very smart, nor a great economic expert to conclude that it is precisely a desire for tax evasion and a desire that money that is not legally earned to be exported from this country and that the Republic of Serbia is damaged and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are damaged. All that Vucic and what we've been doing as SNS all these years, it's exactly the opposite and we're just fighting it. Parliament from 2000 to 2012, parliamentary diplomacy, the struggle in international forums and institutions and for Kosovo and Metohija and for bringing investors goes from each and every one of us here to go somewhere or receive a delegation here, following that doctrine that we are not only here to speak and, of course, that which is our basic job to bring and vote for good and quality laws, but wherever we go, wherever we go we have to say how good our country is, how much we have improved the business environment and how important every job in this country is to us. It was not difficult for the wolf to open over 150 factories in just two years. He's going to open them himself. Why? Some of them had 100 employees. Because he knows and because we all know here, thanks to his doctrine, how important it is for 10 jobs in one Vladic's Han, in one Bujanovac, in some municipality in eastern Serbia, that it is 10 families, that these 10 families will stay there either 100 or 200 or 300. He managed to have a factory in the smallest places, and in the smallest municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. This is how foreign policy is conducted, that is how economic policy is conducted, and we here will continue with the best possible personnel, and I am sure that these new people, especially young people who make up most of these parliamentary delegations and parliamentary committees, have full capacity. They have shown this in a few months and knowledge, and desire, and patriotism, and commitment, that their work here in parliament, the presentation of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, is done as defined, although on a high scale, on a high scale, by President Aleksandar Vukic. But that's why we fight to be the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5343	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5344	Thank you, Chairman Orlic. Fellow colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, diplomacy and work, are probably two concepts that marked all social changes and all state affairs in the past few years in Serbia. When these terms, as principles of government action and government work in general in Serbia in 2014, was promoted by the president of the state, present-day President Aleksandar Vukic, and then Prime Minister, few who believed in Serbia that Serbia would be where it is today. The truth of the matter, people believed, but that Serbia would move forward like this, few believed. A team before these concepts, diplomacy, and work were slightly out of place. People were skeptics, because these concepts were only floscules and phrases spoken by irresponsible politicians, thus skepticism towards the announced shifts and changes was greater. But as time went by, the concept of diplomacy and work as a principle of government action began to produce serious results and these results are today and how visible. If Vice President Orlic, perhaps you or I talk about these results, could be taken as subjective, however, Serbia's results and successes today talk about serious world addresses. I followed the latest today, and the portal "Joys" and "The Financial Times", especially when it comes to the so-called "Chyce" and "Fynesel Times". The vaccine of diplomacy. But when it comes to work, the World Economic Forum speaks out to Serbia, and it seems to me that too little importance has been given to the public in Serbia, noting Serbia as one of the examples of how it works in the government and what administration it should be. It, of course, particularly highlights the role of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Why am I saying all this? Today, the topic in this respected home is parliamentary diplomacy. Before I say anything on this subject, I will thank our former colleague, Mr. Zark Micino, who was a member of these distinguished delegations and committees, who took over one important function and became part of the team of mayors of Novi Sad. I will take the opportunity to congratulate you in advance, because I know this distinguished home will support the proposal and congratulate our colleague Sandra Jokovic and our colleague Nemanja Popovic and wish for successful work. Sandra and Necessance in front of you is quite an easy job, of course, conditionally speaking. If you have listened carefully to what I said at the beginning and your role model is what the president of the state is doing in recent years, the job in parliamentary diplomacy will not be difficult for you. It is yours to guard the bright cheek of Serbia, which has been achieved by hard and hard work, to protect the face that has been made by the politics that the president of this country has led today and in recent years and make it even brighter. I would hate to ever get into a situation where that Serbian face is ashamed, as some who are part of the EU were ashamed yesterday. You wonder what I'm talking about? I'll try to explain briefly. On April 7th, a post office left Mostar, an important shipment to the Refugee and Displaced Persons Fund and co-operation with Serbs in the region, a fund established by the government of the AP Vojvodina, with an address written in a Cyrillic letter. The shipment path leads from Mostar via Zagreb, to Novi Sad, and when it arrived in Zagreb to EU countries, it was returned to the sender. Yesterday this topic went round and became one of the central ones in the region, was returned to the sender with an explanation, which is clearly written on the shipment, forbidden to write with Cyrillic, no language in use, no less than that, forbidden to write with Cyrillic. Yesterday, of course, I didn't want to say what this phenomenon is called in society, because I think and deeply believe that the principles on which today's EU rests, which we ourselves are pursuing, are completely different from what happened in this part of the EU. This is primarily a question for people who are leading the EU today, to make sure that this thing becomes a practice in any part of the EU, because this has so far been something that individuals and associations have done as they are called in that part of Europe, and here are the institutions. I deeply believe that Europe will deal with this. I am proud that Serbia today, with its work and diplomacy, is on this very trail and principles supported by the EU, and you distinguished colleagues who become members of these delegations and committees, are only required to continue that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5345	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5346	Dear President, honourable colleagues and MPs, and fellow MPs, taking into account that I spoke as authorized at the very beginning of today's session, taking into account the time held by the MP's group, so I will shorten my speech and want to just look today at the things that are very important to all of us and, above all, to the citizens. Serbian citizens vote in the elections, decide who will sit in this parliament, who will do most in the next period and who will lead our country in a certain period of time, and when we talk about it, I purposely used my first part of the exposure today to hear once again what it is that offers one part of the opposition, but first of all one part of the people who represent nothing other than the former regime. When we speak and when we set things up in this way, clearly and sincerely to the citizens, I am absolutely in favour of everyone bearing and the consequences, but that, in principle, the reward and punishment are responsible for everything he did during the period of power and I am confident that, as in previous elections, the SNS will come out with concrete results, what we did in the previous period, but we will also come out with a clear plan and what makes us all happy is the fact that everything we promise, we will meet the citizens. That is why the brave plan that we have in front of us today is 20-25, with citizens well accepted, for the simple reason that citizens have confidence in SNS policy, but above all in President Aleksandr Vukic's policy and they know that everything that is provided for that plan will be covered, but it will be fulfilled. I just want to use this speech as an invitation for citizens to think, here's the thing about these committees and these delegations. As I said, I will look only at the boards, the 44th Rules of Procedure defined how many committees there are, which they do. So from Articles 44 to 46, everything regarding the committee is clearly defined. If we take into account that there are 19 of them, I don't want to look at each individual, but I just want the citizens to assess on the basis of these eight committees themselves whether they want certain people to represent them and to be on one of those committees. The Committee for Defence and Home Affairs, in the previous period, has seen many times as he claims to be the minister of police Bosko Obradovic and how much he wants to manage the ministry. I'm asking citizens, would you support that decision if a man who, in one of the protests, invited his supporters to use the truck to run over the cops who were just doing their job, would you want him to be a member of this committee, would you give him trust and legitimacy, to be part of this committee, to the man who brought in the stones here, the man who violently tried to enter this assembly, who repeatedly dealt with the cops, would you give him confidence to be a member of this committee? Or maybe Dragan Gilas, who during the same protests they organized, threatened a policeman with a sentence – and what are you going to do, when all this is over, where you're going to work and you're going to be out of a job. Let me remind you, as soon as he settled in the chair, when he was stopped for a traffic violation, he was most horrified by a traffic cop and told him he was going to be out of a job. Do you want such people to be in positions of responsibility and to be members of this committee? As for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I don't know who has the courage from that part of the opposition, led by Dragan Gilas, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, to delegate himself to this place? Our foreign policy in their time recorded only defeat after defeat, when our country was humiliated wherever it came from, for their own personal interests, and today when the opposition is, they do it the other way. By giving some of their political assessments, and most often, looking to harm Serbia's government and President Aleksandar Vukic's policies. Let me remind you, all of you of the order of Parliamentarians of Dragan Gilas, led by him, with a mockery they spoke of China, Chinese investments and mocked President Si Ji Ping and the relationship he has toward our country. Not to mention the vaccination and not to say all the statements on the subject of the "Sinopharm" vaccine and everything that was going on at that time. You'll agree that no one wants such people to run our foreign policy. As for the Committee on Justice and State Administration and the Local Self-Government, I think yesterday's session and everything my colleagues talked about, it's clear that people who, in one day, were thrown out on the street, I'm going to use that term on purpose, more than 1,000 people, and then fill it with their party colleagues and suitable for DS policy, no one wants to leave the judiciary in their hands. As you know, the cadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you. Now tell me one thing, remember what it was like at the time of the DS? I am convinced that no one wants to come back and I am convinced that no one wants Dragan Gilas to tell them again who the eligible judge is, and who isn't, and that it is only now, whether he has a membership card of the Freedom and Justice Party, not as at the time when they were the other party, DS. As for the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, I am sorry that one woman, employed by Dragan Gilas at the company, Marinika Tepic has made very serious accusations in the last few days against women who are employed in one city, in our country, and I see that this is not the only address. Besides that town, she listed some other cities where allegedly women who are employed are obliged to hang out after work or whatever, with certain officials. It's a shame for me to quote this, but unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia have heard this and they need to know. I'm just wondering if she's ever wondered at some point what the consequences of her unserious, unfounded, without any evidence, a statement can leave on these women, on their families, on their spouses, on their parents and on their children. If she's so bold, why doesn't she start some trial, and I'm convinced that women who are dressed this way will be embarrassed, that they will seek their justice and truth in court. It is sad that one woman has treated other women in this way. It's embarrassing. It only shows you how much hate is in their ranks, which is what everything is used for. The Financial Committee, the Republic budget, the control of public spending. Dear citizens of Serbia, just ask yourself if you would allow Dragan Gilas, who, in more than 17 accounts, has over 68m euros in various countries' accounts. The man who ruined Belgrade and Serbia, which from the failed window launderers, entrepreneurs and gum seller, with 75,000 euros in savings came to 25m euros in real estate only. Would you allow him, like he used to do in 2012, to make a fortune for you and to go back to the situation so that everything would go to waste, and only that he would grow his wealth and his millions in accounts? The Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, a previous speaker, colleague Paunovic, has presented a series of data concerning KIM and the work of this committee, I will just add that it is really okay that in the Committee on KIM is in the interest of our citizens, in our southern province those who have all done to give legitimacy to temporary institutions in Pristina. Borko Stefanovic, Vuk Jeremic, who asked the nakarad question that we discussed here today, those who have moved the negotiations from the UN to the EU, those who have built borders between Serbs, those who today are representatives of the authorities in Pristina, the temporary authorities call their gods and godfathers of independence, do they need to decide again on the fate of KIM and our citizens? The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction. The highlight of hypocrisy would be if Dragan Gilas talked about this subject, spoke and was a member of this committee, because because of him and their disastrous policies of the Democratic Party, half a million people were out of work. Half a million people stayed on the street fighting for a piece of bread. It's the only way that they've destitute half a million people directly, so now they're in expensive suits and shoes, with giant fairies and bills that can't even count where they are anymore, to deal with this issue. I am convinced, respected citizens, that in the next election you will not allow them to do so, because in this way you will deny the support of those people who symbolise only defeats, failures and the edge of our country's bankruptcy. This is what I'm gonna end up with. The Security Control Committee, can anyone imagine that Bosko Obradović, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas or Marinika Tepic will be on these committees and what they will do when we know for ourselves that their only interest is in personal, personal wealth, personal promotion and gaining as much of their own power as possible. I don't know, but I am convinced, respected citizens of Serbia, that you will not allow this and that everyone in Serbia is aware that if these irresponsible people were given the opportunity to lead our country again, to bring us back to the dark times, without perspective, without economic stability and with the desire that we will and in what way we will welcome tomorrow. Dear colleagues who will be elected today, I want a lot of success. I would like to tell the citizens - define yourself in the next election that you will vote for only with your life and desire to give your children what is best, and that is the only way to guarantee the responsible policy of SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic as the results so far show. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5347	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5348	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, as we are witnesses ourselves, see that the work of the MP is very important, both here in the plenary room and within the Assembly committees which also existed as a delegation that has one important task, which is that they work on an international agenda, to promote the results that the Republic of Serbia has achieved, to show what it is that the Republic of Serbia has done to deal with and the challenges we face today when it comes to the pandemic of the crown, but also, to show efforts, wishes and all that we make when it comes to one of our strategic objectives, which is the EU accession process. Otherwise, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves have had the opportunity to see from 2012 how far it has been done when it comes to improving life within the country itself, but also on the road to EU accession, because the wish of the SNS and the policy led by our President Aleksandar Vukic is to ensure quality and good living conditions for all Serbian citizens. As we can see, when we talk about fighting the crown, we really have great results that we've achieved. We can boast that we have really made every effort to ensure and maintain the health of our citizens. In the first encounter, we proved that we can unite when it comes to fighting for our fellow citizens, so that during that period, we built two hoofs of hospitals in just four months. There's going to be a third Kovid hospital in the New Sad. Thanks to the efforts made by our president, Aleksandar Vukic, a really large amount of repeaters and medications has been obtained, but also what is very important now, we have enough amounts of vaccines, of four different producers, which makes us unique in this part of the world. So the immunization process itself is successfully implemented. It's a particularly good thing that even this opposition we're talking about can't hide that this process is really going well. Even though at the beginning of that process, they were really trying really hard to spread panic, spread lies, that they were promising some towers and cities, and from their efforts and vaccines that they had promised we had seen nothing. In the end, now they're trying to say, well, they're telling the citizens to come out and get vaccinated, like they organized it, and it's as if they're the ones who invested all that energy in order for this process to be successfully implemented. I'm not saying the message they're sending is wrong. It is absolutely necessary for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to come out and vaccinate, because one way we can cope with this pandemic is absolutely through the vaccination process. It certainly does not need to be politicized and used and abused to get political points, because as we can see, based on the numerous research done, that no effects or results have actually been achieved in this regard. Besides successfully fighting the crown, we haven't neglected other areas of our lives, so we're still champions when it comes to attracting foreign direct investment. A few days ago, we had the opportunity to see an investment in Novi Sad, which refers to the Midek factory, which will deal with the production of electric engines, which is another proof that as a country, we are really attractive to the direct foreign investment. It's a Japanese investment that came to Serbia. What is very important to say is that we have managed to create such an environment and a business environment that we are now attracting investments that are not only designed to deal with concrete production, but also with development and research, that is to say, finally and knowledge of our people, and we know that our students studying at universities in Serbia are one of the best, most qualified in the world and thus ensure that these young people stay in Serbia to work. We've also had opportunities to see from the research that we've been done that we're from a country where academics, or people who have completed their studies abroad, return and decide to form their families here, to continue their lives. What is also encouraging is that by the end of April, President Aleksandar Vukic will open another important factory in Serbia. And what's also important, unlike the policy that the yellow tycoons ran, is that all investments should be in a circle of two. The Serbian Progressive Party's policy is even regional development. As it is said, the accent will be placed on those areas where the problems with the unemployment of the population existed and will work to bring investment and continue to raise the economic environment in those parts. It's all an important segment of the "Serbia 2025" plan. That's the plan. It's politics. Something that is specifically offered to the citizens. Something that has results behind it. As we can see, average earnings are growing, average pensions are growing. As we can see, the work of state services is being improved, we no longer need to wait for certain paperwork thanks to the process of digitisation being carried out in the Republic of Serbia, but through eGovernment all these things end. It will continue to be promoted, and we will talk about it anyway in this tide, and about other segments, and our economies, and our lives, and what is very important, that all the agenda that has been put in place when it comes to the Serbian Progressive Party is realized. It is a real pride for me whenever I travel and come to Belgrade that the works on the Moravia Corridor are progressing, that they are visible, to see machines, to see people who have been hired to work, to slowly implement it, and that in the coming year, when we are talking about connecting Kruševac with the highway, and to experience what the predecessors have promised, which they only knew to philosophy, to talk about, and now to say that it is much more efficient to build four lanes than the highway, while forgetting that this highway will bring new industrial zones, that this highway will bring new investors and that it is not about any, but the most modern highway, which will have a 5G network in it will provide internet connection and up-to-date information about how to traffic flows, as well as opportunities to communicate people. What is important is the Serb Progressive Party's fight against corruption and crime. We could see that in the works, and we can see every day in the media that members of the Ministry of the Interior and our security services are working to actually fight crime. As my colleague Alexander was saying, we have one of the important laws that has been passed here, it's the Law on the Origin of Assets that will, in fact, allow to examine all these assets that are probably illegally acquired. Of course, this opposition is smart to criticise, to say that, in addition to that, there are no effects, that they have much better laws that they want to adopt, but that they really wanted to fight both crime and corruption, and that such a legal solution would be passed, and not only would they, but also in the previous assembly, when they were in this plenary, when they were opposition, when they had the opportunity to hear their voice, because they got as much support as the Serbian citizens and eventually gambled, which is why they didn't even show up in the elections, and that they did occur, the question is whether and 3% could collect, how much censorship, they didn't advocate that such a single law passed, they didn't advocate that the Codex, which we adopted here when the work of the National Assembly, passed, had already only advocated the obstruction. In fact, their policy is to be counter-government, because everything the government does in them is bad, we know better, let's just construct, let's obstruct. There's nothing different about being an out-of-parliamental opposition right now. What's interesting, when this fight started, when it started to happen, when we started getting information about these secret accounts that Dragan Gilas has on exotic destinations, we see how their attacks started, how the constructions of different affairs started, how they sent their people across Serbia so that the fog-industry, which Dragan Gilas is best known to organize, to carry out, and to try once again to deceive Serbian citizens, to say how, that is, they are honest, that is, they are the ones who fight for the interests of these citizens. If so, it is likely that in 2012, they would not become opposition, and today they would not be an extra-parliamentary opposition. What they can't figure out is that they're actually the past, the political past of this country, because you can't fool Serbian citizens another time. You've managed 12 years to destroy this country, 12 years to kill people in terms, you won't. So, we can see, colleagues talked about it, that, well, Borko Stefanovic, Marinika Tepic, they're all going through Serbia and what's interesting is that Marinika continues to cluck and invent these various affairs, and who are the targeted people? Well, all those who are determined to fight crime and corruption are targeted, starting with the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, through ministers, via Mr Gasic, who has indeed had excellent results since he led the Security Service. Now, Minister Selakovic has come to order, Minister Irena, who is really ambitious in the fight for environmental protection and together with the entire government, now that we have the conditions to fight to protect our environment, to turn our economy towards developing and being climate-based neutrally based, of course they are smart enough to say how they are fighting for clean air. Where were you until 2012 to deal with these problems? Where were you until 2012, when Dragan Gilas designed the politics of the city of Belgrade, to ask why the level of pollution in Belgrade is the way it is, if you claim it is? Well, nowhere, probably. It is clear to all of us who has an extended hand, who works according to whose instructions and whose instructions and scripts he writes such texts and continues to place them. Of course, what's also interesting, which I want to mention, their policy today is not based on them talking to citizens, that they actually want to go really from man to man to present their plan. My dear colleague, Alexander, has brought forth here the great plan of theirs. I'll tell you in one sentence as it is - the same as the one that was before 2012, which is the robbery of citizens, except by 2012, Gilas' plan was to rob Belgrade, and now we're extending it to - rob Serbia, or continue robbing Serbia. Of course, such a plan will not go away, so they turned to Twitter politics where, of course, some of them ask a little more, some of them less, and it is interesting that the most active was Vuk Jeremic who began to deal with statistical analyses, so he puts some sort of polling on whether a rematch should be made against members of the Serbian Progressive Party when they came to power. Do you know what else is interesting? Okay, he asked a question, there are four answers he gave as potential, the survey is over. Of course, the answer he wanted, which is to implement rematchism, he didn't win, but then finally he says, well, it doesn't matter to me that, well, people supported that other option, I'm for rematchism, I'm going to do it. Then, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is clear to you what their policy is and what is, in fact, the goal of their coming to power. It's just rematchism, it's hate, and it's revenge on people who want to improve this country and make it possible for citizens of Serbia to have a much better and better life. Just for the end of it, you remember those stories of theirs when they couldn't agree on a potential candidate for the presidential election or who would lead the opposition, so they had some idea of some kind of election within their opposition ranks. The idea did not give up, but rather, it successfully, according to their words, is carried out seven days ago through an online survey, there again online, where they have some 77 candidates who have put in place, and of these 77, these few we mentioned, some of them are not allowed to be on the list, because they will probably be disappointed at how little support they will get from their members, and those who are willing to be leaders tomorrow, are not leaders on that poll and, more importantly, by the number of votes they have, they will not be able to collect even those minimum 10,000, how much they need to verify the signatures that they may be registering some party or that they can run in the elections, because it is clear to us that parties such as the SSP and as the People's Party are not even registered, they are just bought part of the money that they just bought by the citizens, who were not getting their money from the other citizens, because of the F. In any case, as we can see, they are constantly talking about some day after, in fact, the whole story will only come to light on science fiction, because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia believe only what they see, what they feel, and it is clear to all of us, and statistics tell us that, compared to 2012, life and the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is significantly improved, and by realising the plan "Serbia 2025", indeed, by 2025, the average earnings will be 900 euros, pensions 440 euros. We will have modern roads, we will have modern railways, we will have new industries, new jobs that are open, improved system and education and health care, and indeed Serbia will be a place for a better life for citizens. In addition, Serbia has also set the goal of allowing stability and peace in the Balkans and, as we can see, in this era of vaccination opened the door for citizens from the region to help the process of immunisation because this struggle is something that is common. It's not just ours, we're all in this, and that's the philosophy we represent. I want a lot of success with my colleagues who will be in these working bodies, because they are really quality people, who in the right and right way will represent the politics of the Republic of Serbia and represent our results that we have achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5349	I thank Mr. Tomic, too. I'm setting a regular 60-minute break. We'll continue at 15 hours and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5350	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word is made by MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5351	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Dimitri Poljanski, a representative of Russia at the UN Security Council, and regarding his reaction to yesterday's presentation of so-called. Kosovo at a UN meeting. Mr. Poljanski confirmed this at the time of the Russian Federation's position not to acknowledge so-called "the Russian Federation". Kosovo, respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and reminding that there are eight members in the Security Council who are not and will not recognise the independence of our southern province. We heard that opportunity and a representative of the so-called A Kosovo that talked about everything and everything. Among other things, she talked about the state of human rights and convinced us that, as far as this segment in Kosovo is concerned, human rights were never better, all at the moment as we witness every day continuous attacks on members of our people and as KPS violently enters the Health House in Strpec looking for vaccines. Serbia wants dialogue and wants a deal with the provisional authorities in Pristina, but, ladies and gentlemen, you must respect what you have agreed and what you have signed. First of all, you need to respect the Brussels Agreement and the Washington Agreement and you need to form a community of Serb municipalities at KIM. All that Serbia is doing in the previous period is an absolute attempt to save what can and absolutely is contrary to what those whose time Kosovo's independence has been declared, which is that SNS and Aleksandar Vucic were brought to power for one reason only, which is to recognise Kosovo's independence. That's what we've been hearing for nine years. The state, when Kosovo's independence was declared, did absolutely nothing to protect the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. At the time, the prime minister and president argued who would be more courteous to foreigners. Tadic more attached and remained in power because, behold, he cared about Kosovo, Kostunica was a little less concerned about Kosovo, but in principle nothing was done. Kosovo has declared independence and today the same ones who were in the power of the salt mind and hold moral sermons of what and how we should do, and have slept over the two-thousands. They slept through the two-thousands and were so politically ignorant that they either didn't want to know or they were acting crazy to see how the situation was going on and where the solution to the Kosovo issue is headed. They had, however, two brilliant ideas then. The first idea is Vuk Jeremic to withdraw the then ambassadors of our country and all those countries that have recognised Kosovo. Many of them were distressed at that time, for they were unable to sleep at night. Another idea was even more brilliant, and it was about asking the International Court of Justice a question – whether unilaterally declared independence in accordance with international law. For two years, we were assured that the answer would be good and favourable for Serbia. Of course, they lied to us. They lied to us that way, too, because the court has come to the conclusion that the declaration of independence is not contrary to international law. They lied to us about the economic crisis they told us was Serbia's chance, so they left half a million people out of work. They also lied to us about 1,000-euro actions we've never received. For all of this we have been lied to, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and have done much more for Kosovo's independence than many Albanian lobbys that were working on Kosovo's independence around the world at the time. And then they wonder why in 2012 and after that they went the way they did in the elections. They remember the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and for this reason they have sent them into the political past, and therefore their parties are now at the level of a statistical error, without any possibility of skipping that magical censorship of 3%. Assembly committees have a weight and help in the work of parliament, ministries and other state institutions and their competences and roles are defined by Article 44. Rules of Procedure. Members of these congregation committees must be honorable and accountable and must be dedicated to truth and justice. Through individual assembly committees, it is also working to connect and strengthen co-operation with both the region and, above all, with our neighbours. This is all that Serbia has been insisting on since the arrival of SNS and Aleksandr Vukic to power. Namely, it's better co-operation with all our neighbours, building a common future with leaving the issues that burden us from the past on the side, because there's certainly more that connects us than what separates us. We were there for our neighbours, and during the earthquakes in Albania and Croatia, we were there during the floods, and here we are now and when it comes to vaccination, i.e. immunisation, both ours and ours, and the peoples across Europe. What drew my attention yesterday is a text published in the American Financial Times, which I can absolutely agree with, but it's something we're not used to. We are used to these foreign media, the BBC and CNN, that Serbs are always on call, that they are always marked as a remethyling factor in this part of Europe, that they are depicted as carnivores, as carnivores, and now you get one text from that American list that says that Serbia is changing its reputation and showing some new face. This, above all, thanks to Alexander Vukic and his policy, co-operation with everyone because we have succeeded, unlike many and stronger European countries and our neighbours, to provide vaccines, both for our citizens and for people, or for the people of some neighbouring countries. It goes so far in the text that they compare this time, imagine, with time, gold times, unclassified when Belgrade was the centre of this part of Europe and the centre of the Balkans. I really must, Mr. Chairman, take a little detour from the subject, and I think it's really important what I'm really going to mention, and first of all, I have to address my fellow citizens, my Pryboys and my neighbors from Prepolje and New Varosha. In fact, unless someone sent out, a few days ago, representatives of our three local self-governments signed a valuable contract at the Ministry of Ecology, i.e. with Minister Iren Vujovic on the project to allocate 70 million dinars for the implementation of the Lim River Protection Project, i.e. the setting up of floating dams and river bulkheads to be used to collect packaging waste. What does it matter? It is important because at the beginning of the year we really had an ecological bomb on the Potpećko lake and in this way we will show concern for the Lim-Drin flow which is the problem of the three countries, so Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is how we show our desire to cooperate with our neighbors. Also, on this occasion, I would really like to thank and congratulate Minister Vujovic and it is time for us to talk about environmental problems in Priboj after the opening of the free zone, the opening of jobs, the reconstruction of schools, the homes of health, the reconstruction of sports facilities. What is very important is that Serbia will continue to develop in the future, continue to advance and build new highways, new railways, new schools, new hospitals, which will strengthen its defence industry, its military but not to wage war. That time is behind us, but to have certain security and to make our country's citizens safer. When we talk about wars, about defeats, about the past, when we talk, in some of the previous speeches I talked about the remnant of young people in this country, about the incentive of Natalie, I always remember one dilemma that King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic has in the work of "Alexander of Yugoslavia", where he wonders - were the defeats that the Obrenovics lost wars, and the power of Serbia, or was the victory that he won all possible wars and what the whole of Europe and the whole world was talking about? Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that defeats are what remains far behind us and that in the future, only bigger and bigger victories await us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5352	Thank you. The next is MP Gjorge Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5353	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, today we are facing changes in decisions on the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly in international parliamentary institutions. The position of the National Assembly, the establishment, monitoring of foreign policy and its impact on foreign policy is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the special law on foreign policy. As we know, foreign policy is run and determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the National Assembly by Article 99. The constitution has the authority to confirm international contracts, adopt a defence strategy, decide on border change, oversee the work of security services and to conduct dialogue with other parliaments through the work of our parliamentarians in international institutions, or with parliamentarians who meet in these bilateral, multilateral contacts at international level. Our MPs, through permanent delegations of the National Assembly, are important pillars of our country's foreign policy, because, as legitimately elected representatives of citizens, they carry full legitimacy and in collaboration with other parliamentarians from Europe and the world, of course, they represent the citizens of Serbia and thus help lead foreign policy to our overall diplomacy. What is important is to point out that today, when we talk about foreign policy, Serbia is a respected country throughout the world, across Europe. Our voice can be heard. About how today we have the opportunity to defend our national interests unlike nine years ago, when, as we know, we have neither had foreign policy nor where we have managed to preserve vital national interests. To remind ourselves what it looked like, it's enough to remember in 2008 when it was so-called. Kosovo declared independence, and we reacted with two and a half statements. President Tadic, then president of Serbia, was in Romania for an unofficial visit. I say once again, we didn't have diplomacy, we couldn't answer, we didn't have any effect on what's happening to our country and our national interests at all. Of course we haven't helped as a weak country to our countrymen across the region. We remember that in 2011 they set a border between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak. We remember that Vuk Jeremic, on that idiotic issue in 2010, had practically legitimateized Kosovo's independence before the International Court of Justice, so he moved the UN negotiations where we had the support of our friends from Russia and China, right in the EU countries where unfortunately our position is not as stable as the UN. Of course, we all remember with regret what our foreign policy looked like then, how they destroyed all our national interests, that we don't remember how they destroyed the army, which is also, if we look at it in a broader context, an important pillar of diplomacy. When you have a strong army, of course it's a deterring factor from any pressure on the outside-political plan. They led the army to the level of hunting society. We had absolutely no national resources in that period to defend our interests that were at risk for both KIM and elsewhere in the region. We today have a position of Serbia that is incomparably better. Serbia is a respected member of the international community. Serbia today can protect national rights and freedoms and here national minorities in Serbia, as well as demand that the national rights of the Serbian people in the region be respected. We have managed that when we talk about foreign-political successes, the most important thing is that we have led our foreign policy, our foreign diplomacy does everything to have 18 states withdraw the independence of KIM, or independence they have recognised during the time Boris Tadic was in power, while Vuk Jeremic led our diplomacy unsuccessfully, when as many as 100 states recognised Kosovo's independence. To date, 18 states have withdrawn KIM's unilaterally declared independence and we have managed to prevent Kosovo from entering Interpol and UNESCO. We've been fighting for our people in the whole region, and that's what politics has been since we came to power. We say we did not legitimize Kosovo's independence. We have achieved the incredible success that President Vukic in Washington has achieved when there has been pressure on all sides to recognise Kosovo's independence. The Washington agreement provided for Serbia to remain firm in its positions, not to recognise Kosovo's independence. We saw Nikola Selakovic attend a single digital panel in an online session the way we fight for national interests. You do not allow anyone to humiliate you with a way to highlight the flags of Kosovo's false states. In co-operation with the Russian Foreign Minister, the session was terminated. Regardless of all the difficulties Serbia faces today, we insist on looking for peaceful solutions we are still trying to be, not only try, but certainly are, a factor of peace and stability on the entire Balkan Peninsula, and when we look at everyone else around us, we will see that today, in fact, only in Belgrade are tolerated tones heard. There are no calls for any national conflicts, any hatred, any intolerance. Only in Belgrade is the call for dialogue encouraged. We saw it at the end of the day, and now that it's about the vaccines. That, in my opinion, may be the most significant Serbian victory when it comes to diplomacy lately. While the whole world has been cobbled with vaccines, we've got a million and a half vaccines here. We are the first in the region, the second in Europe, and soon it is expected that Serbia with this high rate of vaccines is just coming out of this crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus, but what I particularly wanted to stress is the fact that we have not only had enough vaccines for our citizens, we have had enough vaccines to help our neighbours in the region, regardless of the various dissonant tones that come from that side to Serbia. We delivered a huge number of vaccines to both Northern Macedonia and Montenegro, BiH. We helped everyone absolutely. Even to Albanians in KIM, we offered vaccines and a contingent of vaccines from Serbia left, or from Belgrade went to Pristina. Thus, today we show how a civilized policy is conducted. Today, Serbia, let's say, is a respected member of the international community and of course we want all of our parliamentarians elected to the permanent delegations of the National Assembly in international organisations, which we have here today on the agenda, to defend our country's position in these organisations and to continue to endure everything that is our country's policy. I wish once again for happiness to all who will be elected, and in the day of the vote, I am sure that our parliamentary group and all MPs will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5354	Thank you. The next MP is Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5355	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, the National Assembly is the most legislative body of a state, but of course it could not function unless it had parliamentary committees in its composition. Assembly committees are the working bodies of the National Assembly in which decisions are being made, consider decisions, and then refer to the prey of the National Assembly in which they are discussed in detail, which are primarily in the interest of all Serbian citizens. I would also like to remind you that on these congregation committees, they were the ones who did so in the previous session. Serbia's constructive opposition, the constructive opposition to Serbia, which during the previous term attacked all those who opposed the policy and opposed Serbia's prosperity. We have all witnessed various physical and verbal attacks both on our colleagues Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, Mr. Risticevic and others, who at no time wanted to deviate from that policy that we are following, which is the politics of Aleksandra Vukic and the politics of Serbia's progress. These were primarily those who used the seat of the MP for self - promotion, and then called upon the Constitution, the law, and other international conventions, and went wherever they could beg to return to power. They did it. They begged to return to power because they had no programme, had nothing to offer Serbian citizens. Also, I want to say, aware that they can't even win that 3% threshold, they called for a boycott of elections, on which the list "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children" won over two million votes on 21 June 2020. That night, when they saw that Aleksandar Vucic had the absolute support of all Serbian citizens, they tried in different ways, through their printed media and emissions to dissuade the political process, to dissuade the elections, to realize that then, and not today, if elections were held, they could not get 10% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And you know why? People don't want them. People won't. The people saw all the things they did in the previous term. They saw all those things they did in the judiciary, in health care, in education, in education. They don't want to see those people in power anymore. They want to see in power only those people who are fighting for the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for their families and for better conditions in all segments of society. If we watch Serbia in 2012 through the prism of the pandemic of the coronary virus, in 2012, Serbia was a patient fighting for oxygen. That's what I'm saying because the financing of the Republic of Serbia was completely destroyed. We only had so much money to pay off one month's salary and one month's pension. By 2012, the most criminal privatisation of public enterprises was carried out. That's what Verica Baraq was talking about in her report. After these privatisations, after these reforms, 500,000 of our fellow citizens remained on the street. These people have been thinking about how to feed their children every day. They didn't think about anything else. And then DS officials fought to take as much money as possible and bring as much money to the DS and to their bank accounts. That they were not interested in the interest of the citizens at the time, but exclusively their own political interest shows the example of Miroslav Aleksic, today a small opposition party official who doesn't even have 1% of the support, who rented his own party or gave it to Vuk Jeremic. And Vuk Jeremic is a man who today is betrayed as a great opposition and who constantly insults those who do not think like him on Twitter and other social networks. He calls for some programme "Day After", he calls for lustration. And I don't think Mr. Wolf Jeremic knows what lustration means. Also, Miroslav Aleksic, in a daily list, and I remind you that it is the former president of the municipality of Trstenik, declares, and this is probably directed to all of us who follow the policy of Aleksandr Vukic: "They probably plan to leave one day when they leave the country sold out, the rivers put in a pipe and a section of the forest, and leave us to suffer here. Serbia is not theirs anymore than it is all of us." That's what Mr. Alexic said. But, behold, we all who represent the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are here in parliament. That's what citizens can see. We are here daily in parliament and we are passing legal acts to improve life in Serbia. We make laws in the area of construction because we build eight highways. We pass health laws because today we are the first in Europe and the region in the immunisation process and by the number of vaccines. We don't want to go anywhere, Mr. Alexich. We are not afraid of our people. We're with our people every day. We talk to our people every day. We want to hear what are the problems that this people are causing and those problems we want to solve. But it is obvious that your political bosses, Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Gilas, are planning to leave. And I'm not saying that by accident. You know, when someone plans to go on a trip, he prepares certain amounts of money to stay there as long as he can, and that's what Dragan Gilas does. The money that does not belong to him, the money that belongs to all of us here and to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who belonged to public enterprises, was found in his accounts – 52 accounts in 17 countries. It is obvious that Dragan Gilas, when Serbia becomes more uninteresting to him and when Serbian citizens become a burden to him, he will leave Serbia, go to these banks, take his money and then enjoy laughing at all of us because we believed in his politics. He was trusted by young people. His pensioners trusted him. He was trusted by the workers. Mr. Alexic, you obviously trust him today. But it's no secret that both Jeremic and Gilas have lied a few times and tried to trick you like a ship on a rock. And then, after those media shows, you're trying to seek justice protection. But I want to tell you, the judiciary today isn't what it was in 2012. Today's alibi for the works or misdemeanor is not the opposition party's membership card or the positioning party's membership card. Today, citizens expect everyone to be responsible for their actions and their misdemeanors. I know what's been holding you back for the last two months. It's the law on the origin of the property that bothers you. A law that has waited 20 years for all Serbia, so neither the Democratic Party nor the DSS nor their satellites brought it to the Serbian Progressive Party. In 2007 or 2008, I will not be resented by the citizens of Serbia, and your Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said there is no political consensus at this time to pass a law on the origin of property. Well, a few years later, Aleksandar Vukic, then the first Deputy Prime Minister in charge of fighting organised crime and corruption, creates a political will to pass the Property Origin Act. Knowing that because of the Law on the Origin of Assets, you will have to answer for all those things you've done for the past 12 years, you now want to influence officials in institutions such as filing criminal charges against the Director of the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering. You'd also like to influence all of us here if we didn't talk about all those things you did. But, Mr. Gilas, you're not gonna make it. You will not succeed because we stand constantly in the way of SNS and Alexander Vukic, which is a better life for all of us and our children. I also want to tell you, how come since the adoption of the Law on the Origin of Assets, none of you have gone into the media like the President did and said he wants to be the first on the list whose property will be under the influence of the tax administration? You shouldn't have. And that's why every day you find yourself making up lies about President Alexander Vukic and his brother Andrija Vukic. You're trying to introduce Andrej Vukic through the auto-projection of your bosses and your schizophrenic ideas. What we've been witnessing lately, you've been trying to attack all those who want good to Serbia. You are also trying to attack Environment Minister Irene Vujovic. You've been attacking for all those things that we've been trying to solve today and the consequences of your misdeeds have been for the past 12 years. You're telling us about rivers, you're telling us about lakes, you're telling us about bad air, and you're not talking about your Minister Oliver Dulic who ran the ministry back then. You are not talking about Dulic, who in almost two years gave a million euros to rent a pano for the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. That's not what you're talking about. You don't want to attack yours and you don't want to attack ours. Well, you know, Mr. Jeremiah, Gilasu, Alexich, we respect our people. We love our people. We're all on one mission here. Also, what I want to continue is that Irene Vujovic, you can't attack because on the principle of the ministry she's been doing a lot for six months, and in those six months she's done a lot. She's done a lot, like the president of the Sava Venac municipality. How come you don't attack, how come you didn't come out to attack her when the Potpetz Lake was cleaned up? How come you didn't say it was a good thing to replace all the individual boiler rooms and carry out the shaming process? But surely, Minister Vujovic would do you good if she gave your companies a million euros, so that you advertise your companies on the billboards of Dragan Dilas, and if she gave you certain projects not to justify these projects. Well, that's not how it works. That could have happened by 2012. Your cousin could have made a deal and you could've shared the money with each other, and that money later on, you could've been out of Serbia. I would like to tell Mr. Aleksic, since you are the former president of Triestenik Municipality, during your term of office, all the people in Triestenik lived badly. But I have to remind you that there was a factory in Triestenik, a Petoletka factory that was then the director of this factory, today's Minister of Industry, and I'd like to tell you, don't engage in politics and fiction, use this period to learn how local self-government works and try not to commit abuses and try to learn that people want results, a better life, not lies. People don't want threats and politics. Look up to Alexander Vukic, and try to work at least one day a week longer than six hours and not attack him, to score a cheap political point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5356	Thank you. Next is counterpart Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5357	Thank you. Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the list Aleksandar Vukic – There is no dilemma for our children and of course will support all proposed candidates, who will be elected to parliamentary delegations and assembly committees. With the hope that he will do his job with responsibility, hard work, according to the Constitution, with the law, with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the benefit of the Republic of Serbia itself. What I want to point out is that the strategic definition of the SNS and our parliamentary group, the approximation, or the entry into the EU, is as full members of the EU and on this road, which we have otherwise designated as a strategic definition, is worth and diligently doing both by adopting and passing laws, by harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, but also in order to achieve standards, values and all that is in the EU's heritage. Why? Because we want a better quality of life and a better standard of living for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. All the time, since coming to power in 2012, the SNS headed by our President, Aleksandra Vukic, has worked hard and hard every day to make every citizen's life in our country better and better. What did we inherit in 2012? We found Serbia which was a home of ruins, a house that had no foundations. By 2012, the yellow tycoon company in the image and Sunday of Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, by spreading lies and delusions towards citizens, declared the economic crisis our great chance. Of course, it was a great opportunity for the yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas, for Vuk Jeremic when they folded millions of people's money into their private pockets and their private accounts, but for the citizens it meant going to the streets of 500,000 people, 500 thousand workers, and the cities in their time were named one name - the valleys of hunger. Five hundred thousand employees lost their jobs, but that number has to be multiplied by four, because of course they all had families and supported other family members. As for their time, the time of government until 2012, and as far as Serbia's position is concerned in international relations, I must point out that Serbia was then humiliated, that it was humiliated, because the yellow tycoon government didn't care about the reputation of Serbia, they only cared about their personal wealth. Today, the Republic of Serbia, thanks to responsible politics and government, but primarily President Alexander Vukic, is respected and respected everywhere, both in Europe and in the whole world. We maintain friendly and build friendly relations and friendships with all countries, both the EU and our traditional partners. First of all, I think of the Russian Federation, China, and all other countries of the world, and of course all for the better positioning of the Republic of Serbia and for the better life of our citizens. What's also comparable, and what can be compared, is that at the time of the yellow tycoon company, there was not enough money to pay for salaries or pensions, because the economy simply didn't work. What generations have produced for decades, they have placed locks and chains on these factories. To maintain social peace, they raised expensive, commercial loans to pay off pensions. Interests on these expensive commercial loans ranged between seven and eight per cent, but of course that didn't touch them very much, as these interest rates were returned by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in advance. Today, pensions are paid out of real income, from real sources. Today in Serbia, only Aleksandar Vukic opened over 230 factories. Only in the city of Nis himself did he open six new factories, and I say that he also brought to the town of Kraljevo factories where the citizens of the city of Kralje were employed, and otherwise the yellow tycoon company shut down all the factories. One of the biggest Magnochrom factories, except that they put a lock on it, even parts of the Magnochrom factory amounted to selling and disbanded all that property and selling it for cheap money that was in the circle of the Magnophrom factory. Also, I must point out that at the time of the yellow tycoon company, the average salary was 320 euros, today it is 540 euros. Of course, the "Serbia 2025" plan aims to make you 900 euros in 2025 and 440 euros in pensions. When it comes to minimum earnings at the time of the yellow tycoon company, it was 16,200 dinars, today it is 32,126 dinars. Today pensions are safe, stable, paid from real sources of income and paid by a new Swiss model. Also, I would like to point out that in 2014 when the President of the Republic was prime minister, it was necessary and necessary to take measures of financial consolidation, which were painful but only possible to achieve the country's economic recovery and in order for Serbia to get its foundations, and the economy is the foundation of every country. I also have to point out that at that time 60% of pensioners, they're the ones with the smallest pensions, and none of them have reduced pensions. So it was taken care of by the poorest and the poorest. That the yellow tycoon company didn't care about workers or young people who needed to get a job and the fact that unemployment was 26% in their time. Only in time from 2008 to 2012 did Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic raise unemployment by 10%. Fortunately, in 2012, citizens decided to take over the SNS. Today unemployment is one-digit, and it's about 9%. At the time of their government, or the government of the yellow tycoon company, they owed both our present and our future, and this is seen at the height of the public debt, because we inherited a public debt of 79%. Today, the public debt is below the Mastricht level, regardless of the Kovid-19 epidemic, which also produced the economic crisis, and that level of public debt is 57.6%. We don't owe our children, we don't owe our future, and today in Serbia there are the biggest investments in capital infrastructure, i.e. capital investments. Salaries and pensions are up. I'm going to say that today's nurses' salary is equal to the salary of a specialist doctor who was at the time of the government of a yellow tycoon company, which means the equal salary of a doctor from 2011. When it comes to those most vulnerable social groups, and first of all, I think about pregnant women, children, people being socially materially threatened, I have to say that the yellow tycoon government didn't take away from this category of population. In Belgrade alone, Dragan Djilas has left 400m dinars in pregnant women's town, remaining in debt on behalf of one-time cash aids, which are aids paid to those poorest citizens to buy and purchase basic life supplies - 120m. Today, no social giving is delayed, no social giving is reduced. Serbia today is not the same as 10 years ago thanks to digitisation and electronic data exchange. The Social Cards Act has also been adopted, which we consider very important for the reason why a single database of beneficiaries of financial social assistance and members of their household will be formed. Why does it matter? Because this government runs a responsible social policy, a responsible financial policy, a responsible economic policy, and because it is important that the funds that are meant for social protection come into the right hands, or come into the hands of the poorest. That's why the Social Card Act that we adopted here in the National Assembly is so important. Also important is the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which is the first preventive law to protect all victims of domestic violence, and that it is important from the aspect of the victims of human trafficking, from the aspect of the victims of domestic violence, as well as the Law on Free Legal Assistance that has also taken effect and is being applied. The yellow tycoon company, in the image and Sunday of Dragan Gilas and his friends, has also gone away from children. It's also taken away from the children to make a personal fortune for Dragan Gilas. He made a false contract saying that the Big Brother's house, otherwise the first reality programme that he brought to Serbia, Dragan Gilas, is being built for reasons of general social interest, as it is foreseen as a living room for children. Bruca and shame! Nothing better with his paltos in Vojvodina Pajtic, who took 156 million for renovation and reconstruction of the Hetherland Castle, and of course the money was not spent to renovate the Hetherland Castle, but only the ruins remained behind. Today, the castle is being renovated, and it will serve for the stay and rest of all children from Serbia. What I want to say is also relevant to responsible foreign policy and our government, but above all our President Alexander Vukic, these are good friendly, partner and trust relations with the strongest economies of the world, I think, when it comes to Europe, with Germany, because Germany invests in our country and in these companies 65,000 citizens of Serbia. When it comes to France, also thanks to good friendship and trust relations between Alexander Vukic and French President Makron, 15,000 people are employed in French companies today. Thanks to the steel friendship between Alexander Vukic and the president of the People's Republic of China Si Jinping, the first contingent of assistance in several planes at the time of the Kovid pandemic has arrived to us from China, both in medical equipment and in doctors who have come to help face our health workers with the invisible death virus covida-19. Finally, I want to say that Alexander Vukic's policy has no alternative, it is a policy of peace, stability and economic progress for the sake of Serbian citizens and for the sake of our future. We're proud to follow this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5358	Next up is counterpart Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5359	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking today about the composition of delegations, as well as members of the Assembly committees. Someone said it was a technical question. Well, maybe, but it's very important who we put in these delegations. It's said that people should be intellectuals. We're all intellectuals here, but the important thing is that whoever's part of the delegations is a patriot means he loves his country, because the word has power. The spoken word has a positive or negative fact. It depends on us whether we strengthen or weaken bilateral relations. It is a great honor to be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a great honor, but also a great responsibility. We need to keep an eye on what we're saying. That's why it's important who's in these delegations. There are 11 delegations in the Assembly. These are primarily delegations to the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxies, as well as delegations to the Interparliamentary Union, delegations to the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative, delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterraneans, delegations to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, delegations to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Conventions on collective security, delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Co-operation Process in Southeast Europe, delegations to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, delegations to the Parliament Assembly of Francophonia, delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation. Why am I pointing this out? Because we're everywhere from our spoken words, we can make a mess, and we can make a improvement, strengthen bilateral relations. Well, let's remember that the Serbs, we, the majority people in this beautiful country, were satanized in the '90s. We've been told that we're rapists, that we're murderers. Well, that's not true. This is a beautiful country with a wonderful people, if it wasn't so good to live in Serbia, so would we have 22 councils from national minorities. This is where people want to live. This is where people come back. They said from the opposition that 400,000 people had left during Mr. Vukic, the president of the Republic of Serbia. A lie, a notor lie, went away in 2008 and 2009, because everyone got fired, 400,000 people got fired, 1,000 judges got fired in 2008 and 2009. So that's why people went to provide their families with basic living conditions, and when the pandemic came, 400,000 people returned to Serbia. Why? Because we have a good health system, because we are leaders in the region as far as development is concerned, because we are leading a peaceful policy, because Serbia is one free sovereign country, because it is our political option or the EU's foreign policy goal, but it is the neutrality of war. Thanks to charisma, good diplomacy, the wisdom of the president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, we have friends in the world today, we make friends. We have extraordinary relations with the People's Republic of China, relations with respect, friendship, and partnerships. Also, with the Russian Federation, with India, with Brazil, with the United Arab Emirates, with France after 30 years, thanks to good diplomacy, namely Mr. President Alexander Vukic's wise policy. Then Germany, with other countries. We give everyone a hand of reconciliation. We are today a factor of stability in the region, we are making big projects about it later, but I just have to point out that when citizens of the Republic of Serbia see that maybe not all MPs are sitting in the hall, that you know that we have other than these delegations, we have committees, we have 20 committees, so we're on these committees, we're here all the time. We also have 152 countries, there are groups of friendships, I'm personally president of a group of friendships with Indonesia, just physically distant to us, but extremely close to a country that hasn't admitted so-called. An independent Kosovo, because there is no such thing, already there is a Republic of Serbia with two autonomous provinces, which is the AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija. So, he had with 152 countries, it's never been, we develop, we connect with people, we run a good, powerful, stable policy, foreign policy, and that's very important. We are a factor of stability in the region, and one of the biggest projects of mass projects, I will only list some, for example "Mini Schengen", meaning four types of freedom. It's who did it, it's President Alexander Wolfie. We have made the Agreement "Mini Schengen" and implemented, first of all, with Northern Macedonia, then, with Albania and the Republic of Serbia, but we have given our hands to other republics of the former, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as Montenegro. Whoever wants this should stick to "Mini Shengen", because these are four kinds of freedoms. The flow of human capital goods, services, recognition of qualifications. The extremely powerful thing done by our President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who wherever he appears changes the image of the Republic of Serbia in the world. We have created a mass of projects, one of the largest is "Belgrade on Water". Let's just remember what was on now, the most beautiful Promenade, the most beautiful settlement in Belgrade, and that was one of the frogs, one of the serpents, the people there couldn't get through, and today is the most beautiful promenades in this part of the world. Digitalisation is one of the major projects, then a gas interconnection, which means that we will achieve energy stability. Then the construction of eight highways, we already built Corridor 10, connected to Northern Macedonia and Bulgaria. Finally, after 50 years, the only way this government led the president was to finish that highway. Also, we do Corridor 11, we work our way to Sarajevo, we work our way to Pristina, we do the highway of course, we work the Moravian Corridor, we do the Frushkogorski Corridor, we do the Karadjordje Corridor, then we do the fast traffic of Ruma-Shabac-Loznica and a lot of things. As for our health care, I can only say, we all remember that by 2012, it was the last thing about health infrastructure services in Europe, and today we are better than many EU countries, which is for every praise. It is still important to point out that it is very important for foreign policy to be networked, but in terms of much information and good relations with all the countries in the world. That turned out to be remarkable. Here's why, because somehow we're much faster and better able to cope with each crisis, and the other is very important because, thanks to the connections, well-leaded foreign policy, we get vaccines when no one is, thanks to the tenacity and endurance of this government and the president. We were among the first to receive vaccines. We were among the first vaccines. We have three million people vaccinated today, we have over a million and three hundred revaccinated. We'll get, I'm sure, and also said Mr. Vukic, president of this wonderful country, that we'll introduce another 12 million vaccines. We are a country full of empathy, this has been shown in case of vaccines being given to our neighbours, because it is very important that we have good neighbourly relations as we do and thanks to President Alexander Vukic, we have these today. We've given the vaccines to Northern Macedonia, helped, and we'll always give it whenever we have. It should be good for everyone in the region, not just us. We gave the vaccines to Montenegro, we gave Bosnia and Herzegovina, we gave it to Albania, and we will give it again. A lot of things can be said and I'll say when we talk about foreign policy, I didn't say it was very important to have great relations with the movement of non-classified people that was created during the old Yugoslavia or the SFRY. Today we have excellent relations with all countries. It's very important and we just make friends everywhere in the world. As far as the economy is concerned, the economy cannot be compared in 2012 and 2021. We're leaders in the region. Let's just remember in 2012, I was already talking about firing, 400,000 people were fired. We've hired more than 300,000 people today. In Serbia, 90,000 young people have returned in recent years. Well, why? Well, because they saw how much work must be done in other countries, and if the same amount of energy they put in here, they'd be the same results, and the government made a programme, special projects for the employment of young people, and set aside half a billion euros or 500m euros for the employment of these young people. We're hiring young cadavers today. Here, today in Parliament sits more than half of the young, creative, smart people who are also in these delegations, great patriots, educated people, and I'm sure our foreign policy will be getting better and better. It should only be pointed out that there is a major change in the arrival of the SNS in 2012, although in 2010 we came to certain municipalities, such as Zemun and Vozdovac municipalities, and then in 2012 at the republical level and since then slowly and surely the improvement of the Republic of Serbia in each segment is the most economics. Today we are very pleased with our pensioners because pensions are increased, three, four times. They'll get pensioners gifts, they get all the time and they need, they created this country, and I'm always up for it. The salary was averaged in 2012 to 320 euros, today the average salary at Serbia level is 520 euros, at the level of Belgrade 540 euros with the tendency to make it 900 euros in 2025. The 2027 projection is to make it 1270 euros. That's why young people come back, because here all their creativity can come out and make this country what it needs to be. I hope that Mr. Vukic will be in power, not hopefully, but I am sure, as long as he wants it and only he wants it, because at this point 58% of the citizens vote for SNS. Thanks, of course, to Mr. Vukic, his charisma, I think he's pulling 98% if not 100%, and we're in the field one two percent. Then, it is very important that there are always young, creative people in parliament who will defend SNS policy, and it has happened, I said, it has never happened again, that people who are in delegations speak uglyly about their country. You know, since the word has power, imagine the one who listens to it, what he thinks about the one who talks. So it never happened again. I am sure that the people who are in these delegations are the great patriots and the very capable people and at any moment represent the most representative policy of the Republic of Serbia. I've got two more things to look at, and that's Gilas and his murderous policy all these years. 53 accounts in 17 countries around the world from our brotherly former republics, so around the world, 67m euros, which is amazing, but it's true, and I'm sure the authorities that are in charge of checking their property and everything else will react and that everyone, not only Gilas, will, but also if they have all the political options to be where they belong, will be behind bars. And, not only 67 million on 53 accounts, but plus 619 million that he crisscrossed in the Republic of Serbia, but that's why he remained due to maternity leaveovers, then we subscribed kindergartens in their time, so we returned to normal prices, and then huge affairs from the affair of buses, the affair of trams, the affairs of underground containers, the Pazl City affair on Vozdovac, which was completely insecure for our children on the sidewalk alone without any room, disaster one, and then the replica of Belgrade, so I don't know what there is, left the debts of the city of Belgrade a billion and 200 million euros. It never happened again. I am sure that these young people who are with us and we will be leading politics, so we will follow Mr. Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that this country will be the most desirable country for life in a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5360	Thank you. Next is the People's MP Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5361	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, respected citizens, means that today, at these three points concerning delegations and the composition of committees, we are actually talking about ourselves and we are working on our jobs, so to speak, in the assembly. So, you can simply see it from the composition of these decisions on delegations and committees and these decisions show that the Assembly is doing great, and I would just briefly look back on it. The assembly, as far as I'm concerned, and I've been following it for the past 20 years, has never worked better than in these half-years because 243 are working constructively and pushing Serbia in one of the best directions. The truth is that we have a few oppositions in the congregation, there are seven of them, but it's not our fault. But I'm going to have to remind you and notice that they're not here right now. Here, let the camera show if there were any of them? It's not. By the way, have they been here all day? Well, they weren't, and were they there yesterday? Well, they're not, and will they be there tomorrow? Well, they won't, they're only there on those rare occasions when they can score some kind of political point in some of the most prominent term, do some brief self-promotion and most often attack the state of Serbia that it's criminal, that it's killing Bosniaks and Albanians and all the other nonsense. But that's what I'm saying is that seven of them are actually great, there should be more, but I invite them to come work. However, the fact that the opposition is not more numerous is the fault of that cowardly Gilasian part of the political party who have not been able to participate in the previous elections, and then today these Gilasovic cowards are challenging the legitimacy of this Assembly, and I will simply look back at some of the things concerning this Assembly in the next part of the speech, both the delegations and the composition of the Committee, i.e. in such a way that we can sometimes ask ourselves, as last June, i.e. Last July, last year, if the Assembly will exist. If the Assembly doesn't exist, there are no delegations, there are no committees, there's nothing, the Assembly doesn't work, and someone will say, well, what now? Well, last year, the Parliament was attacked in July. 21 years ago, this assembly was attacked and burned hostage tried a year ago in July, so they failed, so in the next year, by the spring of 2022, our mandate, the question is what will happen. I will dedicate part of the speech to the one who has hundreds of millions, which he has robbed, aimed exclusively at the destruction of both these congregations and the state and government and everything that exists in this Serbia. Now he says that part of Gilasovski's orders to the Assembly is that we, when we are not in the Assembly, then the Assembly is not legitimate. So how black you are, when most of these Gilasowski parties have one percent. The Serbian Parliament speaks much better of them fighting an epidemic, says vaccination, tells the fact that Serbia is one of the most successful countries in the economy at all during the Corona era and how much yesterday, US Ambassador Godfrey, honored Serbia, to the resilience of its economy. Some economic indicators, average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, also speak of the Serbian Parliament in March 2020, amounted to over 60,000 dinars. The unemployment rate is less than 10%, I say, in December 2019, it is before the crown, but also in the crown, I said, Serbia is one of the most successful countries. The total number of unemployed is reduced by that part here, to finish it over 400,000 unemployed there are fewer, these are all visible results. About the Serbian Parliament, the best one is the huge number of laws and regulations passed over the past nine years and in this mandate, over the past six months. These are the foundations of Serbia's progress. The Serbian Parliament is best spoken of by all those new hospitals, health homes, kindergartens, highways, infrastructures, factories, monuments, millions of squares built throughout Serbia, even countless more. Now let me move on to the dangers that threaten this congregation. Tikun Gilas, who owns hundreds of millions of euros and has focused on destruction, said on April 3rd there will be no elections, as he will organise streets, protests and violent overthrows of authorities unless he wins those elections. In 2019, when they tried to attack and take over RTS, he tried to do so in July 2020, when they attacked this Assembly with fascist attacks. On Friday (April 1st), Deputy Deputy Dragan Djilas, B. Stefanovic, announced that the SAA would annul all decisions made over the past 9 years, and earlier the party's vice president, Marko, called "Trotinet Bastic", announced that they would tear down everything that has been built in the last nine years. As you can see, they are not hiding it and now you have a statement by Gilasov, Stefanovic, you have a statement from Bastac. It's all from the same party. So, what they're announcing, this means in practice, that they're going to tear down all newly built hospitals, and clinical centres, if they come to power, that they're going to cancel all decisions on the purchase of vaccines and the production of vaccines, if they come to power, that they're going to tear down all newly built schools and kindergartens, if they come to power. That they would tear down hundreds of kilometers of built highways, if they came to power, that they would bring down the monument to Stefan Nemanja, if they came to power, that they would bring down the monument of Borislav Pekic, if they came to power, that they would also bring down that yet-to-be monument of the Nobel Prize, Rabindranat Tagor, if they came to power, that if they came to power, they would level with the land of the reconstructed Square of the Republic, if they came to power. That in the previous state of destruction, the people's museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art will be happy to return, and will shut them down, if they come to power, to redecorate all reconstructed streets in Serbia, to tear down all new production plants throughout Serbia, if they come to power and to throw out, watch out, they announced, you will hear later, that they will throw out all foreign investors, if they come to power. On March 20th and April 10th, Gilas reiterated it, another in a series of his genius plans, a plan for a destructive day after, when he announced he would come to power. Ever since he came back to politics, this is the third plan he's presented. In 2018 he presented a plan for a better life, and a little later, I think, in 2019, a programming platform. Be careful, if Gilas really wanted to do something for the citizens of Serbia, he could have done it from the opposition since 2018 in the last three years. He owns hundreds of millions of euros. If he had donated to the citizens, my dear, only 1% of his wealth through humanitarian activities and donations his popularity, personal, would not be 1% and his clients 3%, but much more. The best chance to, under the quote, buy the favor of the citizens of Gilas was during last year's and this year's crown. He could donate to the citizens masks, gloves, disinfectants, respirators, he could donate money to buy vaccines. The best example was in this regard by Novak Djokovic, who donated a million euros to Serbia to buy a respirator. Unlike this constructive approach, Gilas had only been destructive. He cynicalally donated to Serbia those 100 euros he received from the state. He has not donated to Serbia in these years, nor at any time, any mask, no gloves, no respirator, and he has snuck into vaccination, although he has been blaspheming for months against vaccination, and he has received exactly the vaccine he has declared undesirable for several months afterwards, i.e. Russian vaccine. When we talk about Gilas' plans and promises, the most important question arises, and I'll give you some of them. Why didn't he do all this during that period from 2004 to 2013, when he was in power? The answer is simple, the Democratic Party, whose member he was then and the president only cared about how to rob Serbia, and Gilas only cared about the illegal acquisition of 619m euros. That all that Gilas promises is a huge lie confirms many disagreements between these three Gilas programs. Here, I'll remind you. The 2018 SSP programme platform, Gilasovo, has pledged 2.5 billion euros annually to launch an investment cycle, roughly, in the economy and infrastructure. However, the plan for a better life he spent a few weeks ago is quite different. Gilas says -- we will invest one billion euros in the economy and infrastructure. Well, how did we come from two years ago, 2.5 billion, and now only a billion? He didn't care, nor did he read those plans much, nor did he write them. So, that all Gilas' plans are pure untrue shows Gilas' promise of a plan a day later, that's now the latest one, where every farmer now guarantees 100 euros a hectare subsidies. However, he forgot that a year ago, with a plan for a better life, he promised much greater subsidies to peasants, up to 150 euros per hectare. Well, how now? So let's cut some bills. So it's been three years, and we have a lot of Gilas' plans, and it's possible to make a comparison between Gilas' promises and Gilas's accomplishments. The comparison shows a total discrepancy between Gilas’ current promises and what he did while in power. I'll just briefly mention that period from 2004 to 2013. So Gilas then promised, as mayor, that he would fully develop the city, that there would be a metro, general progress, three bridges, all free of charge, etc. He achieved the following -- he made enormous wealth in person, achieved his companies' incomes, hence, personal revenues of 619m euros, while performing three state functions, in an illegal manner, and Belgrade's cumulative debt came at the end of its mandate to 1.2 billion euros. The city was shaken, we remember, affairs of directorship, boulevard, containers, bus-plus, bridge, etc. The employment rate in 2012 was among the lowest in Europe, at 44%. The unemployment rate was among the highest again, it was 25%, I said now it's 9.7%. The average earnings in July 2012, amounted to 40,000 dinars, and now to 60,000 dinars. We are now going to the period since 2013, mainly since 2018 when he returned to politics. In 2018, Gilas promised to win the city elections, and it was convincing, and he promised the rapid fall of Vukic, and I quote it. In his programme for Belgrade then, he promised that everything would be free, and in reality what happened? Gilas has lost the Belgrade elections infamously, does not use the mandates he has won. He personally does not come to the meetings of the City Assembly for seven years, and takes, of course neatly, the compensation. As for the new Gilas promises now, I'll be brief. So, you've heard, a billion euros in better people's lives, a minimum of 350 euros, the salary of beginner doctors 1,000 euros, nurses 600 euros, teachers 700 euros, will be reduced taxes and contributions, beware, by 50%... Now, listen to this, Gilas promises that everything sold to foreigners will be returned to state property. I don't know if the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Government have heard about this, has Mrs Tanya Fajon heard about this and will they respond to this? Well, they haven't heard, and they probably won't react. Gilas promised, which sounds amazing, a direct choice of mayor and president of the municipalities. Look, what did he end it for when he was in power? It increases the established independence of the judiciary. When he was in power, he was fired, we've been listening here for days to those points, 1,000 judges and prosecutors. How does he promise the exact opposite? By the way, Gilas promises a complete depolitisation of the security service. Just to remind you, the former head of security has been working as his father for five years, as his official, whose main function is to go to Trieste and eat the Capreze salad over there on the riverbed in Trieste. Wonderful. That's depolitical? Okay. He also promises the lustration law. He promises otherwise we'll all go to jail when he comes to power. He promises the courts of the revolution. What, in the end, didn't Gilas do when he was in power? Well, because it was all a lie that he was saying then and all he's saying now is, it's also a lie. Finally, Gilas said, and it has repeatedly repeated this year, that elections will be held by the end of this year. I guarantee you, and we all guarantee you and guarantee the citizens, regular elections will be held in the spring of 2022. Otherwise, what Gilas says will be held this year is contradictory of his same threats when he threatens the election will not be. To end Gilas' achievements. During the period from 2014 to today, Gilas avoided paying taxes through offshore businesses which damaged the country by tens of millions of euros and the budget. Gilas has one of the biggest, 53 secret accounts with 68m euros in 17 countries. I'm done. At the time of the government of Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas, everything was at a humiliating level. Their regime humiliated all Serbian citizens, also humiliated this assembly. Serbia was not a decent society at the time. Now it is. A decent society is the society whose institutions don't humiliate people. Civilised society is the society whose members do not humiliate each other. Every decent and civilized society is also a fair society. Serbia is now, in the Vucic era, in our time, and decent, and civilized and just society. In Vucic's Serbia, there is harmony between promises of words and deeds. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5362	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5363	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are on the agenda of today's session, among other things, the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. It is the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association that is one of the key bodies for monitoring the agreement and implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in addition to the Stabilisation and Association Council and the Stabilisation and Association Committee, and this decision also shows that we care that we meet our international obligations in the best possible way and represent our country. When I talk about this, I want to, first of all, look at the criticism coming from individual representatives of the former regime, at the expense of Serbia's European integration. It is funny when from 2000 to 2012, you hear criticism about Serbia's European integration, as it is they who have failed the process of European values, European integration and the process that is today stable thanks to responsible policy by Alexander Vukic. Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic sold years of fog on European integration without any essential reforms. During our imaginary European ideas, we lost more than a decade in the process of European integration, and precisely because of this false European policy, this group has brought itself down to the level of statistical error. But how many false Europeans Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic best show that they have built their own Alliance for Serbia in time with leader Dvora Bosko Obradovic, who openly opposes Serbia's entry into the EU. I must point out that the biggest and essential progress in the European integration process has been made since 2014, i.e. by the government led by Aleksandar Vukic. Thanks to the government, we have turned the failed policy of European integration of the former regime into a stable reform process that will result in Serbia's EU membership. The progress made is seen in the number of exponential and bilateral screenings, committees and subcommittees and Stabilisation and Association Agreements, intergovernmental conferences, and especially since 18 negotiating chapters have been opened, while the two are provisionally closed. When I talk about the process of European integration, I must also point out that in the previous seven years there has been a struggle for every new chapter, and only those who do not understand what is happening in the EU in terms of internal processes in the EU, the very process of negotiations and political conditions can be easily criticised. I must point out that due to the start of the 2015 migrant crisis, when we opened the first chapters, there was resistance from some important EU members to enlargement policy. The enlargement policy has also been affected by Bregzit, as the EU has first faced the situation in its history that one member leaves the Union A lot has changed in the previous period in the European integration process, but continues to change with a new methodology that clusters the chapters, but it is also important that our citizens know that we cannot directly influence EU membership itself. It is a political decision by an EU member, which does not necessarily depend on our reforms, nor on our readiness, but on the political decision of EU members and the EU itself. The EU enlargement process is highly conditioned by the political will of the Member States, and far less by meeting the technical criteria. The European integration process depends on at least two sides, but in this case, the other side, the other side, makes 27 Member States, and as you all know, there are countries that oppose EU enlargement. However, Serbia is today being treated as a serious partner and not only empty stories show the EU Enlargement Strategy for the Western Balkans of 2018, where it recognised Serbia as a leader on its way to the EU. I must also point out that we are the only candidate who has formed a special Ministry of European Integration, which shows our commitment to this process, but I want to point out that European integration is a process for the whole society, for the whole government and for each of us who can contribute to achieving our goal, which is, in addition to EU membership, that we can say that we stand side by side with the largest and strongest EU countries. I think the vaccination process has just shown that Serbia is a serious state in which there is a system and which, even today, when we are not in the EU, can be without a problem steaming EU members. I must also point out that we highly appreciate that, despite the numerous challenges facing the previous period, the EU itself has managed to keep the issue of enlargement on the agenda in its agenda, particularly through the recent adoption of a new methodology for the negotiation process. When I talk about a new methodology, I have to point out that although we were not obliged to accept a new methodology, we did it because we want to show that Serbia is ready to speed up the dynamics of the accession process. As for the methodology itself, it changes the process of European integration, introduces a new approach, so it is no longer a focus on individual negotiating chapters, but on clusters that have a total of six. The negotiating chapters are now becoming a secondary instrument for the process of European integration, as EU sectoral policies presented through six clusters are now key: the rule of law, the internal market, competitiveness, inclusive growth, the green agenda and infrastructure, resources, agriculture and cohesion policy and external relations. In most clusters, Serbia has already opened a significant number of negotiating chapters, which is why we expect the EU to explain to us as soon as possible how it will appreciate and evaluate Serbia's success on its European path. Finally, I would like to point out that EU membership, which we are seeking, is not for the sake of membership itself, but for the sake of our future and for the new generations to come. Serbia's goal is not mere membership and meeting the technical criteria for opening and closing negotiating chapters and clusters on the road. Our goal is to build a modern state as a credible and successful EU member, which will be able to contribute to the further development of the European idea, and I am sure that we will succeed in this path thanks to responsible policy by Alexander Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5364	Thank you. Next up is colleague Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5365	Thank you, Chairman. One of the points of today's agenda is the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. First of all, I want to explain what role this committee plays in Serbia's European integration process. The Committee consists of MEPs and MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It meets twice a year, and at these joint meetings we are considering Serbia's progress in the European integration process, we are more closely monitoring the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We are also dealing with all current topics, such as Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue, EU pre-accession assistance to Serbia, foreign, security policy, and the presentation of benefits from EU membership to Serbian citizens. At the end of each meeting, we adopt a joint declaration. Why is the work of this Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee important? One reason is that we can, in a direct conversation with colleagues from the European Parliament, consider the topics that are extremely important to us, and which does not include, of course, only happening in Serbia, but also happening within the EU itself, which certainly affect and reflect what is happening in our region. EU membership is our main foreign policy objective, primarily because of the introduction of the standards of the most developed Western countries in all areas of our society and the National Assembly in this process, and not only because of the adoption of laws, i.e. adapting to EU standards in this area, but has a very developed parliamentary diplomacy, i.e. co-operation with colleagues from other parliaments. I would like to set aside meetings of the Committee on European Integration with colleagues from the Committee on European Affairs of EU member states twice a year. Then I would set up meetings with colleagues from the region's parliaments also with the same committees. All of us in our region have the same goal, which is EU membership. We are at different stages of this process, but we can share our experiences with each other, but thus show that regional co-operation, peace, stability, our region, is really high on our list of priorities. However, regardless of all the internal challenges facing the EU, but also the common challenges such as the Kovida-19 pandemic, the migrant crisis, the terrorist attack and many other challenges, we do have very good co-operation in almost all areas. I will now list some of the examples relating to the fight against the coronary pandemic, which is that at the beginning of the pandemic last April, the EU donated 4.9m euros in aid to Serbia to fight the coronary virus, one of which was invested in the delivery of medical equipment, the purchase of respirators, masks, tests, protection, laboratory and other necessary medical equipment. It is only part of the funds the EU provides to Serbia in support of emergency, short- and medium-term measures to combat the effects of the pandemic. This year, on March 19th, the representatives of health institutions in Serbia were given keys to 20 sanitary vehicles, which were obtained through the EU donation programme. In early April, we received a donation worth 490,000 euros for 26 different health institutions across Serbia. We recently received the first delivery of vaccines from the “Kovaks” system, which is 57,000 doses of “Astra Zeneka” vaccine. In the health sector alone, the EU has donated and lent 450m euros over the past two decades to modernise the health system. In addition to co-operation in the area of health, which at this point is a priority, I would like to give some more examples of our co-operation. We recently adopted a 1.7m-euro loan agreement in the National Assembly to introduce a broadband internet. Serbia has run for a project to introduce broadband internet in rural areas of Serbia for the EU's economic investment plan for the Western Balkans, which is important for linking with the European economy and sources of new growth. This project is important for cluster 4, which refers to digital connection and green arrangement. Through this project, we have touched the objectives of three cluster development policies that we will negotiate with the EU in the future. In addition to this project, the European Integration Ministry has prepared 12 major infrastructure projects under the Western Balkans Investment Plan. I can say, on the basis of all this, that Serbia has recognised in time what development instruments and new EU leading policies are, and certainly one of the most significant ones that connects all these areas I have talked about is the Digital Agenda for the Western Balkans, launched by the European Commission in 2018. The objective of this agenda is to support the transition of regions to the digital economy and to achieve the benefits of digital transformation such as faster economic growth, more employees and better services. The reforms we are conducting are not only the work of parliament, which concerns Serbia's EU accession, but is the work of the entire government and this process is co-ordinated by the European Integration Ministry, and when it comes to IPA funds, the European Integration Minister, who is also a national IPA coordinator. Although Serbia is negotiating by, I can say, the most difficult methodology and by very strict criteria, our negotiations are still specific to all other candidate countries, above all because progress in all areas is being monitored in parallel with progress in dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. That, of course, no other country, like I said, had. The slowdown of the enlargement process, which applies only to Serbia but also to other countries in the region that claim to be EU members, has taken place not only because of the pandemic, but also because of the critical relationship of one part of the EU member states towards enlargement. I hope that in the coming period there will be a harmonisation of positions within the EU, not only in terms of enlargement, but also in a number of other issues that are equally important to us. The European Union is our most significant foreign trade partner, with which we have a 68% exchange. The most investment comes right from EU countries, the very top of Italy and Germany, and I am very glad that this type of co-operation has not slowed down during the pandemic. Finally, our goal, our interest is a unique and stable EU, because a stable EU means peace and stability in our region and vice versa. I am sure that as MPs, we will take advantage of all the advantages of parliamentary diplomacy and that through delegations and committees, whose composition we are adopting today, we will make our contribution to this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5366	Thank you. The next is MP Veroljub Arsic, with a comment that there are only two minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5367	Thank you, Chairman. Two minutes is very little time, but it can be used. As counterpart Markovic said, one of the topics is the composition of the parliament of the Stabilisation and Association Committee, and I would like to say that this committee, which is a means of facilitating Serbia's entry into the EU, did not occur during the former regime's government because the former regime, which is now headed by Dragan Gilas, only had on the promise to citizens that one day, when this happens, while they are in power, Serbia will become a full member of the EU. It is a very short time for two minutes to talk about what was happening in the European integration of Dragan Gilas, but I can only say one thing, that during the rule of Dragan Gilas Belgrade for a year was without mayor because Dragan Gilas, when he was in power, was not allowed to go to the election of Alexander Vukic, who was then the opposition, face-to-face, to go to Belgrade's citizens and to elect the mayor. So we are not surprised that Dragan Gilas no longer wants to go to the polls and asks for someone else to bring him through some transitional institutions to power, to continue to start a job, which is to be even richer than he was when he lost power.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5368	Thank you. Does anyone else who has time want to take advantage of that time? The word has Alexander Mirkovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5369	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, at the very end of today's session, I must refer to the fact that today's constructive debate has only shown how much of the MPs in this House really care that all decisions being made and that every decision is under discussion, and even these solutions for which one part of the opposition and one part of the media, which are directly controlled by Dragan Gilas, are irrelevant. In fact, during today's session, as we discussed both committees and delegations here, while MPs presented their vision of the work of committees and delegations themselves, while we listened to constructive proposals, criticisms, criticisms, as we listened to what could be better, what could be different and what has been done so far, imagine in the media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, our MPs today are burdened by having discussed committees and staff solutions. So now the problem, namely, has been debated today for several hours by MPs about committees and staff solutions, although so far it has been a practice to change delegations just to find out. Come on, guys, now make a deal between yourselves. When we discuss not answering, when there is no discussion again does not respond, so is there one thing that will be said in this House, and that you will not immediately use it to attack the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Let's just answer one question - what was wrong today? So now the problem is that MPs are working and sitting. I don't know what else we can expect, but the fact is that only the responsible approach of every MP who participated in this discussion today and was in the hall today is an indicator of how much we truly care about all the citizens of Serbia and our country. What is especially proud of all of us, in no report, which has so far been filed by the media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, I have not heard anything that has been told here is false and that it is a lie. It best says that they led Serbia once, and in which direction Serbia is now moving. Thank you and support these suggestions. I wish the candidates a lot of success in their work. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-14-0.u5370	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? If not, I conclude a joint single search on the motions for decisions. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Wednesday, 14 April 2021, starting at 17 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. That's in five minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we begin to decide on the points of the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that, at this point in the hall, 171 MPs are present, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are therefore conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105, paragraph 2, paragraphs 12, 13 and 15. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, by the majority of the votes of all MPs, exercises electoral authority. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office, in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office, in Smederev, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -173, for – 172, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Point 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office. Before we go to the vote on this item of the agenda, I remind you of the provisions of Article 201(3) and (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, which reads: "In the course of the search at the meeting of the committee responsible and at the session of the National Assembly, the MP may challenge the proposal for the selection of individual officials referred to in Article 1, in which this dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. The National Assembly decides on a proposal for the selection of disputed candidates individually, and on a proposal to elect non-contested candidates decides in general, by public vote. “ So we will have more votes within this point. In line with these provisions, I would like to put forward a motion to elect Jelena Kosovic, judge in the Higher Court of Sombor, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as judge in the Higher Court of Sombor. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, a abstentioned one, did not vote 172. I find that the National Assembly did not select Jelena Kosovic as the judge of the basic court in Sombor, most of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Munir Jusovic, judge at the Court of Justice in Novi Pazar, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: 173 in total did not vote 173. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Munir Jusovic as the judge of the basic court in Novi Pazar by the majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Aladin Madzovic, the beneficiary of the initial training at the Judicial Academy, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as the judge of the basic court in Novi Pazar. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: a total of -173, did not vote -173. I find that the National Assembly did not select Aladdin Majdovic as the judge of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar most of the votes. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mirjana Lukic, the user of initial training at the Judicial Academy, whose proposal was challenged by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, as the judge of the Primary Court in Požarevec. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: a total of -173, did not vote -173. I find that the National Assembly did not select Mirjana Lukic as the judge of the primary court in Požarevec, most of the votes. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, without disputed candidates in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 173, for - 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf the elected functionholders of the election and wish them much success in their work. The third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 173, for - 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 173, for - 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The fifth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 173, for - 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. As you know, tomorrow is the eighth session with energy laws, plus a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Since there are amendments, all you need to know is that tomorrow we'll have a principle debate, and we'll continue the details on Tuesday. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. (The session is closed at 17.10 p.m. )
