ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9406	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the fourteenth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 82 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 105 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present. There are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request an explanation or notice in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9407	Thank you. I'm going to ask a few questions, since apparently the last few months have been a large number of our agricultural holdings, our people living in border areas, living in higher areas, such as the Cave, such as the Dry Mountain, as the Old Mountain, the big problem with these households is the water problem. Climate change is evident. My question is is, is there any possibility that within the government, funds will be provided to provide tankers with drinking water? Normally, it would be good to include the army, to provide a larger number of tanks, but according to my information, there is a lack of these drinking water tanks. It would be good if the competent ministry, for the village, did for agriculture, did the Ministry of Undeveloped Areas provide funds within their budgets, if not for this one, then for the next financial year, for these local self-governments, in these areas to provide a tank for, God forbid, when to provide drinking water? Drinking water is necessary for humans themselves, but it would normally be good to provide water for domestic animals because in these areas sheep, cows, goats and all that is needed for the development of our agriculture. As we said earlier that without the development of livestock, there is no development of agriculture, and we know where livestock is the easiest to perform, these are the higher areas that I spoke about earlier, these are areas where God was given both for sheep, for cattle, for goats and for those other species of livestock, normally and for beekeeping, but because of this situation. On the Dry Plan, there was water shortages, where our agriculture minister came out on the spot, certain quantities were provided, but it would be good if because of this apparent change in climate change to solve this in a different way, to provide greater opportunities, to dig wells, and we could do it easier through the ministry that we have, specifically related to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Not Developed Areas. That's what matters. I would point out that the budget for 2022 provides funds. We already have a government programme announced by Serbian President 2020 - 2025, where problems and water supply and waste water and sewers will be addressed. It's a big deal. One of my questions is the government. Within ten days, it is heard in the media, and announced by the minister without portfolio Novica Tonchev that the ministry of undeveloped areas he runs will be dislocated, i.e. it will be mixed and will be on the territory of the city of Nisa. Otherwise, I'd like to commend it. It's a very good move from our government to make it within the territory of the city of Nis because there are the largest number of undeveloped municipalities there. In the territory of the city of Nis and in the territory of southeastern Serbia, there are a really large number of undeveloped areas, i.e. municipalities that are the fourth and fifth groups of underdevelopment, which would make it a good thing and a good sign that they will work on decentralisation in the next period. In particular, the southeast of Serbia, where the Nis Center is a very important place because the big hub, where we have many roads, passes a large number of people. There are now roads to Pristina where the airport is expanding, where Nis's departures to all countries of the world are increasing. So Nis really is the centre of southeastern Serbia. For this, I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia that has accepted, and Minister Novica Tonchev announced that the ministry's headquarters will be in Nis. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9408	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has the People's MP Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9409	Thank you, Chairman. I'm asking the Department of Health, and it's about the pin of the pass. State Secretary Mirsad Gjerlek announced that everything is ready for the introduction of a covid pass, but that a final decision is pending. My question is what does this decision depend on and who should give the green light? Those who are against the cove of passes say that their introduction violates human rights, but we are witnessing that in many EU countries and Western democracies and passes have been applied months ago, so that these opinions should not discourage and challenge the final decision to introduce this measure. I am more discouraged by the fact that every day we have six, seven thousand infected, and a few dozen dead from the crown, and that a little less than 41% of citizens have been immunized. Yesterday I heard a sentence from a reporter from Novi Sad that we all need to ask ourselves, which is that the testing lines are bigger than the vaccination lines. That sentence tells us everything. Covid pass, this public should know, above all, that they are serving to stop the spread of the infection and it is a perfectly healthy and correct decision that only those who have been vaccinated, or with a covid pass, can stay in the places where the biggest crowds are created. I want to ask another question, and that's how to prevent abuses with a bunch of passes, because we hear from unvaccinated every day that it's no problem to falsify, or copy someone's pass and show it as their own, because there's no possibility that, say, in a bar or in a nightclub, someone who isn't authorized to do that. I trust in the minds of those citizens who have been vaccinated and thus have already shown responsibility for themselves and others that they will not give their certificates to others, because in that case they would endanger both their own and the health of other people. My final question is does the Ministry of Health feel that the introduction of a covid pass would be some kind of incentive if we had already exhausted all other visions to increase the number of vaccines, especially among young people who visit the most nightclubs and cafes, and is it thought that without a single pass you cannot enter a public transport, a mall, a concert, a game, to some private celebration that gathers a number of people and how can this be controlled? There is another concern among citizens who received two doses of vaccine, and it has been six months since the second dose was received. Are they considered immunized and can they get an id pass if they do not receive a third dose and are they still subject to a certificate for entry into other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9410	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Jasmine Karanac. The word has a national emissary, Selma Kučević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9411	Thank you, Chairman. I refer my question today to the Minister of Forestry, Agriculture and Water Management. The issue of changing the forest land seat from Raska to Tutin has already been forced several times. To this day, however, the situation is the same, or unchanged. Although I suppose the resolute minister well knows the opportunities I will speak of, I must remind him that he himself was present at the visit of the president of Serbia to the municipality of Tutin in 2018, when the president himself promised, among other things, to the citizens of this municipality and to help change the seat of the forest land, but, as I said, everything remains only in words and promises until today. The total area of the Gornjeibar forest area is 49,440 ha, of which Tutin belongs to 26.229 ha. The total volume is 6,305 m3, of which Tutin belongs to 3,671 m3. The total volume threshold is 161,750 m3 of which Tutin 93,252 m3 belongs. Thus, half of the total area of this forest economy belongs to the municipality of Tutin, both in forest coverage and in volume, in volume, in volume, in quality of the forest. What is important to point out is that in 30 years since this forest economy has existed, no citizen of the Tutin municipality has ever managed it, with adequate conditions, or quality humane solutions. The Tutin municipality's forest administration was the most involved in the construction of buildings in Golia and Kopalnik, but no such facility, nor was the project initiated on the territory of this municipality. The question arises why, if we consider that it is also a mountain-mounted area with exceptional natural beauty? Given all the arguments and data presented, where forest coverage is 53%, the total volume 58%, the volume increase 57.7%, which means that more than half of these state forests in this land have the Tutin municipality and that it deserves to be the seat of this land right in Tutin, which certainly does not match the forest law, which defines these forest and economic areas, and is not defined which of these municipalities belongs to the seat of this land, so that if it were defined, then it would be the most realistic thing to be right in the Tutin municipality. So I ask the question to the resolution minister why is this change in the seat of the forest land still pending when the conditions have long been met and whether the promises of the president of Serbia and the ministers are real or still only about the media performance for the citizens? Also, another of the problems that citizens of this municipality face are certainly worrying scenes of mass and not selective cutting down forests, which have been back in this area for years. The cutting forest takes place even at night, so the locals of certain areas were forced to stop themselves, although they signed various petitions, petitions, appeals, appeals. They have never received an adequate response from the competent institutions to this day, so I ask why, on whose orders, our forests are being hijacked and who allows the lungs of this city to be destroyed? I want to refer to the situation we have in the Tutin municipality for a moment, and it concerns the dispute leading the "Serbishum", i.e. the Tutin Forest Administration, against the construction of an ecopark in this municipality. This dispute is being conducted under the pretext of no less than the protection of forests and forest areas. So a number of applications, applications, petitions, and none of the answers from the competent institutions were received, but when it comes to some project that's of general importance, then we're rapidly getting court bans. It is very important to point out that this project contains absolutely no irregularities, that the project has been approved by the tourism ministry, that it does not foresee absolutely any deforestation, but exclusively the adaptation of the terrain. This project is being implemented to protect the locale, and it's eco-friendly. As you know, the Tutin municipality is the largest birthplace in this country and the largest number of babies born. Therefore, this municipality needs parks and playgrounds and therefore I urge the Minister to react as quickly as possible and to stop these malicious tendencies of individuals, or political staff from the forest administration, and to carry out this project uninterruptedly, and these cheap political points can certainly collect in some other way and other ways, not consecrating children and jeopardising their fundamental rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9412	I thank the MP Selma Kučević. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9413	On behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to refer a question to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, and the issue is related to the restoration of the Bačka Topola-Baimok traffic. In particular, when can you expect work to restore this traffic station? Although it seems that a traffic station connecting two small towns of Baimok and Backo Topol, and the length of the route is 29km, is not a matter of great importance. I need to introduce you to the facts that speak exactly the opposite. Namely, rehabilitation of Bačka Topola – Baimok is important because it represents a link between the state road II A row, 105, highway A1. Practically, this stock connects the A1 highway to the Baimok-Bachalmash border crossing. Aware of the importance of State Road II A order, 105, connecting Serbia's state border with Hungary and Romania, from the Baemok border crossing to the Vrbica border crossing and the Baimok settlements, Pacir, Stara Moravica, Baka Topola, Novo Orahovo, Senta, Čoka, Mokrin, SVM also introduced the special point of reconstruction of the road route Back Topola – Baimok into the coalition agreement with SNS. We are calling on the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure to re-establish this station as quickly as possible, and it is estimated that 275 million dinars are needed for several reasons. Since, especially over the summer, we have enormous pressure from Western workers travelling to the wider region across our country, we can expect more border crossings to be opened to Hungary, which will work from 00-24, and among them the Baymek border crossing. Bajmek - Bacalmaš border crossing opened in early 2019 and was estimated to pass around 100,000 cars annually. The extent to which the crossing of the state border between Serbia and Hungary is intensified is also the fact that by 2012 there were five border crossings between Serbia and Hungary, and today there are nine border crossings. The renewed route would mean better regional integration of the settlements in the Municipality of Backo Topol with settlements of neighbouring municipalities, Subotica, Sombor, Kula, Mali Ijoš, Becej, Ada, Senta and better integration of economic potentials, especially considering the planned regional path of Sombor – Kikinda. According to data available in the draft of the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia from 2021 to 2035, the AP Vojvodina is the lowest coverage of the road network, as well as the lowest coverage of the population by road network. For years, conscious problems, SVM has been making efforts to make as much effort as possible to build and restore the Vojvodina road network from highway level to regional, municipal, rural and Atharic roads. The matter of security certainly takes an important place. Bad August has caused traffic accidents often with a tragic outcome. Otherwise, it is a road that passes through Pacir and Stara Moravico, places that develop Banish tourism, springs of thermal healing waters and it is important that access to a growing number of visitors be safe and secure and can come the shortest way. The SVM is the position that the regional networking of Vojvodina with road infrastructure and connecting with pan-European corridors is the only way to remove narrow throats, improve infrastructure and simplify cross-border traffic of passengers and goods with the region and the EU. That is why we hope that the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure will initiate the work on the reconstruction of Bačka Topola – Baimok shares as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9414	The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly National MP Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9415	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. Dear People's MPs, as the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic said on Monday, the sixth incursion of Pristina police forces and specialists of ROSU took place on Monday, using armored transporters and long pipes to the north of KIM, and so on. The international community, or NATO forces within KFOR, have done nothing to prevent it. I remind you that from the point of view of the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia, but also from the corner of international law, the Pristina forces of repression are illegal and illegal. They are for Serbia and the UN simply paramilitary and parapolitan forces. Why are we from the PUPS Group "Three P" saying that? The 1999 Preamble of Resolution 1244, adopted by the UN Security Council, reads that "the Security Council reaffirms the attachment of all Member States to sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and other countries of the region and reaffirms the appeal from previous resolutions for broad autonomy and essential self-government for Kosovo." So the UN Security Council does not know or recognise any state in Kosovo. Also, in the same preamble of the Security Council requires the SRJ then to start and end its withdrawal in stages from Kosovo, in a way that can be verified, by all military, police and paramilitary forces in line with the emergency schedule, with which the deployment of the international security presence in Kosovo will be synchronised, which is SRJ, or Serbia as the country that inherited its international and legal continuity and fulfilled it. In the next paragraph of the Security Council preamble, it further confirms that following the withdrawal of the agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian military and police personnel, it will be allowed to return to Kosovo to perform its duties in accordance with Annex 2. However, the Security Council also suggests the following: "demilitarisation of the Kosovo Liberation Army and other armed groups of Kosovo Albanians", not only not only has it not been met, but NATO as a dominant part of KFOR, contrary to Resolution 1244, even directly supported the formation of a special Albanian army at KIM. Now let's go back to the key Annex 2 of this Resolution. The Security Council at point 5 requires the establishment of a temporary administration for Kosovo as part of an international civilian presence under which the people of Kosovo will be able to enjoy essential autonomy within the framework of the SRJ. So, no new independent state here has a letter. Then follow point 6) of Annex 2 which, especially these days, logically imposes my parliamentary question. In particular, the Security Council stresses that following the withdrawal of the agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian personnel, it will be allowed to return to Kosovo and perform the following functions: a link with the international civilian mission and international security presence, marking and cleaning minefields, maintaining attendance at Serbian cultural heritage sites, maintaining presence at the main border and border crossings. This is the last key evidence that Serbia is from the point of view of the international law of the state from Horgos to Dragas, not as they are trying to convince us of those who have committed aggression against Serbia in 1999, that Serbia is only to Merdar, Brnjak and Jarinj. So my question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is -- when will Serbia, respectively point 6) of Annex 2 of Resolution 1244, ask the UN Security Council to approve a return to a thousand unformed persons of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of KIM, as provided for by this Resolution? I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9416	I thank Vice President Krkobic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9417	I thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these days, more precisely from September 21st to September 30th, hold the 76th session of the UN General Assembly. Unlike the previous year, when representatives of the state spoke through video messages, a physical presence was allowed this year. I am convinced that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic will best present Serbia and lobby for our interests, both at the meeting itself and at numerous bilateral and multilateral meetings that will be held on the sidelines. What is also very important to us and is happening right now in New York, these are lobbying the false state of Kosovo for admission to certain international organisations and recognition by countries that have not done so so far. Osmani met with Costa Rican President, President of Guyana and asked for help in lobbying neighbouring countries for new recognitions, strengthening state subjectivity and planning in international organisations. Osmani also voiced Pristina's view that Kosovo is constructive, she said, in dialogue with Serbia, and that dialogue makes sense if only mutual recognition will eventually follow. Mrs. Osmani, this is not the kind of mutual recognition we're talking about here. Serbia will never recognise KIM's unilaterally declared independence, Serbia gained its independence from the Ottoman Empire at the Berlin Congress in 1878, and you have declared Kosovo against all international law rules, the UN Charter, UN Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council. Pristina representatives also lobby for membership in international organisations, noting, among other things, that Kosovo is their primary goal of becoming a NATO member as soon as possible because of what they say is securing peace in the region. Unfortunately, all this could have been expected after the end of the one-year moratorium when it comes to the Washington Agreement and the part relating to lobbying for Kosovo's new recognitions and Kosovo's membership into international organisations. Serbia has consistently advocated respect for international law and a legally binding Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council, as well as for any agreement signed so far, each item of the Brussels Agreement. So far, we have fully implemented and fulfilled everything provided for in these legal acts, which, unfortunately, cannot be said for the other side. Our country headed by the President of the Republic and then Foreign Minister Mr Dacic fulfilled a very important successful foreign-political activity since Kosovo's recognition, when 19 states withdrew their recognitions. I believe that the list and the number of states wouldn't stop at this, I'm actually convinced, and I know that it is, that we didn't respect the international provisions that we've committed to. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would firstly support the president and the government in the fight to preserve territorial integrity and sovereignty, above all, peace and stability in the region. I would ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia - is there a certain perception of our state in the direction of further activities in relation to the recognition of Kosovo by those states that have recognised it, having on the other side of Pristina's activities after the end of the signed agreement in Washington? The second question is more about the response of the International Community, given all the provocations that come from Pristina, the current developments, when we have more and more frequent attacks on Serbs and their property, which alone this year were more than 90 attacks on Serbian cultural, historical and religious heritage, the destruction of Orthodox churches and graves, can the government appeal, again, to the International Community, which would stand in the way of these further attacks and provocations of Pristina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9418	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9419	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, honourable citizens, we see two last issues concern at this time the most important topic, which is Kosovo and Metohija. That's what I'm gonna do. I request a notice from the BIA, the VOA and the MUP on the adverse impact of co-workers of the fake state of Kosovo, foreign-interest advocates. As deputy member of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, I have assured myself that our military-police security forces are making extraordinary efforts to protect Serbia's interest in Kosovo and Metohija. The question concerns – do the activities and statements of Gilas and Jeremic and their parties and the media, which concern KIM, i.e. support the governments of extremist Albin Kurti and himself, harm the preservation of KIM and the fight for a comprehensive Serbia, and are they undermining the efforts of military, police, security forces? By the way, Kurti is supported and praised by autoskillers, such as Gilas and Jeremic. I remind you that in recent years, Gilas and Jeremic have been highly praised by the villain Kurti. They loved him back in 2001 when he was illegally amnesty. They love him today when he's being praised. So it's astounding to celebrate the villain Kurti, with the great Z, and satanicize statesman Vukic, the great D in that statesman, who protects the Serbs at KIM and who protects the whole of Serbia. The yellow autoskillers are the parents of the fake state of Kosovo. Two of them are Gilas and Jeremic. We are currently in Serbia, at the moment we are struggling with Kurti's violence and extremism, we have a serious fifth column representing Kurti's power. They are fortunately far less than in the rest of Serbia. We remember Rasic, Jablanovic and the famous Rada from the Savawedding that has been pretending for five years to live on KIM. So these are Kurti's few private icaban Serbs, more specifically the arnauts. Here's an example. In 2019, April 23rd, Dragan Gilas said which of the Albanians, beware, sees as a reconciliation partner. I quote Gilas: "Of all of them, as the most principile, I love this Mr. Kurti, who for years advocates his views on the self-determination of Kosovo, which is why he has been in prison for many years," close to Gilas' quote. I mean, how is Gilasa not ashamed to praise Kurti and love him for being convicted of terrorism? I remind you, in March 2000, the District Court of Nis sentenced Aljbin Kurti to 15 years in prison for criminal acts of endangering territorial integrity and association for hostile acts in connection with acts of terrorism, and then against the law, Kurtija was amnested and released by various Murti and yellow DOS, SRJ, DS, Djindjic, Tadic, Jeremic and Djilas. One of the fathers of the fake state of Kosovo, Vuk Jeremic, praised Kurti on 10 December 2019 and said, quote Jeremic: "It cannot be disputed that Aljbin Kurti is an intellectual, patriot and quite stable man. So, all the opposite of Alexander Vukic," near Jeremic's quote. So, the shameful creator of the fake state of Kosovo, Jeremiah Vuk Brankovic, praises the villain Kurti, and satanizes Serbia's president, statesman Vukic. It's simple, a psychopath named Kurti as a stable man. You're an impertinent Jeremy. Look, this should not surprise us because Jeremic was a lobbyist of Albanians throughout his term from 2007 to 2012, how many foreign ministers he was. Jeremic was more Albanian, i.e. Kosovo Foreign Minister than Serbian, during that period. Jeremiah Vuk Brankovic again praised Kuti on 11 December 2020 and said "The new government in Pristina will have a new legitimacy and a stronger mandate. Some things with Kurti can become easier," the end of the quote. Look out, Jeremic said the new Kurti government would be a relief for Serbia, and in this year alone, I remind you, the number of attacks on Serbs has been decimated and reached almost 100. So much for Jeremic's predictions that things with Kurti will get easier. For the end, simply Serbia will not allow anyone at KIM to endanger Serbs. Serbia is now strong and will not be able to repeat evil like that of 2003, 2004 and 2008. It could simply have happened at the yellow junta, Tadic, Gilas and Jeremic. The villain Aljbin Kurti collects election points by doing evil to Serbs, and he does what he always does before the elections - reaching for violence against legal action, raises tensions, and victims are always Serbs. That's what Kurti does to show his voters how much he hates Serbs. Last sentence. Of course, the EU is looking for a free flow of people and goods, but the EU is mild to Kurti, completely mild. It is pathetic that in Serbia Kurti has the support of Gilasovac, Jeremics and their media and parties in Serbia. President Vukic protects Serbia and KIM, regains Serbia, raises Serbia, builds Serbia, vaccinates Serbia and heals Serbia, cures the past in the present for the future. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9420	Thank you. We continue the principled search on the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. We're continuing with a list of speakers. The next on the list is MP Lav-Grigorija Pajkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9421	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, Mr Popovic, we are facing today a proposal of crucial importance, not only for the spiritual and national consciousness of Serbs, but also for Serbia's cultural heritage even in a secular and general cultural sense. Not to refer to this in an adequate and highly professional way not only harm Serbs, not only to the state of Serbia, but to a total civilization, given that Mount Atos is the pride of all humanity. In addition to a tour of Cosmeta, Hilandar is Serbia's largest pilgrimage. Every foot, every inch, the property of this monastery is filled with history, and the tour of Hilandara is a large part of the mosaic that is the Serbian national consciousness. Again, in addition to the Serbian national work, library, architecture, art, as a hilandary singing, are placed at the very top of the world culture, and since King Aleksandar Obrenovic resolutely preserved Hilandar, planted the famous cypress on the Holy Mountain, each of the next generations of Serbs, except for going there, as I mentioned on the pilgrimage, tried to pass on the Serbian vow to the next generation and each generation respected it without exception. We don't vote here today for some ordinary bill. Today we commit that as long as there is a state of Serbia, it will all the time defend our world of SPC, just as it defended Serbs, our consciousness, our dedication for several centuries under brutal occupation repression. Hilandar is the post of the birthright of our most famous holy line of Nemanjic and Hilandar is a kind of metaphor for him, as well as KIM, can refer to that folk – as we will be in Kosovo tomorrow forever. What our relationship with Hilandar is, such is our relationship to the all-Serbian national consciousness, and by guarding Hilandar we also safeguard Serbian consciousness, we also preserve Gracanica and Decana, the Fortress and Krka and Mark's monastery and Kovilj and Ostrog and Savina and the Cetina monastery and all our sanctities. When we know what the value of everything I've been talking about, you will realize how far-reaching and national wisdom is, the state-run treatment of our great Serbian President, Alexander Vukic, who finds a way to make, in addition to this pandemic, the pressure on the Serbian Corps by neighbours and the destabilising that he wants to produce anti-Serbian politicians of the former regime, he still manages to worry, to deal with these key, crucial topics for Serbian consciousness and our national issue. When Serbia is strong, anything is possible. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9422	The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9423	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Kovac, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Popovic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, are talking about an important law at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, on the bill to preserve the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. The sacred monastery Hilandar, which was originally founded in 1198, represents a central monastic institution formed at the heart of the Serbian unity, spirituality, culture, history and tradition, and with the heritage of St. Gora Atonska, it is listed in UNESCO's World Cultural and Natural Heritage List. For the sake of preserving this entire material and immaterial good monastery Hilandar, the Republic of Serbia provides assistance and support through its competent authorities and institutions in order to preserve all these cultural, religious and historical heritage, reconstruct existing facilities or build even new facilities within the Holy monastery Hilandar, or preserve or restore the frescoes and iconograms of another archive building. Also, through its organs, Serbia will also assist the organisation, and I will participate in this organisation of various celebrations and significant dates that relate to the Holy monastery Hilandar. It will, of course, also be about raising awareness, of course through our education system on the Serbian cultural and historical tradition of heritage in the Holy Mountain of Aton, because we in Hilandar protect only Serbia. The government will also educate the Hilandar monastery committee in order to facilitate these tasks and, of course, budget funds will allocate money to preserve the St. Hilandar monastery, as well as the AP Vojvodina budget and, of course, local self-government budgets, but also from various donations. The significance of Hilandara is primarily seen in Serbian culture, not only Christian, but exclusively in Serbian, which implies more indigenous, architectural styles, such as Raski, Moravski, Vardarski, which is what the respected professor Atlagic spoke about yesterday. Certainly, this Serbian-Visant style exudes the entire architecture of the St. Hilandar monastery. All of them, to a lesser or greater extent, integrate these Latin and Byzantine elements, and the founders of the monastery of Stefan Nemanja and the Holy Sava were primarily world rulers. Of course, they and their opus, the sacral opus is very important, but they built primarily the Serbian state and Serbia is what is most important to us. The Serbian medieval state has progressed precisely because there was this synergy, or as many historians say – symphony with the church, a good relationship with the church, but above all, the preeminent science that was reflected in our architecture, construction, military science, strategy, agriculture, trade and, of course, mining, for which the Serbian medieval state has made so much progress. Thanks to this synergy of world and sacral, we have increased our borders and expanded Serbia's medieval state. Today, thanks to SNS and President Aleksandr Vukic, Serbia is progressing. He's making progress right now, because he's using those same principles. We have excellent co-operation, excellent relations with the church, but it invests in all spheres of society, in all of our society, and above all in science. It must be a priority in the future. Let's remember what happened in 2000 until 2012. You know, often historians know that they describe the Middle Ages as some dark age, they say – it's dark, the Middle Ages is a dark age. I believe that in Serbia the dark age came in 2000 and that this dark age ended in 2012 by the arrival of SNS to power. The yellow rulers of that time, these yellow ones, call the greats, they did all the opposite of our medieval rulers. For example, medieval rulers were clitors, building numerous monasteries, and yellow tycoon camels only one, I'll feel free to express myself, a gang of thieves. The churches remained behind medieval property, numerous castles, fortifications, and behind the yellow tycoons were exclusively chains and locks on factories. We must observe faith through the prism of Serbia. Serbia must be our leader's star. The "Serbia 2025" plan must be our ideology, the ideology of wealth, progress, success and reputation on the international agenda, ideology of hospitals, schools, kindergartens, factories, new jobs, quality health, roads and highways. Therefore, we must all give strong support here to our President, Alexander Vukic and the SNS, in order for our beloved Serbia to make further progress. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9424	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9425	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, today we have before us a bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. The adoption of this law will arrange a way to support and assist the Republic of Serbia, preserve the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. The Holy Imperial Serbian Lavra Hilandar is located on the Holy Mountain, the monastic community in northern Greece at the eastern end of the Halkidiki peninsula. The fourth is in the hierarchy of saintly monasteries and one of the most important spiritual and cultural centres of the Serbian people. It was founded on the ruins of the older monastery in 1198 by the monks of exceptional reputation, the great mayor Stefan Nemanja and his younger son Rustko, who created an independent medieval state and an auto-kefal holy church. Stefan Nemanja was baptized in Peter's church, in Novi Pazar and became a major mayor and settled in the village of Dejeva, then Ras where he built the monastery of Djurdje's pillars. From Deževa son of Savo goes to the Holy Mountain, and soon after him the father of the great Mayor of Nemania, who before that teaches power to his son Stefan the firstborn at Peter’s church in Novi Pazar, and the next day in that church is monastic and gets the monastic name Simeon. He raises Hilandar with Sava, and Hilandar's construction is funded by Nemanja's son, Serbian King Stefan the First of Race, today's New Market. The Hilandars had a great share in the development of Serbian literature and art. The Holy Imperial Serbian Lavra Hilandar is still an important place of pilgrimage and is the richest treasure and archive of the Serbian people's heritage. The fire of large scales that broke out in 2004 destroyed and damaged almost half of the monastery building, and immediately thereafter, a large number of activities for the restoration of Hilandar, which aims to ensure the sustainable development of the monastery, its economy, the conditions necessary for the life of the brotherhood, safeguarding the unique character and sanctity of the place itself. The government of the Republic of Serbia is the largest key donor of reconstruction. For the Hilandar reconstruction projects, 13 million 94,000 710 euros were allocated and around 80% of the burned-out facilities were restored today, and 360 million dinars for reconstruction were identified in the 2021 budget. The Hilandar monastery has an invaluable value for Serbia's historical heritage and is one of the most important centres of Serbian culture and spirituality. It preserves the richest collection of original ancient manuscripts, icons, frescoes, so it is now the most significant treasure of Serbian medieval culture in all. Since 1988, along with the other 19 holy monasteries, it has been located on the UNESCO World Heritage List as part of a medieval monument, united under the protected continent of the Holy Mountain. The aim of this law is to provide support and assistance to the Republic of Serbia to preserve the cultural and historical heritage of Hilandar, with permanent, certain and secure financial support from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, funding from the autonomous province's budget and local self-government units through donations can be provided for realisation, as well as from other sources. I call on all my fellow MPs to support the proposed law in the voting day, as the adoption of this law provides for and provides long-term and organised concerns of the Republic of Serbia for the great cultural heritage that the Hilandar monastery truly represents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9426	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Professor Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9427	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is a great honor for me to be able to participate in this debate and to support the law regarding the Hilandar monastery. After the adoption of the Act on the Conservation of Cyrillic and Letters and the Language of ours, this is a very significant law. It was normal before in the past that we had a similar law to protect both Hilandar and all our other cultural goods, but better ever than never. After all, one must also start with that, to take care of both the letter and the language and the cultural goods that we have around the world and throughout our country. After what our authorised representative Bata Jugovic said yesterday about this subject, I really couldn't say anything special and new without repeating myself. So once again, I will be glad that this law is passed and that Serbia as a real country continues this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9428	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Ackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9429	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, with an associate, yesterday, and today we listen to beautiful words about the beautiful monastery of the sacred Serbian laureate that has kept Serbia together for years, hundreds of years and other believers, and I would especially like to highlight the worldly believers, because I am not a Serb, and no one is to blame for that, but I am a follower of the ideas that Saint Sava drew, even in those times when Serbia was created and when Serbia existed something that is today. His desire that every believer of the worldly event, even once visited Hilandar, is a great challenge for me, and therefore I will propose something to this esteemed House. Yesterday, an MP, from the PUPS, started the story, but he didn't finish it. He did not specify, as I think we should specify it, which is that we, the MPs, from this home, decide that, as a great support and, as a human support, and above all, to go to Hilandar group and fulfill this basic and first vow, which Saint Sava left for us. By adopting this law, opportunities are being created for the Serbian state to help as much as possible, and as far as possible, this sacred imperial lion. She was helped by a lion without law and without other documents from the moment of her existence, and everyone tried to keep her and help her, as much as necessary. Let's just remember the move that King Alexander made. We remember now a move that has been made by another Alexander, who should surely be thanked, as well as Minister Popovic, who made a promise that we are discussing today and that we will certainly adopt today. Since much has been said, I don't want to take up time, thank you all, and I want to hear another nice word about this sacred Serbian larva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9430	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9431	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers, with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have a very important bill that will deal with even more intense and stronger preservation of the significant cultural and historical heritage of the Hilandar monastery. I don't want to repeat myself, because my fellow Members and fellow MPs were already yesterday, and today they said a lot, when it comes to the importance of the Hilandar monastery itself, and you, Mr. Minister, have visited him many times. We have had opportunities to track how much of this has been done, when it comes to the restoration of the building itself and how many states Serbia, in particular lately, has been detaching funds, not only to preserve the Hilandar monastery, but also to any other cultural and historical monument. We are indeed today in a period when Serbia has become a strong state, when it has a strong leader, President Alexander Vukic, who is leading a decisive policy that gives and how good results and in improving the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, living standards, strengthening our economy, and also what this law is talking about, and that is to preserve our cultural heritage. We really have a rich culture, a rich history, which we should be proud of and boast about. It's a very important and important brand for us to boast about in the world. I am also proud that unlike the period before 2012, the yellow Thai regime, which unfortunately did not appreciate what our ancestors were building, when it comes to Serbia, had already tried to tear it apart, sell it, fill their own pockets. In this game they came to a level of 619m euros, so they would now play to continue again, because apparently during the period when they were mass abused their public positions, to fill and brag about how they, to God's successful managers, businessmen or businessmen, whatever term they used, then comes the period when the people, by their will, are in the elections in 2012, on the conditions they set, and which are much worse and worse conditions for citizens to go to the elections in 2014, 2016, 2017 and 2020, and by which they will go out in the future, the people simply did not want them, stopped them from playing that game anymore. Now you'd like to play it again. Why? Well, it turns out they're not very successful and good managers. It turns out, however, that their companies don't do so well when they're not on state mangers, when they can't provide themselves with jobs, and they have a lot of employees. They boast of some of their vans, which are neither party at the end nor party, but are registered as some movements, some groups of citizens, because they don't have the legal minimum needed to register the parties, so they can actually go out on a political stage to fight. They don't go on a political stage to fight, to offer, because they don't have a political programme, they have no idea, they have no vision of how to improve Serbia, because their vision and their idea have already been seen. And what they're trying to sell to us now from their fog industry is actually a rerun of what's already been seen, and the only line they keep repeating is that -- we hate the Wolf, we have to take down the Wolf. I would ask them, "What happens when you do it, what happens next?" They say, "It doesn't matter." We'll make a deal. It is essential that they come up with a prey called Serbia, for some to the prey called the City of Belgrade, and for local sheriffs of a particular municipality. Well, it's never gonna work out, because first, Serbian citizens will not allow such thieves to return to the scene and continue their robbery until 2012, because Serbian citizens recognize workers, recognize real leaders, make fighters, and the real fighter is Aleksandar Vucic. The right and only right policy that has brought results that Serbia is progressing is its 20-25 policy and programme. In their time, no matter how many hospitals they built, they couldn't even turn what was built by then, and today we built three new hospitals in four months, we built a large number of factories, new jobs were opened, and as President Vukic likes to say – never in modern Serbian history has any of the leaders visited so many cities, he did so much to the citizens, as he did. I'm telling you, they can't, and if they came to power by some miracle, they wouldn't be able to do anything that's been built so far, if they did, if they did, they'd actually be back in September. When such truth comes into their eyes, as my esteemed colleague Nevena Đurić did, in front of a million audience, in a decent way, in one way that suits the right fighter, as President Vucic said - a person who showed that among young people there are those who are sincere patriots, who are fighters, who remind him of him from the younger days, then you get a warrant immediately for the bots who are loathing at the Twitter show, amounting to some comments. In fact, they were panicked, they were caught by fear, because they are aware that even young people can't cross anymore. And young people are aware of what is good for this country, what is good for the future of this country, and these are children, and never again in Serbia's modern history were children born. Because, thanks to President Vukic and his work and sacrifice, we created conditions for these children to be born in Serbia, to live and to stay in Serbia. They laugh when the name is given concrete research, on paper written work, but not plagiarized works, as his so-called doctors of science write, but institutes of reputation in the world who say young academics are returning to Serbia, to continue their work and life here and to form families. They laugh at it and say -- no, no, Serbia is actually the country whose biggest export capacity is young people. Well, in their day, it was. In their day, young people were going with their heads no matter what. When you add up all their statistics that claim that young people are leaving, doctors leave, so in two years no one would even live in the Republic of Serbia anymore. Now, it's that Gilasian mathematics, the statistics he's known for, for those of his 110% of respondents who wonder whether they support Vukic or not, then his overall opposition, plus she's some improper opposition and by his logic, mathematics, in fact he's the one who should come to power. Then when the negotiations with the strangers he called, because he complained that there was no one here to talk to, and when they put the truth to his face, that those scientific fictional desires could not be implemented, he got angry then and, of course, turned against them. Is that the kind of Serbia we want, which, in fact, if what we don't like and nobody does, we want to get angry right now, fight with others? Never again. This will also be confirmed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia in next year's elections in Belgrade, at national level and presidential elections, whatever elections they may be will always be Serbian citizens who decide what policy they want to lead Serbia, which person to lead Serbia. Believe me, there is no other person besides Alexander Vukic, and there is no other policy than that which he leads us to prosperity, who struggles so hard and tries to protect this cultural and historical heritage and that we are proud of these heritage and that young people are once again learning what it means to be a patriot and what it means to truly love Serbia. This very law that is before us today is proof of how much I love our Serbia and how much we respect and appreciate what our ancestors have done, and that we will save it for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9432	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9433	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister Popovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with counterpart Tomic that previous speakers have said quite enough about the importance of Hilandar and the importance of everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state have done in the past few years regarding the protection of the cultural and religious heritage of our people and, of course, how important it is not just for our survival, not only to remind ourselves of the past, that we respect it, but also for the future of our people and for all those young people who will remain, who will work and who will raise this country in the future, in the coming period. There seems to be nothing new in the Balkans since our country's independence, therefore, since the Berlin Congress in 1878. And then the advances led by Stojan Novakovic, taking into account that even then they were strategically thinking, given the numerous foreign and regional challenges that Alexander Vukic and our country have today, as the main focus of their policies, put the protection of their people through investing and investing in education, the protection of the church, keeping good relations in then, of course, the present Northern Macedonia, defending then the church from the Greeks, the KIM from Arnaut, the Turks, looking not only for the state to develop politically and economically, but also for education, knowledge and culture to be something that will define the toughness and strength of our people, our church that will determine our future, which of course we are living, and we view as responsible people as also to provide a stable, peaceful future for our generations. We have no problem with this so-called "brand range" anymore, since our country led by Alexander Vukic made one of the best business environments in Europe, that our country will record perhaps this year the largest economic growth in Europe, around 7%, that we no longer have unemployment problems, that no longer come to Serbia the companies that are opening up the plants that are looking for this so-called. intensive labour, and you, Minister Popovic, know very well. I think that you have done a very good combination of expressing the conservative and respecter of our traditional values with the importance of promoting and strengthening innovative policy, the innovation policy of new technologies, information technologies, given and credit for our country today being a good part of GDP and making it right out of this activity of innovation, new technologies, whose creators are young people. What is perhaps the biggest problem, what is the problem that President Vukic is almost daily thinking about and trying to solve it, is the issue of demographics, that's the question he asked a few years ago, and that's how we're going to be more? This is also the topic of this summit today in Budapest, where he is taking part alongside Prime Minister Orban, with Czech Prime Minister Babis, Janez Jansa, with former US Vice President Mike Pens, promoting exactly the strengthening of the country's demographic characteristics, the importance of demographicism as something that we need to pay attention to, and which is why this country not only in the future, but has to deal with right now, so that we don't get into trouble for the next few decades. How important strategic thinking is and how important this battle of Alexander Vukic for the protection of cultural, historical and religious heritage is, the challenges that our country faces, especially in terms of KIM, are. Against our country, since we live in the 21st century, there is a special kind of new special war. The Albanians at KIM no longer tear down churches, don't attack our monks and monasteries, but they have a new doctrine, they're trying to adopt them. They're trying to promote something and, through a very aggressive propaganda, show a part of the world that may not be interested, which has no time to be informed, which may not have much time to look at and analyze history, that everything that lies on KIM, starting with the monastery, from the High Decians, from everything that exists on KIM, represents the heart of our country, our spirit, our spiritual and every other development, which, of course, includes the Hilandar, are trying to show it as their own. We are facing a big fight on this foreign-political plan, simply to be proactive and to assure the international community at the bilateral level of the state in fact how dangerous this special type of war is and to assure them and to say that we no longer have a problem saying that all that is on KIM is a Christian Orthodox heritage belonging to Serbs, the Serbian people and the Serbian state. Why did we have the result, let's say, of mentioning a very sacred example, but an example that shows how much we have to fight, how much responsibility we have to be, how much nothing falls from the sky. Our struggle in UNESCO ended successfully when so-called Kosovo applied for UNESCO membership, which we had been campaigning for months before, sending materials, especially to those countries that recognized it. Independent Kosovo, that everything that is on KIM is in fact the property of the Serbian state, that is the heritage of the state of Serbia, of our people and, of course, of the Serbian Orthodox Church. That's why you have examples of a South Korean who, unfortunately, has admitted so-called Kosovo, did not vote for the so-called entry. Kosovo to UNESCO, because we are the country where more than 50% of Christians live, and far from us has shown that we are right and that so-called. Kosovo neither has the capacity nor deserves in any way to be part of UNESCO. I think that for the first time in the past few years since Vucic's prime minister, in fact, since 2014, we have led a clear, strategic policy that knows how much it means protecting cultural, historical and religious heritage which has helped us to protect our national and vital interests in many times before. I will remind my colleagues and our citizens that she has helped us a great deal in collaboration with the US administration, especially as he led President Trampa, who had a sensitivity to what happens to a Christian people in the 21st heart of Europe. What happened in 2004 and what's going on today. Of course, Europeans didn't care. I believe that long ago they are some kind of faith and compassion, sensitivity, and finally, the end of respect and the raising of what Europe is built on, these are Christian values, that compared to that, the supremacy has taken away naked politics, naked interests and naked red tape from the EU. It is shown that if you have one proactive policy, if you are fighting and if you are right, that people and if they don't know much about KIM, of course, about our country, or about this region can understand what it is and they can understand that we are fighting a very legitimate and determined fight, and that is exclusively for the just objectives of protecting our national and vital interests, protecting our people and protecting our religion. Of course, I say hello, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. Look only among the MPs, especially the SNS, you have a lot, and that's what's most important, young people who don't just sit here in parliament, don't talk about the protection of cultural heritage here in Belgrade from some warm cabinet, but go through the Republic of Croatia, BiH, Northern Macedonia, visit our churches, visit our monasteries. Here is colleague Sanja Lakic, I sometimes feel that she is somewhere else in Croatia in BiH, in the RS, in the Federation. This defends the interests of the state, Serbia's interests, the protection of cultural, historical, religious heritage. It is not only in central Serbia, but it is this dam and protection that must be done in Trebinj, Podgorica, Benkovac, Pakrac, wherever the Serb people live. I think that we have done, thanks to President Vukic, a very good foundation and something that will determine the future of our people in the coming period, which is that we have managed to sum up and establish unity between the Serbian Corps and the Serbian people, especially in the territory of the Western Balkans. I don't think anyone, while this yellow tycoon camel led this country to 2012. Who knows who Ivan Stoilkovic is? Who knew if there were Serbs in northern Macedonia? Who cares if Serbs are discriminated against in Montenegro, although there are over 30%? Who cared about the beatings of the monkry, the stories and what the sect of Miras Dedejic and Lava Lajovic took from the churches throughout Cetinje and all over Montenegro? If it hadn't been for Alexander Vukic, if it hadn't been for one clear support from the Republic of Serbia, I mean there was support for us to have the strength to say that our people were right, when they said that they had been suppressed and discriminated against, that they were right when they said that the SPC and Mitropolis of Montenegro-Primordial has rights, all rights, for 800 years in Montenegro. This was the best and most beautiful thing, which of course resulted in us being in fact today, that conditions were created in that same Montenegro, I hope in the coming period that the Serbian people live as the whole normal world, as any nation in the region and in Europe. I can only support the members and colleagues of the SNS this law and all that goes in favour of protecting the cultural and historical, religious heritage of our people, because in addition to economic development, in addition to creating a good business environment, creating conditions for a better standard of living for our citizens, it is the basis for our survival and for our better and more stable future. And for that vision, I think we should all be grateful to President Alexander Vukic and follow his policy in that domain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9434	Thank you, Professor Marinkovic. The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9435	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. I will briefly, given that this law is another indicator of the importance of everything Serbia does for its culture, for its heritage, for cultural heritage, above all for the Serbian people. What makes President Aleksandar Vukic exactly for all Serbs in the region, wherever they live, and above all what he does, that is, what is our historical heritage, what we bear as a vow, what we wear as a cross, what we bear as a promise to fight and preserve the identity of national sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. What we have promised as a promise to our people in Kosovo and Metohija, this is the kind of support and struggle for their interests that we are providing today and we will provide all of this time, which you see for yourself, is really for people in Kosovo and Metohija and how difficult it is at the moment, but they show that Serbia, first of all, President Aleksandar Vukic, is determined to stand by Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, you see whenever Serbia shows a new result, whenever Serbia dares to rise above all that it was until yesterday, ten years ago, I can freely say, decades ago, not so good a result that Serbia could never point out, such as the economy, such as health care, such as any other aspect of which you could look at and which today along with President Vukic and his advocate, the fight, are indeed priorities in the fight for a better standard for Serbian citizens. Today we can be proud of all the results. Today we can say that we are champions in the economy, that we are champions in the construction of infrastructure, in attracting more jobs, in opening factories. So, there is really no domain of the economy, no domain of any other area in the economy, health care where Serbia is not a leader, in which Serbia is really struggling to achieve results, not to be the first, not to be the best, not to compare ourselves with anyone, but to provide our citizens with a better standard of living, to provide our citizens with what we are in times of crisis, at the time of the coronary crisis of the virus, when the whole world fell to its knees, we were there to really and how we are standing firm in our heads and to say – we provided vaccines, we built hospitals, we did everything necessary for our citizens to ensure that indeed in the battle with the coronary virus, with this crisis that has caught the whole world, we do not suffer, economic, economic, health and above all to preserve the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think that, first and foremost, how visible, we can freely say that in Europe we are leaders, but at the very moments when we show the results, when we can stand firm and be proud of what kind of leader we have, who is fighting for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, then you know that when the strongest attacks come, first of all from the region, when you see that one Milanovic dares to say anything about having 122 titles in the paper, only in one day, in which all the worst is said in Croatian media about Alexander Vukic, you know that you are on the right track, you know that Alexander Vukic is absolutely fighting for the interests of Serbs, wherever they are, and especially for the interests of Serbs in Croatia. So, when you see a man who has managed to pardon all war criminals, give them back some medals and acts, then you know that there is absolutely no word of reconciliation and any peaceful policy, you already have only one envy, above all, when we talk about Milanovic in relation to President Vukic, who is not able to possibly think in the direction President Aleksandar Vukic is thinking, let alone deliver the results to his country. All that comes from the region, including Montenegro, anything that comes from other power centres and from outside Europe, says only in favour of Serbia's disincentives to some. And instead of being honest and saying all the best things, which is obvious, because when you talk about some exact data, especially in the economy, there's no place for farsi, there's no place for lying, there's no place for misrepresentation, the exact data is that. Serbia is progressing unconstitutionally, Serbia is developing, Serbia has received a blood stream back, a blood stream in terms of roads, blood vessels that have spread across Serbia. So we now have something to talk about and we really have something to be proud of, these are the results that are visible. You no longer have the presidents of states who go to other countries to apologize, but you have a president who goes everywhere in the region in the world, respects and fights exclusively for the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and anyone who is normal is honest and can only congratulate him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9436	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, am I still asking if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? Does he want someone who hasn't applied his right to the Rules of Procedure? Does the Minister want to speak to us? (Yes) The word has Dr Nenad Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9437	The Honorable chairman, respected MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the adoption of the Hilandar Law as a historic event for Serbia and the Serbian people. For the first time in history, Serbia through a special law provides financial resources for Hilandar. This means that the Hilandar monastery will each year receive funding from the budget to be used for the life and restoration of this sacred Serbian people. When that law is passed, it's a state decision and a policy that no one can change. I had the honor of being in a delegation with President Vukic when we visited Hilandar this year. After long talks with Igman Methodius and the brotherhood of the monastery, following liturgy, prayer, dining in the holy place, President Vukic made a historic decision to make Serbia a Law on Hilandar. Today, this promise is fulfilled, in parliament, and I know how happy the argument of Methodius and all the monks in the Hilandar monastery are, who have dedicated their lives to the preservation of this most important sacred, Serbian church and people, and it is particularly symbolic in this, because today is the third day of Little Our Lady, the festival of the birth of the Holy Mother, of the Priory, the igumania manifested by Hilandar. I want to thank all of you MPs for their excellent discussion and presentations. I've been a MP for a long time, and I've been a minister for five years, and I can really say that this is the most beautiful session I've ever participated in. It's been a pleasure listening to you and learning a lot from all of you. I thank Iguman Methodia and the brotherhood of Hilandar, the Ministry of Culture and Ministers Maja Gojkovic, the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic Secretariat for Law and his boss, Mr. Djurdjevic and his team, who helped us formulate this law, the Members of the People's Parliament, the Hilandar Manastre and Director Milivoj Randzic, with all advisers and associates and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have given undivided support to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have undivided support for the adoption of this very important law. We also owe gratitude to the Greek state, which has so far provided huge assistance in preserving and functioning the Hilandar monastery daily, and of course, I would especially like to thank President Vukic, who was the initiator of the adoption of this law. Finally, I would especially like to emphasise the role of our Patriarch His Holiness, Mr. Porphyri, after whose blessing we set out to implement this law. Holy Vladika Nikolaj Velimirovich said - Saint Gora is a kingdom without crown, a state without army, a country without women, a wealth without money, a wisdom without school, a kitchen without meat, a prayer without stop, a connection with heaven without interruption, a glorious Christ without fatigue, a death without regret. We are free to say as well as Kosovo is the heart of Serbia, so Hilandar is the soul of the sanctification and of the Serbian people. A place that reminds every Serb that we have become a nation and state, a sanctuary that gave our nation comfort and strength, in the most difficult times of death. The Hilandar monastery is a symbol of our people's national and spiritual unity. It is a symbol of the union of the Serbian state, the church and the people. Hilandara's very history is a symbol of the unity of the state-owned and spiritual values of the Serbian people, because they are the founders of Hilandara, Stefan Nemanja, the founder of the Serbian state and the Holy Sava, the founder of an independent Serbian church. Serbia, as today, was the most powerful when the state and church were in harmony and supported each other. For the activities of completing the burnt-out work, the monasteries in the period from 2021 to the next two years, until 2023, were secured by President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia's budget of 80m dinars, as well as funds from the budget reserve, amounting to 280m dinars. The projected activities for this next period are the restoration of the southwest side of the monastery's fortification, the remaining work on the dochi, the remaining works on the igumenariatry. The total funds provided for the reconstruction of doha and igumenaria are 357,490 thousand dinars. The project is under way to strengthen the outer wall of the wall of the entire length of it from Dohia through Igumenaria to the dining room. Three million dinars were allocated to the implementation of the project from the Republika Srpska budget and 24,200,000 dinars from the budget reserve. 5,800,000 dinars have been allocated for the completion of works in the basement of the Great Crescents. 8,000,000 dinars have been provided for the construction of port installations from budget reserve funds. The reconstruction and expansion of the capacities of the present treasurery is planned, as is the organization of the treasurery, libraries and archives. Also planned is a continuation of the protection of the movable and immovable heritage of the main monastery church. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure today to show the highest degree of responsibility for the need to preserve our most valuable spiritual, cultural and historical treasures in our Holy monastery Hilandar. As of today, when we adopt this law, it will no longer be possible to miss this important topic of the case, nor will it become a place for any free interpretations or ideological and political fluctuations that could make the state in the future deny the support of the Hilandar monastery. As of today, the country's relationship to this issue will never be able to change. In the end, I want to point out the importance of the moment in which we pass this law. The Hilandar is a symbol of our continuity, the strength of our national and spiritual unity, and it seems that at this moment, our national and spiritual unity is most needed when we face pressures around Kosovo, Republika Srpska, when our church is being attacked in Montenegro. Exactly, the adoption of this law shows the strength of our country, but its continuity with interruptions lasts more than 800 years, as old as Hilandar himself is. The passing of this law sends a strong message to the future, that without the preservation of spiritual and national identity and statehood there is no survival of our nation. That the Lord and the Holy Mother guard Hilandar and Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9438	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am now setting a break by 15.00 hours, when we will gather to vote. Thank you, everyone who participated in today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-23-0.u9439	Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure, I order Thursday, September 23rd, 2021, starting at 15.05pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. In accordance with Article 88(5) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 88(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 176 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Point 1 of the agenda — Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CODE OF THE BEHIND OF THE NATIONAL MEMBER STATES. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the Proposal for a Decision and since amendments have been submitted to the proposal, it is appropriate to Article 160. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will decide first on the draft decision in principle, on the tabled amendment, on the early entry into force of the decision and on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision adopting the Code of Conduct of Members of the People's Parliaments, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: total – 181 for – 177 did not vote – four MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the motion for a decision, in principle. Before moving to a decision on the amendment, I remind you that an integral part of the proposal for a decision has become the amendments of MP Dejan Kesar to Articles 1 and 5. I also remind you that MP Gjorge Komlenski has withdrawn amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. It's a motion for a decision. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. At the title of the proposal for a decision, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote: a total of -180, for – four, against – one, did not vote – 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. I remind you it's point 2. The draft decision provides for this decision to take effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: total – 180, for – 178, did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the decision within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on the amendment and on the early entry into force of the decision, we approach the vote on a proposal for a decision in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision adopting the Code of Conduct of Members of the People's Parliaments, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: total – 180, for – 178, did not vote – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision adopting the Code of Conduct of the Members of the People's Parliaments. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle, and since MP Vladan Glisic withdrew the amendment to article 50 and the title above article 50 and MP Djordje Komlenski to Article 1. The draft law, the National Assembly, will, according to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: total – 180, for – 179, did not vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a bill on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Conservation of Cultural and Historical Heritage of the Holy Manaste HILLANDAR. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am concluding the vote: total – 180, for – 180 Members of the People. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since we are done voting, I would just like to inform you that next week we will not have a meeting of the Assembly not because we do not want to, but because we have nothing to put on the agenda and, accordingly, I will schedule the next session, that is, the beginning of a regular session, unfortunately, on a date that I do not particularly like, October 5th. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the agenda points of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the fourteenth extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Thank you.
