ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7687	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 190 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that 211 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Marija Obradovic and Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, Dr Petar Petkovic. Dear People's MPs are with us from Kosovo and Metohija the Serbian List Presidency, MPs of the Interim Self-Government in Pristina, mayors of temporary self-government in Pristina, president of the Interim Authorities, heads of administrative districts, heads of state institutions, directors of public enterprises and health institutions and managers of the most significant businesses. Also with us is the Director of the Office for Co-ordination Affairs Miloje Zdravkovic, as well as the closest associates of the Directors of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. Ladies and gentlemen, considering, I remind you, on this day 23 years ago, the kidnappers -- the faces of Serbian nationality from the Belacevic surface spears, whose fate has not been resolved today. I would also like to welcome representatives of the Association of Kidnapped, Missing and Killed from the space of Kosovo and Metohija, who also attend the sessions. Dear ladies and gentlemen for the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, I have determined the following Dn e n i d: 1. Report on the work of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, submitted by the Government, 2. A report on the negotiation process with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina from May 2019 to 15 June 2021, which was submitted by the government. National MP Ivica Dacic, president of the National Assembly, pursuant to Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 192, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint single search be carried out on these two reports, i.e. on these items of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -222, for – 207, did not vote – 13. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a joint single search. I call on the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic to address the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7688	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, dear our sisters and brothers from Kosovo and Metohija. Today, respected citizens of Serbia, today is not an easy task for us and it is not the time for a ceremony mood and it is not the time for too many expectations or expectations that are not in line with the reality that surrounds us. I want to thank everyone who shares awareness of the importance of the Kosovo and Metohija issues for Serbia and our people in general. It is, as you know, a question that is in the subtext of almost every political issue and every one of our governmental efforts, but also much deeper, essential, identity, cultural, economic and any other issue. The way our generation solves it depends on the future of our children and our country. Those who think that by delaying, buying time, even though we did it much less on the other side, we had to do it sometimes, we didn't solve the problem. We will have to continue to solve it responsibly, in a rational and thoughtful way, with a strategic view of the future and awareness of what kind of Serbia we want to leave to our descendants. This is not only our debt to the current and future citizens of Serbia, but to every member of our people in the country and dissipation. Two years ago, I came to you from this place with devastating demographic data about how Serbs from the dominant people in Kosovo and Metohija in the Middle Ages came to 11% in 1991, followed by the last major exodus of Serbs, especially after the arrival of international forces. According to our data we did, and we did it in a very professional way and several of our people, because they belonged to the Red Cross, were arrested by the Pristina authorities, where we also made the most accurate and precise calculations and with members of the Albanian people in Kosovo and Metohija. I want you to know that Serbs living in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija at this point is no more than 95,000, Albanians are certainly no more than 1,350,000 regardless of all the lies you can hear from each other. We are always exaggerating on the number of our countrymen and Albanians particularly in the number of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. I told you this because there are a few things that matter. After World War II, we had between 26, 21 and 23% of the census in 1961, 1971, but the average was about 23% of Serbian living in Kosovo and Metohija. With Montenegrins, with those who pleaded as Montenegrins, Yugoslavs, it was almost 30% of our lives. Today in Kosovo and Metohija, what all of our friends, our brothers and sisters here at the gallery, are aware of is the ratio of 1:15 Serbs to Albanians. Of course, it speaks enough about the gravity of the situation facing not only our people in Kosovo and Metohija, but our country as well. I would say that these problems and the causes of all these problems have failed in the meantime to heal in any way. I'll talk about everything we've done and what we've done, and we've done a lot of things that we can be proud of, both in a symbolic and essential sense. I'll give you one key piece of information. We averaged about 500m euros for our people in Kosovo and Metohija annually. In 2020, and especially in 2021, we will end up with more than 750, even 800 million given to our people in Kosovo. There's a lot more money, but the question is -- have we been able to change the trends that are bad for us? Albanians move out of Kosovo, go across Europe to the United States, but also the Serbs move out. And I wouldn't say that it's just because of the pressures that they are exposed to, because of the attacks on them, on their children, on our churches and monasteries, on our people's daily chicanisation, our children, who attend primary, secondary schools, but I would say, above all, because, regardless of what privileged position we have given our people in Kosovo and Metohija and significantly increased incomes for teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, but also for doctors, nurses, staff, the famous "Kosovo supplement" that people in central Serbia should know that they receive 50% more than they receive from central Serbia, from their country, from Serbia. We haven't been able to change that trend. Less drain than it was in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2010, but still people looking for a better life go the way of Kragujevac, Kraljevci, Kruševac, Smedereva, Belgrade and all other cities in central Serbia, expecting a better life, more security for themselves and for their children. The question is, do we have the right to blame them? We all came from somewhere. And those who were born in Belgrade, we were born because our parents came from somewhere, those whose parents were born, their parents came from somewhere, clawing and looking for a better life. What else can we do to provide them with a better life? That's what one essential answer is about, which I know most MPs can hardly agree with, and I'm going to repeat what I said two years ago, which is that we don't need a frozen conflict. Because what we say is "frozen conflict" and what is nice to us in Belgrade, while we sit in cafes and restaurants, our people in Gracanica, the Sirinić parish, our people in enclaves in Klina, East, Peća, Gorazdevac, Orahovac, Velika Hota, is not up to it. And they don't live the way we live here. They live incomparably difficult. And that's why they always want the negotiations to exist, that the talks exist, so that we can ever come to a compromise solution in the future. Because if we don't come to a compromise solution, we're going to get into a situation where someone freezes that conflict, and if someone freezes that conflict, it's not just a question of what we're going to discuss later, and I'm sure in the answers to your questions, we're talking about. It's not a question of who's got more guns, who's stronger, it's a question -- and who's got the right to bring someone's children back in coffins, who wants it and who doesn't want it? Or at least to do everything possible to avoid such a situation. What I hear every day here in Belgrade is -- just that time passes, we get stronger, they get weaker. Economic - it's true, it's political - it's a question. First of all, because of the fact that the Western powers of their opinion and their judgment, their position on Kosovo and Metohija will not change. Whatever happens, they won't change their judgment and their attitude. They will stay and stand for an independent Kosovo or, from our point of view, for the secession of Kosovo from the Republic of Serbia at all costs. The question is what is it that we can do before I give you some information about everything that we have done as a state for our people in Kosovo and Metohija. So do we have the right to arrogant, arrogant and ossion approach in talks and negotiations with Pristina? They think they have it, I'll give you a detailed description of our last encounters, I don't think we have it. And I resented myself for at one point, listening to the worst insults at the expense of the Serbian state and at the expense of the people of the Serbian state system, with nothing backed up, reacting violently and returning unnecessary insults to the other side. I'm a living man, and sometimes you react emotionally, and you just can't take three hours to listen to nonsense, but literally nonsense, untrue, disrespect for everything that's agreed on, disrespect for the facts, disrespect for what they've even signed and accepted themselves. In Kosovo and Metohija in the previous reporting period since May 2019, and soon to return to the key topic, 1,467 housing units have been built and constructed, built and reconstructed 99 houses and 566 apartments within 42 buildings and supplied assistance in construction material for 802 households. In 2021 alone, despite the pandemic of the virus's corona, we are building 17 new buildings with a total of 202 apartments intended for young married couples with more children, socially endangered families and internally displaced persons. In the reporting period, we end the construction of the return settlement "Suncan Valley", a beautiful settlement with which we have had many problems, both with Albanian and so on. International authorities, in Mali Zvečan, will have the resources of nearly two billion dinars, and the total amount is three and a half billion dinars from 2015 to 2021, where living and working conditions will be provided between 1,200 and 1,500 persons, therefore, for about 350 to 400 families, through the construction of traffic infrastructure facilities, 135 residential buildings with a total of 355 residential units and accompanying public facilities, schools, churches, markets, homes of culture, sports fields and kindergartens. A regional water pipeline linking Zubin Potok, Zvečan and Mitrovica has been completed. The value of this investment is a billion and 564 million dinars. The implementation of projects for the resolution of a complete secondary water network on the territory of Zubin Potok and Zvečan municipalities has been financed. In the final phase, works on the construction of the "Rajska Banja" health-recreative complex in Banjska, which has so far invested as many as 828 million dinars. By the end of the reporting period, complete construction and craft work on open swimming pools, wellness and spa centre with thermal and recreational swimming pools was completed, a new four-storey hotel was built, a main access street with lighting, lighting of the square, as well as a panoramic staircase towards the monastery, and the completion of works on the arrangement of Banjska settlement with the spa "Rajska Banja". Within the clinical-patient complex, Kosovo Mitrovica built and equipped a PCR testing laboratory for the presence of a 12 million dinar crown, a surface of 118m square, equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Three primary schools in Leposavic were renovated, adapted and reconstructed, and a home was built for the Agricultural School in Leška, with a total of 237 million 193 thousand dinars, in the phase of the parthetic arrangement. We have shown special concern for our people in Kosovo and Metohija through the budget rebalancing that we have identified four billion additional dinars for capital projects and one-time financial assistance for our people in Kosovo and Metohija, for all of our people and especially for those who live the hardest, for the unemployed, where we have defined 200 euros per capita, which is again more help than for all other citizens of central Serbia. With rebalancing money, we will finance the construction of a children's kindergarten in Gorazdevec amounting to 36, 750 million dinars, as well as kindergartens in Novi Badovac amounting to 28,500 dinars. From major projects, I will single out the start of the construction of the Pristina Clinical Hospital Centre in Gracanica of sixm euros. For those who do not know, KBC was moved from Pristina to Gracanica after 1999 and has been operating since then in a temporary space adapted for the purpose of providing medical services for more than 60,000 people gravitating towards this health facility. Capital recovery, reconstruction, construction and construction of new facilities The Clinical Hospital Centre in Kosovo Mitrovica, 20,000 square meters with 559 available hospital beds, which will make this centre one of the most modern, and for these works, Serbia has singled out a billion and 250 million dinars. We started the first preparatory phase of works on the construction of the University of Pristina with a temporary headquarters in Kosovo, Mitrovica. The building was designed for accommodation of the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics, Faculty of Economics and Law with all accompanying facilities through the underground area and four floors of total gross area 10,570 square meters. In 2021, funds were realised for the destruction of existing facilities with the clearing of the site for the construction of the university building, and after that we enter the second phase of construction, we have been waiting for more than 20 years for this building and will be proud of everyone, the new city center, a new development project and we will invest 792 million dinars. A restructuring and flood prevention project will be implemented covering the rehabilitation of housing and infrastructure facilities after floods on AP territory, as well as flood prevention through the regulation of river flows for which we provided 250 million dinars. We will soon pay 150 households with 1,000 euros each whose houses have been flooded. Our response to the coronary pandemic of the virus in both Kosovo and Metohija was timely. We immediately provided for our people all vaccines that were available in central Serbia and the same day as in central Serbia, when we started to vaccinate our people from the southern province here in Belgrade. So far, 25,500 people from the Serb environments in Kosovo and Metohija have been vaccinated, while the second dose received more than 22,600 of our citizens, 67% of whom over 60 received a second dose of the vaccine. Vaccination is also organized on three points in Raška, Kursumlija and Bujanovac with free transport that we organized for all interested. That's what we had to do, to understand, just because the Pristina authorities, despite the fact that we were giving the people vaccines, not guns and tanks, persecute doctors, persecute medical personnel, go with the arrest of people in Leposavic, that we had to literally store vaccines, keep them safe, transfer the refrigerators so they wouldn't be kidnapped even though we offered Pristina vaccine authorities that they could vaccinate Albanians. It is our joint success, there will be fewer Serbs and Albanians, and I would not share sick or infected people by nationality. They shared them, and that is why we had to move the vaccination process into surrounding municipalities from central Serbia after the start of the vaccination in Kosovo and Metohija. We have also provided every man from Kosovo and Metohija, in addition to this 100 plus 200-euro support, to apply additionally for the aid of 3,000 if it was vaccinated by May 1st. All our pensioners from Kosovo and Metohija also received aid packages that we shared in central Serbia. What is very important is our Serbian national identity and SPC in Kosovo and Metohija. During the report period, 246 cultural events were financially supported and capital investments were realised in several cultural homes. Projects related to the work and survival of 37 monasteries and churches of the Serbian Church in Kosovo and Metohija have been financed, as well as the smooth functioning of folk cuisines. The total amount invested in the projects is 248 million dinars. When it comes to eparchy of Raško-Prizrenska and Kosovo-Metochy, I will give you the most important data by locations. The Gracanica monastery - in part, we financed the construction of new boiler rooms and pelet storage facilities, the construction works to increase the energy efficiency of the monastery building, the single aid in the award of the Order "Majko Južović", the construction of furniture for the library of the monastic guest room at the end of the monastery, the installation of a telecommunications system on the monastery complex and the construction of an auxiliary facility. It is also funded to build a warehouse in a monastery complex, build a vault in a monastery, build an auxiliary economic building, build a fence wall in a monastery complex. The funds are 72 million 529 thousand 674 dinars. High-ranking Decans who are particularly hit by those who do not want the presence of the Serbian church in Kosovo and Metohija because to make you understand, a small number of people do so here in Belgrade. So Albanians don't respect their own judgments either. Let's not respect the Brussels Agreement, what they signed themselves, what the Europeans signed, but they don't respect what their court decisions are. So, what their quasi states, courts, have made decisions, neither respect nor will they implement in the work of an executive verdict concerning the country in and around the monastery of the High Decani and the Righteousness and everything else, and you can certainly hear threats from the very extreme limits of political parties from the Decans themselves, but also from Pristina and all other parts of Kosovo and Metohija. Here we have provided financial funds for the replacement of existing coal boilers, pellet boilers, the performance of works on machine electric power plants, 19 million 399 thousand dinars have been invested, which is not small, but we will invest much more, and I am grateful to those wonderful monks from the High Decan who guard, not only the torch of freedom, but who keep the roots of the Serbs where it is with the Pecko Patriarchy and the Mother Leješko, today the hardest. St. George's monastery in Brnjak provided financial resources for the construction of summer cuisine, an installation of a residential building, as well as the acquisition of aggregates for the needs of monasterys and the purchase of furniture for sister's ropes. Theology of Kiril and Methodius, the Pećko Patriarchy and not reading what we have helped you, in the Pecko Patriarchy 35 million 837 thousand, it seems to me that Banjska can be very pleased with our support, 17 million 387 thousand monastery Devič, temple of the conversion of the Lord in Pasjan, the monastery of Budisaci, the restoration of the Church of the Virgin Mary of Ljeviška in Pristina. So, together with the Ministry of Culture and the Institute for the Protection of Monuments, we've singled out 60 million for these purposes. A spiritual academy in Kosovo Mitrovica, separated 68 million dinars. What is important to us, it is an increase in the safety of our children in Kosovo and Metohija. We have installed video surveillance and cameras in every kindergarten and elementary school in the territory of the southern Serbian province, given the frequent attacks that took place right in the schoolyards. Modern medical equipment has been installed and five sanitary vehicles have been purchased so that our health institutions in Kosovo and Metohija will not be deprived of health centres in central Serbia. We were able to secure new jobs for 90 doctors and 234 nurses. In addition to the established stimulative measures of the Serbian state to help families with two and more children, through the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, we have added tens of thousands of dinars to each newborn child in Serbian environments in the province, and we have paid for 2249 babies since 2019 to help 22 million 490 thousand dinars. What will be my request is that not only in Kosovo and Metohija but in at least eight poorer districts of central Serbia, first of all, we go with the added measures of the most innovative policy, because it has shown us that when we took these measures, the best results are shown to us in the poorest environments. You can see as much as you want to increase this amount in Vracara, the Old Town, and New Belgrade, you will not see more serious results, but in the Serbian environments in Kosovo and Metohija, in Toplica, in Pcinjska, Jablaničko, Pirotski, Nisavska County, so, to be honest, the work of the Zlatibor County, the Raška District, Timočki and Borski County, you always see the results. That is why my request to the government will be to significantly increase funds for newborn children, to encourage poor families who want to have children, who want to have children, who want to raise children, to help them have enough financial resources, so that they can enjoy their children and that those children have a future in their hearths, where they are born. This year, we provided 750 million dinars for the development of agriculture and economy in Kosovo and Metohija, given the fact that almost 70% of our lives as first or secondary activities, and especially those in the rural area have agriculture. We provide special assistance for the purchase of machinery, seed and fruit materials, the purchase of cattle throats and livestock, the raising of farming cooperatives, as well as support for the purchase and cultivation of different types of agricultural cultures, from vineyards, raspberries, to the cultivation of vegetables in plastics. We are also trying to take care of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially family companies and the development of women's entrepreneurship, because we care about ensuring the sustainable survival and survival of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. We helped a total of 1,600 hundred agricultural households. I don't have to tell you that we have problems especially south of Ibra, where part of the people, sees that he doesn't report his holdings, and that, in order to take some of the funds from the Pristina administration, and from us in other ways and others for a certain subsidy. This problem is particularly expressed in the Metohian villages, but we are also working on making promises and providing significantly greater support to our people, so that they do not have any dilemma and that they do not have to think about how to take on both sides of the money without fully doing business and in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. As far as dialogue with Pristina is concerned, which I think is as transparent as it can be. All our agreements have been published on the web site of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, and I'm simply saying it because of countless lies, I dare say, lies that we hear every day, that someone is hiding something, that somewhere someone is trying to deceive the public, so people can read every act, every document in which the state of Serbia, its institutions and its organs participated. I'm saying this because it's not a question of political opponents, we respect political rivals and political opponents, but in modern times where there's been a complete change of social paradigm, a media paradigm, in which it doesn't matter whether you're telling the truth anymore, whether you're respectable, whether you're responsible or serious or not, it's important that you collect as many likes as possible, on any social network, which you usually collect on the most extreme and irresponsible attitudes. When you have the most inexorable and irresponsible attitude, then mostly with lies, falses and counterfeits you try to attract attention and show that you are someone who belongs to his reputation to society, in which he could share his manipulations, frustrations with everyone else. That's why we've been listening for days about how the government's been hiding something from Brussels to Washington, like it's some vast materials, we have extensive materials, we've taken three chairs because they're all our implementing agreements, which we're willing to explain to you today if you have a question and everything else. But the basic agreements could have every kid in first grade read it and memorized it within an hour or two. You can imagine the responsibility of political actors in our country and in some other countries that are unable to read two sheets of paper in eight or nine years. Eight-and-a-half years, as long as it's been since the Brussels Agreement and that they still have their conspiracy theories of meaningless theories that they continue to insist on. Our country's position is such that dialogue is the only possible framework for resolving issues with Pristina. We have repeatedly suggested to EU representatives that Belgrade is so far, since you are able to listen to both of us being the same as some international officials, but you hear that in the local public as well. We're not the same. We have almost everything, and from the basic agreement we have fulfilled everything. There are further details of the implementation agreements, which we are ready to meet, but these are indeed details, and what is fundamental, which is the core, the six of the 15 points of the Brussels Agreement, Albanians are not ready to accept. And what I'm trying to tell you is that they're saying it unequivocally today. They've never said that before. At the last meeting in the presence of the EU High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security, Djozep Borelj and Miroslav Lajcak, a man responsible for dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, Albanians, i.e. their representatives Kurti and Bislim, have repeatedly reiterated that they are not interested in the fact that some previous government in Pristina has signed because they were all illegal and illegal governments, and the only legitimate, only thing that happens in Kosovo and what happens after February 14th. I must admit, I thought I knew everything about our talks and negotiations because I was a man who had more talks and negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija than all Serbian, Albanian and international representatives combined. So, all together when you gathered them didn't have, they had just as many conversations as I did, because I was on every one. I thought I knew everything, that I knew every detail, and suddenly February 14th in my head, what's February 14th? I ask Nicola who was with me what's the 14th of February, what's the 14th of February, St. Trifun? St. Valentine's Day for Catholics, I don't understand what's February 14th? Then we learned that February 14th is actually the most important day in mankind's history and I'm not exaggerating at all, because it's been repeated 20 times. You think I'm kidding or making fun of someone now? No, I don't. He told us on February 14th that the people that the Republic of Kosovo, made the decisive decision is the most important decision for its future, which is that Albin Kurti takes over the government with 50.25% of the vote and since then everything has changed. Everything that was until then is worth nothing, everything they have signed they will not sign and they want to negotiate in a different way, and that is that we have to recognise and accept the fact that they are the Republic of Kosovo, and unless we want to accept it immediately that dialogue is pointless. I have worked really hard to say in a decent way at all times that we have countless topics, from security, energy issues, the subject of free flow of people's capital goods, services, to conversations even if it takes conflicting opinions about things from the past, if they already insist so much on the past, missing persons. No, the only topic was – when you will recognise Kosovo's independence, that is, what is a gift to Serbia from us, that is that we too will recognise Serbia. I, Nikola is my witness, I've been listening very carefully for a few minutes, then I guess because I was calm and unresponsive, Mr. Kurti turned to me five times – when, when, when, when, and that's the only question – when? Then I told him really calmly and in an absolutely calm tone – never. And when I said that never, he... The situation is, ladies and gentlemen, much more difficult and serious for us and for them, from his too easy "when", to my easy "never" and your emotional reaction. [[Applause]] But I said that, because it's impossible to answer any other provocations, and I don't think it's possible to make a different solution. But that's why a compromise solution is something we should be looking for. At that point, you realize you're not talking about anything anymore. Somehow they managed to get us back, the Borells and the others, to the missing persons. Yes, before that, we had a dialogue on Serb municipalities' communities. Whatever you said, out of all the rules, the thumb sant servanda, to the fact that everything decided could not change, signed by the three sides of the signatories and had to be fulfilled in order to have confidence in the continuation of the process, was his answer that the constitutional court of Kosovo refused to do so and that he was not interested, and then, to God, he took advantage of that flora famously, as many of us also use on the political scene on other issues, saying a sentence that reads – after all, we want multiethnic Kosovo, and we will not divide society into ethnic groups. You know, that's what those who, by ethnic principle, asked you to secede from the Republic of Serbia, who carried out a violent secession, all along NATO bombs, against the Republic of Serbia and asked them to build a state in the territory of sovereign and internationally legally recognised states. Now you are told that in fact they are not for ethnic rights and the creation of any autonomous areas in Kosovo and Metohija, and then they came up with a brilliant proposal that I will admit more, I did not support being very unpleasant. He said -- here, we have a proposal, we came up with a constructive proposal in Brussels, and then you realize how dangerous people you're dealing with. Understand that you are no longer sure what can happen to Serbian children in Kosovo and Metohija and you understand all the weight of our situation. He says -- here, Serbia has the advice of national minorities, and here we will give national minority advice for Serbs, and there is no problem, to finish everything and sign mutual recognition and it is over. These people do not understand that the only disputed territory, the only thing that is discussed and negotiated is Kosovo and Metohija's territory. That's what the High Representative of Borelja told him - you can't discuss the rights of national minorities of a sovereign and independent state like the Republic of Serbia, and then he said - well we did, and I say - well, otherwise you wouldn't be here to talk to me. The point is that these people are so far from reality, just as much as when I listen to some of our people talking about Kosovo and Metohija and not thinking about how many Albanians live in Kosovo and Metohija, never taking into account the real situation, drilling into the chest every day, and if someone told them to go, not to fight and fight for Kosovo and Metohija, but to live for seven days, say in Kacanik, don't go anywhere else, Kacanik, there's an administrative line with central Serbia, no one would ever accept, but that's why in cafes and cafes we're able to say everything, so they do, and then you realize that you're dealing with people who are very irresponsible, who are very irresponsible and who can threaten peace and stability in the region. When I tell you about peace and stability in the region, because people think it's a floscule, because they think it's irrelevant, you think that having the largest growth not in the region, but probably across Europe, that it's possible and that we don't have peace and stability? You think even one investor in Germany, America, China, France, Italy will come to our country without guaranteeing him a profit, a good and safe job in the years ahead? He won't do any of them. We have almost a billion foreign direct investment in the first five months. I hope, tomorrow's a big day again, just a little crackdown, if there's one good decision, we're going to cheer people up again in Valjev, and that's how we solved all the problems with Valjev, but I'm telling you this because without it, without peace and stability, we're going to be back at the bottom of Europe instead of being at the top. We managed to change the entire paradigm of our policy. From the losers, from the defeated, from those who were on the European tail, we have come to the fact that we are the most resentful, individual, not all of them, by speaking out loud about Serbia's successes and by doing so, we are humiliating those who have less success than the Republic of Serbia. You can't talk, imagine, about your economic successes, which Eurostat confirms, because Serbia as a couple must be used to that place. Serbia can win basketball, sometimes volleyball and water polo, and this second Serbia cannot win. Serbia must be the one to beg for mercy and Serbia must be the one to thank us for the thousand, two, five and 200 thousand euros we will donate and give charity whenever we wish. Serbia doesn't need it today. Serbia, you want to help us - thank you, but we don't need any help either. Serbia itself creates money that makes me progress faster than any other European country, but the basic condition is that we also keep peace with Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, to safeguard the safety and security of our people in Kosovo and Metohija, because of this bar drill in Belgrade will not have much luck for our people in Lower Budriga, or in Klokot, where their neighbours are not only Serbs, but also Albanians and they must pass... Just go to the Syrian parish and see where our people have to go when they go to Strpce. Maybe 1% of you went through there, so let me tell you that you have to go through the underpasses or under the overpass, however you want, on which the KLAs were the largest on the globe. The graphs are written both against our people and on their heroism and on our criminal endeavors and on everything else. Well, just let your kid come through three times, and then I'll ask those heroes from the Belgrade cafes what to do and why they're not going to help our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Which never means, when I tell you all of this, that there is not enough energy in us, enough fighting, enough passion and strength to protect Kosovo and Metohija, to protect our people's interests. I just want to tell you that things are a lot more complicated than the way we represent them, because they're not things -- you want to admit, you won't admit. No and we won't, but we have a million things that we need to solve and understand the weight of our position, to understand the weight of our position. And when I hear our politicians say -- well, we offer Albanians broad autonomy, no Albanian will hear that. Don't fool yourself and lie to yourself - none. There's no one. With letters and numbers, none. We'll give it to them, we can do it. We're small enough to determine France, Germany and America, but we're big enough to protect ourselves from humiliation and that's what the great ones didn't understand, thinking as Pristina did. Pristina thinks... He repeated the words of President Biden ten times about mutual recognition and said – well, Biden said, it must be so. I told him, Nikola's a witness – I, man, went through it at the White House. They offered it to me in the white house. I had the courage in the White House to say no, not to have you force me here, Kurti, in Brussels, to agree to something that didn't occur to me to say yes. I want to repeat -- a compromise solution is the only possible solution, and when you ask me what a compromise is, I'll tell you -- I don't know, but we all have to come to a compromise together. If we don't come, we'll leave this problem for generations to come. I know many of you look forward to it. Maybe you're right, maybe you see better than I do. I wouldn't bet. And so far, I'm going to remind you, on many occasions, especially to my party colleagues, that I've rarely seen anything further. When I said we were going to cut wages and pensions in 2014, because our country was destroyed financially, because our economy was destroyed, because all our factories were robbed and destroyed, they set up chains and locks, and then at all the party forums that I've led and that I love, you've told me everywhere -- well, don't do that, it's better to keep in charge, but not to cut down, not to touch anything, the people are always unhappy. That's when I told you -- how are we going to get the election we have in a year or two? That's when I told you - we don't do politics for choices. The choice is that people say what they think of us and others, but you do politics because you want to do something for your people. It was because people had confidence and knew that we were honest with them, that we weren't lying to them, that we weren't fooling them, that we weren't telling them how easy, easy and beautiful it was, that we were going with the most difficult measures possible, with the most difficult drugs for the most severe possible disease. Today we can have one of the most advanced and fastest growing European economies, without any financial problems to help people and unemployed and employees, and businesses to our and everyone else. That's how you feel about it. Don't look forward to the frozen conflict. Unfortunately, I'm afraid he'll stay that way, I'm afraid, but I don't hope so. And 90% of you can say right away, 90% are chances that's how it's gonna be. Unfortunately, that's right, because you don't have enough responsible partners, you don't even have people who are trying to understand reality, you don't have people who understand that it's not just the United States and the European Union anymore, which are important, very important, infinitely important, and on the other hand you have us who see, and as soon as we get better, we become boastful and say, we can do anything today. Because when you look at it, and I'm going to read you the exact details of how Pristina is arming itself, who's arming it, to get every rifle they have, every vehicle they have, and how much they invest more, so in the last five years, they're going to double their budget by next year. It doubles their budget with everything they get from Americans, Turks and Germans, which is in equipment, which is in weapons, which is in training for Pristina fighters, for Pristina, they don't hide soldiers, and if they're members of the KSB, but they don't hide and they're organized as the real army and nobody tries to stop them in violation, once again in violation of Resolution 1244, as they are able to transfer any breach, every resolution, even if they're within minimum limits. All of it is, to be honest with how much money we have and how much we invest, nothing special is even to worry about. No, not even for worry. That's what I'm telling you, I'm like someone who's always pessimistic and who's always willing to underestimate us and who overestimates others. It's nothing to worry about. It's something else to worry about. The concern is the trend that shows that certain countries of the West want to arm them further, the additional equipment, so you wonder why you're doing it? When they say, "Well, what are you doing?" Well, we do it because we have the right to do it because we are a sovereign and independent country. We have the right to ask no one and do what we want with our weapons and tools. It's only important for us to buy it to see what the public debt is like and see what the public debt is like, whether we can afford it or not. But they don't have that right. That is what they want to tell you that they treat them as a sovereign and independent state, contrary to Resolution 1244, international public-law acts and other agreements signed, including the Kumanski Agreement. But they don't care. As I have said many times: “Quod the hypocrites hunt, the non - lyrical bows, ” so what is like to Jupiter, like God, does not like the ox. So they're gods, and we're oxen, so we don't exactly have the right, similar or the same rights as they have. What's the problem with all this, the biggest thing I see today, as president of Serbia, is that I don't see a solution. I don't see what that compromise solution would look like, nor do I see the intention on the other side of it at all to discuss or even to be precise, to even think about a compromise. They all came down to the most brutal campaign against Serbia. I'm not going to tell you about the topic they mentioned, the lawsuit for genocide against the Republic of Serbia, and then when I responded properly, and then he said - and what you are rebelling about, in fact. It has nothing to do with you, it has to do with the facts that happened on the ground, as if he quoted Milo Djukanovic or Milo Djukanovic Kurti. They used exactly the same words, even though they didn't hear each other. I say, well, no problem, just don't threaten us anymore. Come on, file that genocide suit. I'm telling you, they don't stand a chance. They can handle it. They asked Albania to refuse to be the one to hand over the initiative. Let's see now, file that genocide suit, see what you do with that lawsuit, but when you file a genocide suit, you need to know that I don't know what we'd be talking about in that case. Then what do you expect from Serbia? Then what do you expect from us? To pay you war damages for trying and supporting the Western forces from your corner, you managed to split up some of our territory, which we don't accept. So that's why we have to pay for something and that's why we committed genocide. You told us about a major humanitarian disaster, and in the end the only humanitarian disaster was experienced by Serbs. Albanians are no less in Kosovo and Metohija than they were in 1998, 1999, and the Serbs are about 120,000 less. We go too far, so we say it's a larger number, I'm telling you exact numbers. We don't have anyone else in Kosovo anymore. We have left to sing "Serbian trumpet from Kosovo is heard," but there are no Serbs in Kosovo Polje, there are few Serbs in Bresje, which were 85% Serbian. We lose the Coals, we lose the Chag because in a clever and cunning way, they banish them. Every place we lose, except we pretend it's not happening and we can help as much money as you want, it's not going, it's real life. The other thing is what we feel, what is our spiritual strength and what is what we know we cannot and cannot give up, but we must do the same, as Albanians who do not understand what reality is to try to be pragmatic, rational, not because of us, but because of that, as we see here many young people who are about to have children. If I were to be completely open to you, my children wouldn't be cowards, I have two sons who will never get away from anyone in power, and whenever the state calls on a huge country, they'll always be there, but I don't want to be completely honest as a father, I'd be silent, I wouldn't say a word, but I wouldn't want anyone to bring Danila or Vukana back to me in the coffin, either, I wouldn't want other people's children back. I'll tell you something that made me bitter forever. The other day, I said, to see what kind of people we are, the other day I told someone in our services -- call on that big exercise, to the Cave, where we will show the power of the Serb army, the great power of the Serb army, today tenfold greater than it was a few years ago, and I did not go too far when I say ten times that. I'm saying, call the men who were at Kosharam, call the survivors from Koshar. It hasn't been 48 hours, I thought it was over. You know, President, we can't do that. I don't understand why you can't do that. Are we breaking any protocol? Have we done anything to hurt anyone? These people were there to defend our country. We sent them to defend our country. Well, we can't. You know, a lot of them have files. Some have committed crimes and crimes before, and now it's not right for them to be near the president. Then I made a list, pulled out everyone who did what he did and so on. I've invited them all - come to me for an interview. Then they came all the way into my office and I said this is all exactly what you brought me. - Yes, it's all been checked multiple times, all done just right, all procedures respected. Then I asked those people who came to me -- was your son in the basket? Have you been to Kosharam? Did I go to basketball? We didn't. We could have sent them back then. We didn't read their files. We didn't ask them if they committed a crime or some crime. When they were supposed to defend the country, then we sent them there, because we didn't have the courage to be there for them and because we thought we were very smart to stay here in Belgrade and do a lot of important things, and they were cannon meat for both NATO and Albanians from Albania and Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija. When I asked that question, they said -- so we didn't think like that, neither did bad people, did things according to the law. And then I told them -- well, now that we have a list of 186 people who survived Koshare, I hope I didn't make a mistake for one or two, they'll forgive me, I told them -- now call them, everyone to come in, whatever uniform they want, whatever uniform they've been in, and they'll all be on a cave near me, and then you're saying that I've stepped on protocols and done everything the opposite of what security services told me, because I want those people who fought braver than others, many of them wounded, 108 of them lost their lives, I want to show them respect, honor, never to be ashamed of our fighters again, but to be proud of them. But I only said this to be fair to future generations. Only you who drill into the chest in the Belgrade cafes will consider not sending someone else, but want to send your child. Whoever calls any of my sons, they'll go anytime. And would I like that to happen? I wouldn't. I wish they could enjoy economic progress, I wish they could work fair, make money for their bread and nothing more. Kurti asked for a declaration of peace. It was so cleverly designed, that he would be for peace. Imagine a declaration of peace that you sign with yourself. And so Serbia would not know who to sign the declaration of peace with, because to sign the declaration of peace, you have to understand that all they do is tricks just to recognise Kosovo's independence, because you can only sign the declaration of peace with a sovereign and independent state. My question - what can you tell him? If you say no, then you are against peace, and they are for peace, and then you have to get into explanations that last 20 minutes, half an hour, why can't you do that, but you see behind every sentence they say, that's just going to make America and the EU recognise Kosovo's independence, and we won't even offer them anything. You see there's no desire to talk, and that's what I'm worried about. We are ready to protect this highest value, with freedom, which is peace, but we are not ready to accept when we talk about it, not just from Pristina, but from any country in the world, the humiliation that someone has given us. Serbia, first of all, is no longer a country of subjugation and courteous mentality. We must never be boastful and arrogant, but I also promise you that Serbia and I say that Serbia is not being guided today, and I promise that neither in the coming period will those whom the secretaries of individual embassies say what they can say, what they can write, what they can answer, and what they can't do. And I am proud of the fact that Serbia is an independent and independent country and independent in its decision, independent in making its own policy. Imagine that today, as it happened in 2008, you were invited by a tycoon and three ambassadors to the bar and dictated the composition of the government. Can you imagine any of them calling me today and telling me who I'm going to choose as a prime minister or who you're going to vote for as a member of the government and who not? It would be such a humiliation that I couldn't live for hours, not days, hours. It would be such a humiliation to our country, such a humiliation to our people that I have no words. And this shows how much Serbia has progressed in both political and economic terms. We succeeded, despite everything else, by renewing all our monasteries and churches, ending, not finishing, but essentially building and finishing the construction of the temple of St. Sava, because we invested most in its construction, to raise the monument of Emperor Lazarus in Kosovo and Metohija and King Milutin in Gracanica and Stefan Nemanja in Belgrade and King Peter the Liberator in Novi Sad, to worry about all this, to make films about the First World War, the first time since 1964, and two – and "King Peter's socks" and "Sleeping for Soldiers" and to make "The gift from Jasenovac" and everything else we haven't done in the past decades, to show how important it is to protect our identity and self-esteem. But, with self-respect, we must show respect for others, too, we must show a pite for both Albanian victims and Bosniak and all other victims, and that is not difficult when we say so. Let some of them see political manipulation, that even after 26 years or 22 years, they're looking for additional political rights for themselves, war damages, and I don't know what kind of miracles. Let them look for anything they want. It is ours never because we seem to be under pressure to give up the truth and to always and at all times express our condolences and compassion and bitter remorse for what some of our fellow countrymen have committed grave crimes. That's why we have to be different from everyone else. I know this will never come with applause or approval, but believe me, it's the only thing that gives us Serbs strength. If we don't respect others and if we don't show respect for other victims, everyone will wonder what's wrong with us, is it possible to see only our victims? But also, when they talk about one place in the former Yugoslavia, and how can you forget Jasenovac? So let's take Tudjman's estimates of how many Serbs died, and that's more than that place you're all talking about. So we Serbs expect God to know what justice as a people cannot and should not expect it. We will pay the price with a smaller part of our wrong policy, certainly it has been, and most of the boast, the ossions, the arrogant policies of the brutal interests of the trampling of independent states and peoples who are not subject-oriented, and what exists in the part of the great forces, which will never tell us – sorry for the aggression against our country in 1999, because they will always say that they have prevented the humanitarian disaster. And when you ask them a simple question, and I ask them every day, well, a humanitarian disaster, we could answer for it, what does it have to do with the secession of part of Serbia's territory? What did you give Kosovo independence? And when you're talking about a humanitarian disaster, isn't it from your corner ten times the humanitarian disaster situation in Afghanistan? So why didn't you separate Kandahar from Kabul? Why didn't you separate Shiite Basra from Baghdad or even better than Kurt Mosul or Sunnet Tikrit? Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you separate Aleppo and Homs from Damascus? There was an incomparably greater humanitarian disaster everywhere than in Kosovo and Metohija, but you only took it from the Serbs. All right, Alexander, you're right about that, but let's move on to what's reality, etc. I say, well, I'm glad you don't have an answer. Then comes the second question that our people from Republika Srpska ask, and there you will see incredible hypocrisy. In doing so, it is immediately clear, we advocate respect for Bosnia and Herzegovina's integrity and we will always do so, with respect for the integrity of Republika Srpska, because it is a Serbian and constitutional and Dayton category in Bosnia and Herzegovina. When people from Republika Srpska come and ask them a question, and then they think they have the right to criticise them in front of me, they say -- well, how did you give the Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija the right to self-determination, and how do we Serbs on the defined international treaty territory have no right to do so, on what principle of international public law? Muk. Okay, you know that would be bad. I'm not asking you that, I'm asking you on what principle of international law. And then I ask them -- no problem, I'm against it, we don't touch Bosnia and Herzegovina, we respect it, we understand everything, I've repeated it a million times in front of Dodik and in front of Zeljko and in front of everyone, but tell me what to say, what to tell these people. One of the biggest European statesmen told me, the only one who told you, to tell you everything you're right, Alexander, you're all right about what you said, but you have to understand, because I know that the situation is different, and you have to have a pragmatic approach, your country is going well ahead, keep the country safe, don't go any further into it. I say, "That's what I'm doing," but I'm asking if you can give me the principle by which someone has a right, and by which someone else has no right, and believe me, there's no answer, there's no meaningful answer. Because they know there's no meaningful answer, because I've answered every question ten times, now they don't talk about it anymore. There is no meaningful answer and there will be no answer, and therefore we Serbs do not need to seek meaningful answers and justice, because we will not get justice or meaningful answers. We need to look at ourselves and watch what it is that we can, as long as we can, what it is that's real to preserve peace, to preserve the earth, to protect our children. It's not our problem anymore. Our problem is we don't have kids. Our outflow in previous years is never smaller, we have even an unusually significant inflow of people from outside who come to our country and Serbs who return still exist as a problem, but not as close as it was 10, 20 and 30 years ago. It's no longer an outflow of those who are the most intellectual, but it's a problem for us to leave the craftsmen. So it's ours to see how to find that environment, to guard our cheeks, to protect our country, to protect our nation, to see what measures to find. I don't know how much to pay for someone to have a baby. If we need to do this, we will, because it becomes the most expensive and important word in Serbia or the only important word. We don't want to have labor for factories, we don't want to have anything if we don't have kids. The child becomes absolutely the most important fact for each of us, not the size of our growth, the importance of our growth, the importance of our economic performance, is what we will do with Kosovo and Metohija. We'll have nothing to do with anything if we don't have children, even though people don't understand it in Serbia. So, it's our job to find this path of responsibility, the seriousness in which we're going to keep and protect our national and state interests, but at the same time every day we're looking for a compromise solution, because without it, someone is going to defrost that conflict that day, and then whatever we do, I'm going to do, and whatever happens, I'm going to ask somebody's mother and tell her -- I'm sorry that you don't have a son anymore, but here we made a big victory, so what kind of victory is that? If any of you are willing to do so, I am not, except to be brutally attacked by anyone, I am not prepared to participate, and bear in mind that I have warned both Kurti and the International Community that they are not trying physically to take over the Wallace station, and I am telling you openly, because I know what they are planning and what they planned and warned him and asked him not to do so. Three times, it seems to me, Nikola, I said – I ask you not to try. And these people upstairs, from the gallery, know what that means. You don't know in this room and you don't have to know. Not because they are more important than the people's representatives, but because we have discussed it countless times at forums where you can discuss it. I asked him three times – don't, please, think physically about taking the waltz, here, please, you can do it for 24 or 48 hours, and that's all. So there are countless risks, countless problems. Our behavior must be more responsible, more serious. We have to tell the people the truth, not to deceive him, not to tell fairy tales because we have elections ahead. Let fairy tales tell those who lie to him all the time. You know what their conversations with strangers look like? We have to replace this dictator Vukic, you see, he does not want to recognise independent Kosovo, and then they ask – and you want to. No, no, we think, you know, dear second secretary or third secretary and first deputy second secretary, we want to inform you that the biggest problem in talks with Pristina is lack of transparency and democratic capacity. These people look at them, what these fools say; well, tell us what kind of solution you see. You know, this transparency and this democratic capacity is very important, you help us beat Vukic, so we'll deal with Albanians soon, 15 days, a month. It's okay, people, that you're going to make a deal with the Albanians, but what's going to be the solution is the result of your agreement. Not now, you ask a lot of us, we're not ready to go to this level, we didn't come to talk to you, but the important thing is to help us war the dictators, and then everything will be different and easier. Imagine, when you have these irresponsible guys on one side and these aren't the responsible people in Pristina with this kind of approach, and that's what I've been talking about. What can it all turn into just one day? So, full seriousness, full responsibility, much work, even more support for our people, support for our heroes who live and guard our hearths, keep the Serbian name in Kosovo and Metohija. No one can forbid this, but it is a rational, pragmatic approach to solving all problems, preparedness and openness for dialogue, readiness and openness always for talks with Albanians, to solve all problems peacefully, not to return threats to their threats, but to make it clear that we will not allow any new "Storm", no new "Blash" and no new persecution of the Serbian people. To bring an end to this exhibit, and then I'm ready to answer all your objections, your questions. I am pleased that yesterday with the work of people who are outside Parliament, who think otherwise, have had a good, serious, meaningful conversation and many of them, despite the opposition of our policy, have said that they are ready to help their country. Not to us as political entities and not personally, but certainly to help their country and I express my gratitude for their responsible approach. We are a sovereign independent country, a country that has the right to its own interests, to its territory, to life and to that right, we do not want to give up, whether someone likes it or not, especially because we do not endanger anyone or people in Kosovo and Metohija. We're not going in there, we're not going in there, we're not going in there, we're not going in there, we're not going in there. We want all people to live in the same way as we do, in peace and security, and all we want to do is play the political game we can and we have to play by the terms and rules that apply to everyone, by the principles that apply to everyone. And one that will end with no humiliation or violence by any side, but a result that no one will be satisfied with. It is precisely the only result and the basic condition for continuing games, not conflict and violence, and that is the only thing Serbia can offer and nothing more. I'm afraid, I'm afraid that such a desire to compromise and reach an agreement at this point at all, but there is no other way at all, because I've had the opportunity to meet both representatives of the Pristina executive government, so Vlyos Osmani and Albin Kurti. I've never heard anything like it from Haradinaj, or from him, but I've only seen him a few times in regular gatherings, not from Hashim Thaci, not from Hoti. It's something that has nothing to do with seriousness, accountability, and reality. In doing so, I don't have to tell you what I think or what you all think about your three men who used to have conversations before Kurti. In the end, our offer is to talk, talk, talk and try to come up with a compromise solution. I ask everyone not to force Serbia to do what it cannot. Help Serbia do what it can. Lived by our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7689	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, Milovan Drecun, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7690	Dear President of the National Assembly, President of the Republic, members of the Government, dear sister and brothers from Kosovo and Metohija, you who represent our people in our southern province, where every Serb, every Serbian, wherever he was born, wherever he lived, colleagues and colleagues, the Kosovo and Metohija Committee discussed and unanimously adopted reports on the work of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija from May to June of this year, as well as on negotiations with temporary institutions of self-government. I'd take the opportunity to say a few sentences in front of the board, what I've seen during these meetings in this session. The Committee strongly supports our country's efforts to help the Serbian people survive in Kosovo and Metohija, to develop, to be safe and to have a perspective. We have seen the very express work of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and the Government of the Republic of Serbia helping the Serbian people in a way that has covered all the areas of the lives of the Serbian people and that support is evenly distributed in all municipalities where Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija. Without a safe roof over the head there is no survival, no return, and therefore we especially support the construction of apartments, houses, a return settlement. Without schools, kindergartens, health institutions, which are vital to the development and survival of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, cannot survive and live normally. The economic strength of Serbs, especially in agriculture, is vital to the economic perspective of the Serbian people. Infrastructure, water pipelines, thus safeguarding the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. Protecting cultural and historical heritage is essential for preserving the spiritual and national identity of the Serbian people. Information, of a special nature. You know, in 1988, 33 years ago, I did the first report on Kosovo and Metohija as a journalist, and since then, I've never been able to deal with this issue without a strong emotion to talk about it, and that's probably the feeling of all of us. In addition to all that the state leadership has done to support the Serbian people, to fulfill basic, all over the world of guaranteed human rights and freedom and safe life are the basis for the survival of the Serb people who are in Kosovo and Metohija unequal, discriminated against, belittled. Temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija treat Serbs as second-class citizens. That is why it is crucial that we continue as we have so far to help our people to survive, to return as many exiles as possible to their hearths, to develop our people, to multiply. We will be able to achieve this by preserving dialogue with temporary institutions of self-government and strong commitment and by insisting that the cosmetic problem is solved exclusively in a peaceful way, by political arrangements, not threats, blackmail, unilateral decisions. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee provides full support to the state leadership for the negotiation process with the provisional institutions of self-government to protect the state and national interests and integrity of the Serbian state with a sincere commitment to seeking a compromise solution that cannot be reached, or can only be achieved within the framework of dialogue, and not in the framework of unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo. Only a successful dialogue can create conditions for the start of a sincere trust between Serbs and Albanians, which we so need. It is, Mr. President of the Republic, in this generation, the responsibility to create conditions for young Serbs and Albanians not to see each other as enemies, but to accept at one point that something that is a real common life in both Kosovo and Metohija and wherever they are. This isn't a good situation. This is not the way to go. Unfortunately, Pristina can't figure this out. One more thing. I am really pleased when you mentioned that the surviving color members of the Koraula Košara area will be invited to attend the exercise on the Cave with one note – you know, like heroes from Kosar of similar heroes, there were everywhere in Kosovo and Metohija, both in Paštrik and in Gorožup and in Cicevica, in Drenica, in the Kosovo Sea and in Bajgora. Shoulders alongside our army, our police, volunteers, members of our security forces fought in Kosovo and the Serbian Freedom Metohija. I can't forget a single scene in 1999 at the very beginning of our country's criminal bombing when a military unit with combat vehicles is in the village of Gornja Trpeza after a few days...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7691	Mr. Drecun, let me tell you that this is the committee's rapporteur, and your discussion is later.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7692	I just wanted to tell you, National Assembly President, that one sergeant who fought for Serbia's freedom then lifts three fingers, turns to me and says, "This is all for Serbia." And it's all for Serbia. And what we're doing today is for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7693	Thank you. Thank you. We are going to the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7694	Dear President of the Republic, the Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Guests, the Honorable Citizens. Today we have a theme of special importance for the Republic of Serbia, especially for the Serbian people. I am fully aware of the necessary caution that should be addressed on this subject, in front of this honorable home in this composition, a Bosniak, a People's MP. Even some of my friends have suggested to me, best stay away, you don't have to speak on this subject or don't be at the Assembly or don't discuss it, because this is a hot topic for you, for the Bosniaks, for the party you're leading. This issue, Kosovo, was raised in a conflict between the Serb and Albanian people, and when one Bosniak or one of the representatives of Bosniaks gets involved, whatever you say will be resented and you will certainly not be pleased with either one or the other. Probably that I am one of those people in politics who is exclusively guided by personal, party or any particular interest, so I would tactfully, pragmatically, but I belong to those who are convinced that you cannot deal with politics and social issues seriously without having the attitude, courage and responsibility to state that view on any matter, whether it be hot or risky for you. That is why I have decided to address myself with the belief that from what I am about to say, and above all it will be true, taking care of the fact that I am a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, a correct citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but also a man and a citizen who wants every single good and Serbian people and the Albanian people in the hope that something I can say will be useful. I thank you for the exhaustive speech of the President of the Republic, who in the most part contained a fiction of what he, the Government, his team and all those dealing with the issue. I can say that I am pleased that such a great accent and focus is placed on topics from economy and development. When we have a question in front of us about territory and about holiness, temples, faith, spirituality, it is not possible to rule out emotions. They're always an emotional factor that will be very present. But what key decision factors in this country and every serious country should have is a way of managing these emotions. How to manage, how to manage emotions? Emotions are something that is human factography and something that makes a man, among other things, human. It's not possible to give up emotion and be without emotion, but to keep humanity. But on the other hand, it's equally dangerous to lose control of emotions. In private life, it is much easier, but it also has a certain price in dealing with emotions, but in social life, that is, when you are able as president of the state, as a government, as people with certain responsibilities towards the people, then the issue of emotional governance is experienced and gained special importance, a special role, but also implies huge risks. We have a topic in which and an eye that has been injected with emotion for decades. That's our reality. Otherwise, from the scientific aspect of psychology when you lick, inject, or disintegrate emotions, you will eventually have to have an epilogue adequate of what you have done with emotions, or what the expectations of these emotions are. It's like raising your morale, raising your will when the factor of emotion is very important. But you should know that a great uplifting emotion and giving great space to emotions means you're after it at the end. And if you don't have a charge or if you don't have a plan to run, then know that it's a hoarding, a dangerous build-up of energy and fire that you won't know what to do at some point. This is very important to know, especially the people who make decisions. They're permanent on the rings, and they know it best because they're the ones who are on the ground and they're leading dialogue and they're having negotiations, and they're dealing with everything that we can know to a certain extent by following these fights and these events, but also with a lot of things that we can't know, and what they know and they feel, they can tell us, and a lot of rich people and they can't tell us, because if you put a lot of things on that, then if you tell your friends, then they'll learn something from it and your enemies, and then you have to be very, very careful about it, especially if you want to be a state president, and not just a party or a day-political one. There's a huge difference. That's why we as MPs, of course rightly all those who feel that we have both emotion and that emotion and show, but know that decisions can't be made on disillusioned, disemboweled emotions. That's what's very important here today to know. In particular, the second part of the speech is very important to me, the one relating to the future, the one relating to dialogue, the one relating to the negotiations and the one relating to all the narrow space to be taxed, to have maneuvers, is already actually the state summit approaching that it must have some clearer views through this dialogue and through these negotiations and ultimately make certain decisions. We heard the frame, and today we've heard what's not going to happen, but in the end, it's going to have to be precise, it's going to decide what it wants. I am not sure that parliament, as the country's highest legislative and representative body, is the framework in which it can be drawn in advance. As you prepare for every important game, consider this as the World Cup finals, make the best strategy, but once again 11 players, shooters, captains will have to go on the ground, on the green field in front of the goal to decide for themselves at some point. Likewise, the president, no matter how many days from here we give him support, complete, limited, unlimited, indicative, principled, will have to decide on this today's Assembly. Perhaps on some other, even more concrete, but definitely to some extent on this, however we stand, he and his team will have to at the moment the negotiations are taking place, to actually make moves like at big games, like at big chess games, where you can't tell – wait, I don't know what MPs in the National Assembly are going to say on this issue. So that's why the president is elected, that's why the highest statesmen are elected, where through elections and through these sessions of the National Assembly you're actually giving them support, you're giving them authority, and they're like when you send a lawyer to court and you sign his authority, if you choose the right lawyer, you have a chance to get you out, and if you're wrong, then it's too late for you to withdraw your powers when he's already in court and it's an opportunity to give a statement on behalf of you, and even something to sign and accept the settlements. So what I would like to point out today to the National Assembly is that, in fact, it is up to the negotiating team, headed by the President, to seek the best solution. I'm glad the frames are the way we heard them, that they're not rigid, that they're not exclusive. Because if you want to negotiate with exclusive demands, then there is no negotiation. They've fallen apart in advance. And that is why it is necessary to seek such a solution. Listen, on this issue and similar issues, often from intellectuals, analysts and certain politicians, a formulation is heard -- a final solution. My suggestion and advice would be to release the "final solution" formula. The final solutions, by the way, are the "final solutions" of totalitarian regimes and dictatorships. So all totalitarian regimes throughout history have been trying to make or find some final solutions. Only God gives final solutions, remember that. We, or Serbia state, should seek a sustainable solution. That's what should, in my opinion, be a framework that leaves opportunities to get to some point that's acceptable. So if you're looking for a sustainable solution, then you have room to look for a compromise, and we've heard that orientation is a compromise, which I think is very good, and what I think needs to be here today to get significant, or if that's possible full support. I deliberately mentioned the question of emotion. If you just empty or accumulate emotion for decades without being able to articulate it through certain success, not say victory, so if it lasts too long, it'll only increase depression, it'll only increase hopelessness, it'll only increase the atmosphere in which each individual spends too much energy, but not for useful things. So the state needs to find with its negotiating team, headed by the president, a way to come up with a certain solution, a sustainable solution, a formula that I consider acceptable -- a sustainable solution, where depression, hopelessness and an unarticulated accumulation will begin to be reduced, and the destruction of the emotions themselves. This should be some strategic and political and psychological framework that should be given to the president here today by the National Assembly, so that he actually gets a space in finding this acceptable and sustainable solution. Otherwise, negotiations, negotiation or as it is said in a milder form - dialogue, mostly the outcome of negotiations or the success of negotiations depends mostly on two factors. One factor is the ability of the negotiator himself. So the ability of the negotiators is a very important factor, regardless of what it sometimes looks like, so that they are great dictates and that they have to accept all the dictatorships, that some have decided something without others giving anything, etc., regardless of such an atmosphere, as long as negotiations exist, it is not possible to complete the dictatorships. And that's why negotiations always stand a chance. That is why the negotiating skills of the negotiations are very important. Even negotiating is some kind of art, more than skill, even some kind of art. Because these are moments that almost, in shades, reverse the situation and for something that seems a little bit on the negotiating table, later in implementation, if you have good and strong negotiators, it turns out to be very important, leave a buckle, leave something that is petty at that moment, and later it can grow and be very important. The second factor is actually the base, and the basis of the negotiating delegation is this National Assembly and, of course, the entire people, primarily the Serbian people. That's why it's very important how this base treats the negotiator, whether it binds his arms and legs or he gets rid of his arms and legs. It's also a very important factor. We are here today in the National Assembly, in a way to suggest to the people, whether we want to tie hands and legs to the President of the Republic and the negotiator, or we will spread his wings so that he can look for the best solutions in this very difficult, very delicate and not easy challenge. Of course I suggest actually this second and I think the discussions, the presentations of representatives of parliamentary groups and political parties should actually go that way. As a member of the Bosniak people's community and president and representative of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and four MPs, as well as our parliamentary groups, I would like to point out that I have very high attention on Kosovo and because of the relatively numerous community of Bosniak people in Kosovo who are also looking for their place in that community and in all these new circumstances, which are not easy to preserve their language, their culture to which they have the right and, therefore, it is extremely important for us and for that aspect, how all circumstances will take place in Kosovo. Of course there are other national communities that have similar problems and similar challenges. True, the Bosniak people in Kosovo fight through their political representatives to the maximum for their position. This time they have achieved some steps, they also have their Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Emilia, who is very valuable and who, like a lioness, is fighting for her community using every opportunity to do so. That is why, I say, as a community that does not want in any way to make the wrong move in these relations between Belgrade and Pristina, but we also cannot be on the sidelines, but it is very important to us that the state of the Bosniak community in Kosovo and in what circumstances they can exercise their individual and collective rights, knowing that from the very outcome of these negotiations, this dialogue will also have certain implications for other national minorities, including the Bosniak national community. In this context, with the position of this parliamentary group, namely the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, we want to be very clear in supporting the President and his negotiating team in future negotiations and dialogue and all processes that take place in this direction by supporting him in full capacity and political, and national, and by looking for a solution that will be sustainable, which can be defined as an agreement. I am aware that this cannot, as I said, be called a final solution, but reaching a certain agreement will be necessary. This achievement, I think, will allow the whole country, the people, all citizens to feel depressed, the fall of certain hopelessness, the fall in energy consumption that is spilling in that direction, and certainly that overall international relations, globalization by model before the covidal pandemic, after the pandemic, believe me, there are many more ambiguities. I wouldn't waste my mind until we see what's going to come out of this covid pandemic in global political international relations. Thus, small nations are rarely able to achieve their goals by force. It remains for small nations to focus all their strength on mind, on the luxury of the mind, on wisdom, on tactics, on knowledge and on the quality of knowledge and wisdom, and in fact by fighting to achieve the goals of the points, we are held in the saddle and we are in a chance to do something. A mistake can be fatal. Thank you very much, and I wish you every good thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7695	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we will be working after 18 hours today, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7696	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of the government, Mr. President of the Republic, and while I represent the political opposition here, aware of the difficulties currently in dialogue, I firmly believe that dialogue between Kosovo and Serbia is the only way to address not only this issue, but also the end of the two peoples' eternal hostility. As a member of the Albanian people, I see my people's perspective in EU membership, but at the same time in mutual and harmonious co-operation with all the peoples of the Western Balkans, as well as with the Serbian people, and especially with the Serb people. As a member of the Albanian national minority living in Serbia, I believe that normalising relations between Kosovo and Serbia will affect the normalisation of the positions of my countrymen living in Presevo, Medvedji and Bujanovac, as well as of all Albanians living within the Republic of Serbia. The Balkan peoples' co-existence formula is tolerance, patience, mutual understanding. Every other option led to bloody conflicts. Ten years ago, the first round of dialogue between Serbia and Kosovo began. The initial enthusiasm of the first years of the process in which several agreements were signed, including the April 2013 relations normalisation agreement, was replaced by, I would say, a long-term crisis. From blocking Serbia to Kosovo into international organisations, through stories of exchange of territory, until the signing of an agreement in Washington and the appointment of Miroslav Lajcak as EU special representative, the tenth anniversary since the start of the dialogue is met without fundamental success. Even so, I believe that the deleted dialogue, despite the fact that today's official Brussels does not provide strong driving power, remains the main mechanism of the normalisation process. Other mechanisms covering several informal, bilateral and multilateral activities may be welcome, but are certainly no alternative to the Brussels dialogue. EU integration remains the common objective of Serbia and Kosovo, and the comprehensive Normalisation Agreement is a condition for EU and Serbian and Kosovo membership. EU Special Envoy for Dialogue Miroslav Lajcak said that Kosovo and Serbia's dialogue is clearly linked to their future, suggesting that without progress in this process, no party can hope for EU membership, and it is unlikely that the EU will introduce another frozen conflict within itself. Another stops, and the EU should offer prospects for membership and Serbia and Kosovo even more credible and visible through greater political and financial support during the negotiation process. In order to create an atmosphere favourable to dialogue, both sides should respect the EU's official position, which is that they should refrain from statements that are counterproductive to normalising their relations and work towards a comprehensive agreement. The language of hatred and recycling of the term of the 1980s, in the 1990s, has no place in this reconciliation dialogue, which should at the same time be a process of facing the past. I understand Serbia's need to advocate its interests in the dialogue process, but I certainly think this is the moment for the public in Serbia to be aware that Serbia in Kosovo and Kosovo today must talk to the people who killed children and many and entire families. You, Mr. President, may in one of the next rounds of dialogue on the other side of the table have Saranda Bogovci, whose family was killed by Serbian Scorpions. The humanity in you won't let you calmly look her in the eye. I believe that today the Serbian people must, as Bogdan Bogdanovic once said, look at themselves with other people's eyes and finally realize that making friends is more important than conquering territories. Today, it must be understood that Kosovo's independence is a logical consequence of the collapse of the former SFRY, in respect of the right to self-determination of the people who were exposed to apartheid during the 1990s and over which serious war crimes were committed in 1998 and 1999 on behalf of the Serbian state and the Serbian people. Serbia has to face these facts today. The public in Serbia should be fully informed of everything that has happened in Kosovo in the 1990s. You were doing well when you announced that you would inform the public about the details of the Panda case, but then you stopped. I don't know why, but if you'd gone all the way, you'd feel better today. The Serbian public must know that Kosovo massacres marked a series of massacres committed by police, military and paramilitary forces over the Albanian population in 1999. The murders were committed in parallel with mass persecution and deportation of the civilian population. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia ruled that Serbia-SRJ forces conducted a widespread and organised terror campaign during 1999, including mass killings. The court council found that crimes against Albanians were committed in an organised manner, with significant use of state resources and that the Yugoslav Army and police forces committed widespread, quote, and systematic attacks on Kosovo Albanians. It was established that Serbian forces committed mass killings by hundreds of Albanians at the end of March 1999, including women and children, in Djakovica, Celinas, Mali Krusa and Suvoj Rekai. It's just some places. According to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav and Serbian military in municipalities across Kosovo systematically attacked settlements inhabited by Albanian populations, harassed, robbed and killed civilians, ordering them to go to Albania, Montenegro or Macedonia, burning down their houses and destroying their property. The forces of the Yugoslav and Serbian military have committed numerous war crimes during the implementation, according to the court, of a joint criminal enterprise. Crimes are covered up by the bodies of killed civilians being secretly transported to the interior of Serbia. In close Serbia there are several mass graves, Batajnica, Petrovo Selo, Perućac and Kižjak are just some of them. On this occasion, I will mention only some of the massacres that were committed: on 28 February 1998 – a massacre in Likoshani; on 28 February and 1 March 1998 – a massacre in Cirez, Serbian police outside the court executed several members of the Sejdiu family; on 26 September 1998 – a massacre in Gornji Obrinj, units of special police killed more than 20 members of the Delji family, mostly women, children and old people; on 15 January 1999 – a massacre in Račko, police forces killed 45 locals; on March 25th 1999 – a massacre in the Great Krus, special units of police killed over 90 men in prison in one barn, after which the bodies were burned; on 26th of March 1999 – a massacre in Suvoj Recaj, police locked all members of the Berisha family within a pizza and killed them with bombs and automatic weapons, and killed many children in prisons, and killed in prisons in 19. These war crimes were ordered, organised and implemented by state structures and officials of the Republic of Serbia, which is why the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on 27 May 1999 issued the indictment against Slobodan Milosevic and four other senior officials for the murder, persecution and persecution in Kosovo. After the war, many Serbian political and military leaders were tried for the killings, deportations and mass graves of Kosovo's civilian population. I mention only some of them: Slobodan Milosevic, president of Yugoslavia, commander-in-chief of the Yugoslav Army, died in custody in 2006 before the verdict was handed down; Dragoljub Ojdanic, chief of staff, sentenced to 15 years in prison; Nebojsa Pavkovic, commander of the Third Army that was responsible for Kosovo, sentenced to 22 years in prison; Vladimir Lazarevic, commander of the Pristina Corps of the Third Army, who acted in Kosovo, sentenced to 15 years in prison; Vlajko Stojljkovic, interior minister and Serbian police commander, committed suicide in 2002, following the adoption of the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal; Sreten Lukic, head of Serbia's staff in Kosovo, sentenced to 22 years in prison; Nikola Sainovic, deputy prime minister of Yugoslavia, sentenced to 22 years in prison. Nikola Sainovic, Nebojsa Pavkovic and Sreten Lukic were sentenced as participants in a joint criminal enterprise, while others were convicted of aiding and supporting the crime. Many police officers who participated in actions against Albanians in Kosovo in Serbia are still considered war heroes. We need to be aware that we cannot expect a positive outcome of a Middle Ages myth-based dialogue, with complete negation of the current reality. Moreover, there is a clear difference between sober ambitions and unwise deception. Accordingly, Serbia should express a realistic balance between its ambitions and real opportunities. The messages sent at this time are important and should be peaceful. At the request of Prime Minister Kurti to sign the non-attack pact, you responded at the beginning of a military exercise with more than 10,000 soldiers just before the start of a dialogue in Brussels. What message is sent that way? When it comes to the current part of the dialogue, especially the 2011 technical part agreements, I will quote here a report on Serbia's progress for 2020, which says some agreements are being implemented in part, some do not. Certainly both sides should remain committed to continuing the dialogue. The issue of implementing an agreement on the cataster and recognition of university diplomas has not been resolved, as should the elements regarding the registration tables under the Free Movement Agreement. Serbia has not even resolved the issue of the relocated Serbian and administrative customs structures. Serbia should stop issuing documents or placing marks with Kosovo's edification, which is contrary to the agreement. When it comes to IBM, Serbia has not been constructively engaged in the launch of these crossings on the Serbian side of Jarinj, Muchibaba and Konchulj, leading to the suspension of EU funds in July 2018. It should also be noted that the daily Satanization of the other side, the presentation of any other negative and offensive qualifications at the expense of Albanians and Kosovo, does not contribute to the dialogue. Has Kosovo illegally declared independence? One of the questions you hear every day. This issue cannot be seen in a purely daily political sense. This legal issue, viewed on the more realistic side, leads us to the insignificant conclusion that this is a question the International Court of Justice has given the final answer to. I will just remind myself that in its decision on this matter, SMEs have found that the court cannot accept the argument that Resolution 1244 contains a ban on the declaration of independence. The final conclusion of the ICJ was cited – the Declaration of Independence reached on 17 February 2008 did not violate the general international law, Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, nor the constitutional framework, and in the end the Court concludes that the adoption of such a declaration did not violate any applicable principle of international law. You, Mr. President, have distanced yourself from Vuk Jeremic, which is a question of the legality of Kosovo's declaration of independence, in order to contribute to the dialogue, I think it is necessary to distance yourself from the policies of Slobodan Milosevic and his misdeeds in Kosovo. Kosovo is one of the major problems today's Serbia, but it is not its only problem, the weaknesses of institutions, the powerful control of the SNS party state and the unresolved key issue of where further, as the problems of today's Serbia are also. Today, Serbia has problems with neighbours regardless of existing multilateral co-operation initiatives in the Western Balkans. Serbia's relations with Montenegro, Croatia, have already deteriorated. Relations with Albania will depend heavily on dialogue with Kosovo. Serbia is tired of its quarrel with a Europe that it does not know and understand. She's tired of her eastern option, of her mini messianic space obsession, tired of her all-national and all-progress traffic from her multi-religious, political, every other orthodox. He said once on Bogdan Bogdanovic. I would add that Serbia is tired of Kosovo today and therefore needs to be found and reached a solution. When it comes to the Albanian community living in the municipalities of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, which is one of the three minority communities other than Hungary and Bosniaks that is territorially compact, it has been systematically subjected to various administrative measures, systematic discrimination aimed at reducing the number of Albanians, but by constantly refusing to demand more rights and territorial autonomy. At the moment, all three agreements by representatives of the Albanian Presevo Valley with governments in Belgrade have failed. I can say that the status of the Albanian community at this point is closely linked to the status of Serbs living in Kosovo. Serbia continues to seek to create one national state and unite all Serbs, and on the other hand is systematically working to marginalise minorities on its territory. Today, an Albanian minority in Serbia, especially one living in the Presevo Valley, lives in anticipation of resolving its status as part of Kosovo and Serbia's dialogue. Equality in rights and standards should be a general principle in defining the position of minorities in this region. If conditions are created to establish trust between the state and our minority, the minority community, it is necessary for the government to demonstrate political will and to engage most seriously in the integration of the Albanian community to what the Republic of Serbia has committed under the three agreements concerning these municipalities. So a civilization of residences that I, in the function of reducing the number of Albanians, is necessary to immediately be suspended, and to all Albanians who have been subject to this discriminatory and administrative measure, to restore civil rights. Proportional representation in the judiciary, police, state institutions and other institutions of public importance is also a test of the country's democratisation. In addition to the need for economic recovery of the region, the issue of textbooks and nostrification of diplomas, official use of languages and symbols, are questions that require a satisfactory answer. Because of its ethnic charm, the Republic of Serbia needs decentralisation and regionalisation, and in this process, the official Belgrade should make a logical demand for Albanians for the same status that Serbia is seeking for Serbs in Kosovo. Because of the growing discourse of hate language, which is now being used uninterrupted by state officials, it is necessary to destructure the stereotype of the imaginary Albanian as a criminal, remethylative and terrorist factor. For all of this, a continued dialogue is necessary. I think that before agreeing with Kosovo, Serbia should have an agreement with Albanians living within its territory, and in this dialogue it respects three agreements that it has reached with the elected representatives of the Albanians of the Presevo Valley. In 2001, 2009 and 2013 Mr. President, you have repeatedly pointed out the need for this problem to be resolved without emotion, sober and responsible. History is a master's vita, says one sentence. I will finally quote one of your countrymen, not because of you, because I believe that you read it, but because of the public, Dimitri Tucovic, who says that the dream of going out to the Adriatic Sea by conquering Albania belongs to the past, but his shadow will long darken the sky over the Serbian people. Serbia wanted to go out to sea and one of its colonies, so it was left without going out to sea, and from the imaginary colony it created a blood enemy. She wanted to push other people's influence out of Albania, and she made it even stronger. The winning shot wanted a radical, definitive solution in favour of its economy on the Adriatic coast, and it was able to determine the other's economy definitely, its desire for the sea, gave the wrong results, as it was carried out on dangerous means, that is, what could have been achieved in the agreement and with the friendly condolences of the freed Albanian people, it wanted to achieve against it. So I invite you, Mr. President, do everything you can to make friends with the Albanians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7697	Thank you. The word is made by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7698	The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly, the honourable MPs, will refer to the previous two exhibitions. So, thank you, Mr. Zukorlic, for the pragmatic national approach. I just want to tell you, since you mentioned members of the Bosniak people in Kosovo and Metohija, that we have tried to make as much effort as possible in northern Kosovo and Metohija where we can help more, but also in all other parts of the southern province, to do everything of interest to the Bosniak people as well. When I was on the territory of the municipality of Leposavic, I spoke to 50 locals in Rvatska and Appreciation where Bosniaks live, so we worked their way worth almost a million and 300 thousand euros. I'm happy that it's done, we're doing a fence around the mosque, we're trying to help with the machinery of the farm so these people can live better and survive on their hearths. As for the question, or the finding that we always know what we don't, and we don't know what we want, it seems to me that at least today, at least in part, I've answered what we want, but you can't, during the negotiations, draw what it is your idea and what it is yours is, to God's red lines, because those red lines when you say they are, they're not anymore, because the other side is never going to accept them again as red lines. That's not what any of the sides did. No one's ever done that, ever. It is the only thing that those who do not know how the negotiations are conducted, those who led them in such a way that it is glorious of them today, says Shaip Kamberi, so well they have led them to build monuments in Albanian settlements in Kosovo and Metohija, precisely because of the International Court of Justice ruling. So they were always talking about red lines. We do not speak in such a way, we say what we cannot, and in these frameworks, there must be enough freedom, enough seriousness, enough responsibility, to be able to achieve the best solutions in the interests of the Serbian people, but of course also in the interest of the Albanian people. As for respect for the Albanian people, you've always knocked on the open door. Here, I listened to you for 20 minutes, dear Mr. Cambery, to me no matter how many times you listened, you could hear calls for compromise and you could hear that we Serbs were not always saints or angels, and I of you, Albanian representatives, never heard that you committed any crimes. Oh, didn't you? Or are your hands clean, and only Serbian hands are bloody? We are criminals, and you are angels of heaven. It's hard for me to believe that story, and the facts assure me. You mentioned an example, you said, will come with you, Mr. Wolfie, to negotiations with Saranda the Bogojevci. [[Applause]] He can come, it's the Albanian side's decision. Saranda Bogojevci, for your sake, is here, indeed, a woman who has been through hell of life, but you should know the following thing, MPs, Saranda Bogojevci was admitted to Belgrade in 2013, in 2013 she freely came to Belgrade and spoke of a serious crime committed against her family. I have a question for you, Mr. Cambery. At those 10 locations that we were looking for, and these 10 locations are to dig up those sites, they are Košare, Lapusnik, Dojnice, Javor, Lugovo, Budisavci, Baljevac, Livačka lake, Meja and Bunker. You've dug up, or the Albanian authorities have dug up only one, it's a bunker at Djakovica and in that bunker, it's fortunate that Saranda Bogojevci is alive, and thank God she is, so she can talk about a serious crime that bad people have committed. And I'm asking you, who's going to talk about the crime or if not the other one, which you didn't, over the Sutakovic family, where three children, 18, less than 18, 13 and 10 years old, Alexander, George and Radoman were killed, criminally and together with their father and mother, were buried so they'd never be found. They cannot come to Pristina and tell you about the serious crime they have suffered because no one in that family has survived. Not Alexander, not George, not Radoman, not their parents, but you didn't remember them. The difference between us is that I also remember Saranda Bogojevci and Alexander, George and Radomana and their dads and moms, and I'm proud of Serbia, who won't hide the criminals who bear Serbian names, but I can't understand you who hold our sermons, and you would hide every crime, just because it was committed by some Albanian. That's the difference between us. They hold, the respected citizens of Serbia, dear people's MPs, every day of the sermon, how when they condemn us for genocide, in fact they don't think of the people, they don't think of our country, they think of individuals, they just never told us who individuals are. To finish this story, people who have inflicted great evil on the Bogojevci family, in Podujevo, are all convicted before Serbian courts, all sentenced to long-standing prison sentences, before Serbian courts. My question, Mr. Cambery, is for you and Kurti, who you quoted on many occasions, not suggesting that you quote him, my question to you is where today are the murderers of Alexander, George, Radomana, their father and mother? Convicted? The accused? Where are they? Of course, there's no justice for Serbian victims, there won't be any. I only took this one example to show you what it looks like when you see only one side of the medal, and when you don't want to hear the other apartment. That's what it looks like in Brussels, when you tell them about missing persons, they tell you, so Veljko Odalovic is Gering and Goebbels. That's what I'm about to tell you, except for the fact that I said that this gentleman just reminded me of Goebbels, who was talking about Gerling and Goebbels, I also added that, which I don't think was wise, and the next thing I knew was true, maybe it wasn't wise. Then I reminded them that you could not speak in my presence about Gering and Goebbels, because under Gering and Goebbels more Serbs were killed than all other members of all other nations, in the former Yugoslavia, together and unlike some others, Serbs had been enemies of Gering and Goebbels since the start of the conflict with Nazi Germany, and therefore paid the highest price. Also under a German boot, occupation but also under a Ustasha boot in an independent state of Croatia, and under a ballistic movement in Kosovo, specially formed since 1943, Baliko Batar. So, and you were then, or at that time these people were the main allies, just Gerling and Goebbels, to bring it up to us. That we don't go back so much to the past, that we go back to what you like to talk about, because I know everyone's watching what they're going to tell you, because from 50 embassies, there's going to be objections to every word I say, no matter how true it is. The point is that Mr. Kamberi was just before – Serbia was killing children. He did not say – Jovan Jovanovic, Petar Petrovic, Zoran Zoranovic, quote him, he said "Serbia was killing children". It is as if when someone from Montenegro told you, no, no, it is not about the people, it is not about the Serbs, but it is about the individuals, and when you ask them which individual you have led, we are not any, but what are the Serbs doing? Because they want textbooks, to get into history books, to get into everything that Serbia was killing children, not criminals, criminals that we condemned ourselves, had enough power that they never had and would never have the strength, but we did it because Serbia and the Serbian people did it. You're talking about apartheid, the apartheid in which Serbs disappeared, in apartheid at which time the "bottle in anus" of Serb returnees represented a merciful and godly act, from Djordja Martinovic to many others, but the stupid Serbs never could complain, never had to make a sacrifice of themselves, unlike those who did it all the time. [[Applause]] When did you hear from us something bad about Albanians? I don't think we're a better people in anything than Albanians, I don't think I'm in anything better than you, and I should have more rights than you, in anything. I'm just asking you that when you tell us about the inclusion of Albanians in state authorities and institutions, why did you throw out all the Serbs in Bujanovac and Presevo? What are all Serbs throwing out, not where there are 3% or 4%, you're asking us, and you're not 1%, in that territory where you consider Serbia? You have kicked 40% of the people out of the government in Bujanovac, you have no Serb in power in Bujanovac, because you are disgusted by the Serbian flag and the presence of a Serbian man in the Bujanovac municipality building. And you're going to give us a lecture on how we should treat each other? Well, we're being fair and fair. Tell the people how many Albanian police officers you have, and how many assistants do you have in the Municipal Assembly that they are Serbs? How many council members do you have that are Serbs, out of those 40%? Zero. Why don't you tell the ambassadors, but whatever it is you say against the Serbs, whatever it is you say against the Serbian state, then you find those jerks in our house who will say, in, but he told him well. The Serbian state's problem is dictatorship. Yes, it is, and you've got democracy flourishing in the heavens. It's a miracle what democracy is like. Well, you say Nebojsa Pavkovic was sentenced to 22 years. Now you can condemn him for another 22 years. I see that a man will be prosecuted for the same act, sued and tried in front of another court. There are no legal formulas, no legal procedures, no legal principles anymore. Well, you can. But Pavkovic did not kill the Šutakovic family, nor Alexander, nor Djordja, nor Radomana, these innocent children. Who killed them, Mr. Cambery? Who? Why didn't you find out? For not condemning them, as we condemned those who killed members of the Bogojevci family and were horrified by that crime, it's not hard for me to say. Do you see the difference between us? You're telling us about Rack, thinking I can't say, since you filed criminal charges, lawsuits against me, I don't know what you're talking about, because that's how you think you scare every Serb? That's how you scared the Todosijevic family. Is Ivan here? He's here. It's that wonderful man upstairs that everyone will tell you is a fantastic host from northern Kosovo. He told me what he thought of Rack. Then you started the chase, then one verdict, then another verdict. Ask him how many times we talked? He doesn't know where the family's gonna go, he doesn't know how the family's gonna look at the moment of arrest, harassment and everything else because he thinks differently from you. You here, thank God, you can say whatever you want and I will always fight for your right to say whatever you want, because I think we have enough arguments to answer you and that we always advocate your freedom of speech and your full freedom, both as members of the national minority and as a citizen of this country. I think it is a very important difference in what is happening in Belgrade and what is happening in Pristina. You're saying we've responded to an offer on the Declaration of Peace with a military exercise. First, we have scheduled a month and a half earlier, and the offer on the peace declaration is no offer on the declaration, on the preservation of peace and non-aggression, because it is made only between sovereign states. And you understood that well. It wasn't he who dictated to you, in part the text, who stood up for no peace at all, and he was not at all at peace. Not at all. Peace was not in his subconscious either, on the contrary. The only thing to him was how he would humiliate Serbia and how some trick would sell to international representatives, so he could repeat that he is to God for peace, and Serbia is not. Serbia is for peace, but Serbia does not recognise Kosovo as an independent state, and you have to get used to that fact, especially the fact that I will not apologize to you, to you, to international representatives, and at least to Kurti, Osmani or anyone else coming from Pristina. About pasivisation, I would like to talk about the tanned and I would ask Minister Obradovic to schedule, one time a special session in the next two or three months, to see just what kind of fraud people who have triple citizenship used to preserve, to God's sake, some rights, not only to preserve, but also to usurp rights that they have not, because they have never lived, or have not lived for 30, 40, 50, 60 years at certain addresses, just so they can ask for something from the state of Serbia, especially in the bear municipality. Just so you can see the evidence, we'll go by name. Just to see what's true and what's the point, because they go to the embassies like this, they go to the world, so the Serbs cut our number and so on. You listen regularly. Well, yes, the Presevo Valley covers Bear. You're wondering, where the hell is that in Bear, what's that? I went to Medvedje 20 times, tried every village, every village to visit. Where do so many Albanians live in Medvedja? And when you get real numbers, you realize that there are very few Albanians living in the bear who have all the rights, we respect them, they always enter the government, they participate in everything they need to participate, even though it's not even to tell you how small a number. Eight times and nine times less than Serbs in Bujanovac, proportionally, and in absolute numbers 25 to 30 times less. Well, Serbs in Bujanovac can be without authority, and Albanians in Medvedja do not have to be without authority. Whenever our own people throw them out of power, as was the last time, I'd say - you can't do that, I'm asking you to change it, and so on, because we have to make sure that they're represented properly. You're saying we're in favour of a national state. We don't stand for one national state at all. We think, Mr. Camberi, that all the people who belong to other religions, other peoples are our wealth, that our diversity is our wealth, that what you can say in this way is our wealth, that this is the image and opportunity of our democracy, that we have the closest relations with the Hungarians who have the most numerous national community in the territory of the Republic of Serbia after Serbia, I am very happy and happy about it. Do we want further better relations with Bosniaks? Yes, we do, and that's why we don't allow ourselves a word of insult or anything we do, understanding the good and their emotions and everything they face, but we don't want to persecute you as many Serbs do in KIM, we want you to stay here forever, and you and your children, your family, and to build a normal future together. I'll only end with an answer, since you're done with it, and that's all Serbia is tired of. I don't know what someone's tired of or not, sometimes I feel tired myself, but it's just a moment and it's physical fatigue, and Serbia to be tired of Kosovo will never be, Serbia can be tired of the wrong works, Serbia can be tired of its own impotence, Serbia is tired of being courteous in ethnic politics, Serbia is also tired of the boast and ossion of politics, but Serbia will never, I assure you, will not be tired of its people in Kosovo and Metohija, nor of Kosovo and Metohija. If you think we're tired of my answer, it's just that we seem tired, but it shows that we're wrong, the first me, that I haven't shown enough energy and enthusiasm, you'll see it much more, much more in preserving the interests of our people in Kosovo and Metohija and living Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7699	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7700	Thank you. Last night, I accidentally saw a graphite on the wall of a building in Belgrade, a quote from George Orwell saying - Freedom is right to tell others what they don't want to hear," and don't deny it. Mr. President, I didn't mention any Albanians in my speech, I didn't quote, I quoted Dimitri Tucovic, I quoted Bogdan Bogdanovic, and I'll quote him with Bogdan Bogdanovic, and I think you'll understand what my goal is. He says in an interview: "It is our national interest to be friends with you Albanians and to keep that part of the Serb population in Kosovo if they want to live there. "You answered everything, you just didn't answer my question about the Panda case." You said someone dictated my speeches. So you're thinking stereotypes about Albanians, too. Saranda Bogovci was in Belgrade free. Well, what was I supposed to do? Kill her too? Well, I don't think that's an excuse if she was free in Belgrade. You say there are 10 Serb victims' locations in Kosovo. Well, you've been talking to the authorities in Kosovo for 10 years. How do you see me here - as an Albanian from Kosovo, as a representative of the Kosovo authorities or as a national MP in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and as a representative of the Albanian national minority living in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji and as president of an independent party? I think that address is wrong for you if you personally referred it to me. You're saying we kicked the Serbs out of the Bujanovac? Well, with this process of destroying multiethnicity, the principle that was introduced in 2002, you, the SNS, were on your way to Bear. In 2018, you completely kicked the Albanians out. (President: Time.) Just one more sentence. The difference between us, Mr. President, is that at the time those crimes were committed you were a minister, and I wasn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7701	The President of the Republic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7702	I don't mind, I'll just say it one more time. I understand, this is what he meant to say that I'm a criminal and, as you can see, I don't want to hide those words and it's just telling you... They know, of course, that I didn't commit any crime. They know I didn't even participate in any of this type of events in Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, happiness, however you turn. But that only tells you that they will always blame every Serb. It's just a confirmation of everything I've been saying all these days. They can't defend themselves, and when you look at forums in the region everywhere what the main conclusion is when they say -- imagine, Vukic said something against some resolution, imagine, Vukic disagreed with that and that resolution, the main comment is -- it's not worth it to you Serbs, you'll be genocide for the next 30, 50, 100 and 200 years. Now, that's the conclusion. You're saying we threw people out in Bear? Why don't you tell people how many Albanians there are to live in Medvedji, not to tell them thousands, but to tell them hundreds. How many Serbs in Bujanovac have you thrown out of power? You don't even think to talk. You can't even think of talking about important projects from Bujanovska Banja, "Gumoplastics" to everything else. You're talking about graphite. I don't know where you saw that graphite in Belgrade, but I'm glad and it's good that Belgrade is one cosmopolitan city in which everyone is welcome and that everyone feels good, and now I'm going to show you which graphite I saw, though not live, because I wouldn't survive, and it's about Pristina. This is the graphite in Pristina that writes – Jesus hates Serbs, written on only one of the usual protests, and again used by the chief negotiator, or Prime Minister of the provisional institutions in Pristina Albin Kurti in Brussels, saying that it is a great provocation when Serbs hold liturgy in churches built on land given to them by Slobodan Milosevic. Now, do you have to show me these graphs on any of the mosques either in Bujanovac, Presevo or in northern Kosovo or in the south of Kosovo where Serbs of the Syrian parish or central Kosovo live anywhere? There's no such thing. You're telling me what was supposed to happen to Saranda the Bogojevci? Nothing. But the Sutakovics couldn't even go to Pristina, they were all killed. Why didn't you tell people who saved Saranda's life because they don't know people? And what would they have to know? I need to know these details because I negotiate every day and every week at my own admission. So, not according to my evidence and my papers, it's hard for you to say -- well, the Serb army. The Serbian military saved their lives according to an official statement made by her why they faced these gangs of our people who also participated in evilmaking. As long as you keep that in mind. You compare it to the Sutakovic family case? And who do you want Radoman to call? And where does Alexander go? Where would George go? Who do they tell their story to? We happened to find them after so much insistence. You say - how much do we negotiate? Well, now I'm going to tell you, when you're pulling my tongue, what Bislimi said, and you, Nikola, correct me if I don't say any of the exact words. When I said let's open those tombs or places that we suspect are tombs, to solve the question of missing persons, you know what we got the answer to Bislimi and we opened 21 pits. In four, we found the remains of the killed Albanians, and we were asked to open 21 and 21. The last one is in the town of Kizhjak, where 11 bodies were found. Two of us cross-referenced the DNA, and we know who killed the Albanians, and we're giving the bodies to the families of the murdered. Do you know what the answer was to Bislimi? Bislimi jumped as a sharp and said when they asked him, because Borreli said this was a great idea, this is important to do, to trust one another, to open those places, to get their parents, children, to bring back their children, parents, brothers, he said - can't be dug up in Kosovo. And why can't it be excavated in Kosovo? Well, it cannot be excavated in Kosovo because the excavation act itself will use Serbia to show that Albanians have committed crimes. I said that – and otherwise you didn't, just as I did today, answer Mr. Camberi, because in only one place we thought there were the least killed, we found seven of them, and from that the whole family buried, three children. For all that Mr. Cambery has told us, we have accused and condemned those who have committed a crime. You see, for one second, I will not justify the people who committed this grave crime, and he will not say, he has no name, nor any of them have the name of those who killed those three beautiful Serbian children, nor are they interested, nor are they looking for anyone, nor will they ever find. It doesn't hurt me, Camberi. I don't hurt the Serbs that Kamberi praises, from Jeremic to I don't know who, I don't care. It pains me that in the international community, read – to the Western public, whatever we say, we will never get attention. Whatever happens, we will never get respect for our victims. No matter how much we show respect for others and no matter how much we do, we must not give up on it. We must continue to show respect for them and their victims. Here, I'm ready, Cambery, to sit down, to see what you lack in power in Medvedja, what is it that you want anywhere in power, you'll get, and you let the Serbs in Bujanovac get into power. There are not many more Albanians in Bujanovac than Serbs. Show us how you want to live with the Serbs, so we can work together. (Shaip Kamberi: There's... Hey, don't do that - there is. There are, but the illegal ones. (Shaip Kamberi: You've got it on your desk...) There are those... Come on, I don't want to talk. The point is... Yes, I have a request on the table for Cambery to be minister. Imagine that we have a minister who will tell us that we are a genocide people and we have never done anything to detect crime and everything else, and how do we have to recognise Kosovo every divine day, etc.? In doing so, I offered him to be deputy minister, because I'm counting on him not to get involved in these big issues, but he won't. It's beneath him. He won't. To be clear, I know it's my fault again for your armchair, as well as for Sulji Ugljanin. I know you all well. That's what you tell the people what you want. I know you all well. I know I haven't seen you since yesterday, not since the day before yesterday. I've known you for tens of years, and I know what it is that you want, and all of you here in the Bojievci region are willing to protect yourselves from that side, and in fact it's just power and chair. Here, you can have... You can't have that chair you want, Cambery, you can have someone else, so think carefully and give the Serbs everything you've always asked for. When you show us on your case how much you respect other peoples, believe me, you'll get much more respect from our side, and without it we'll show you more respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7703	Do you want the word again? Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7704	Mr. President, it's not right to talk like that about facts that aren't true. I have been with fellow MPs Nadia Beqiri and Ardend Bajrami at your consultations during your consultations on the formation of a new government and we were the first party to have consultations with you and on your desk we have left you with the demands that the Albanian community must have in order for its rights to be affirmed. No one spoke of names, but if you wanted to know my personal opinion, I would never be a minister in an authoritarian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7705	The President of the Republic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7706	Just one detail. Proud of the fact that you can say such things, especially proud of your democratic capacity and very pleased that you come forward in such a way, and I am particularly happy, when you are already talking about it, and as President of the Republic I did not want to comment on it, I am particularly happy that you cannot praise my democratic capacity, but Jeremy's democratic capacity has been so warmly encouraged, defended. Thank you for that, and I wish you a lot of success in your future work.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7707	Mr. Markovic, you're the only one in the system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7708	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, JS will support the report on the work, on the negotiations that were on Kosovo and Metohija, but I have a proposal at the beginning, Mr. President, to give Camberi a post called Minister of Magic Space Director in the village of Trnovac. Here, it's a good function for the distribution of goods that is deficited everywhere in the world, and in Serbia it's new to be punished. When it comes to the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, we have really fought diplomatically in a formal sense, and this truth slowly comes to light of day. This morning I was on Pink TV and now before me I don't know who said it was - we didn't achieve anything in the negotiations. Well, we've done it. We've economically strengthened, most importantly, and the other thing is that Hashim Thaci is in The Hague. A report he wrote in his book, Dick Marti, and when it comes to the "yellow house" in Albania, and the internal organs trade has shown the truth and we expect that a large number of Kosovo Albanians will be in prison and processed. You know very well, Mr. President, and we also know what is wrong with Serbia – success. That in eight, nine years we have become an economic power in the Balkans in every sense of that word, and especially when this evil has caught the whole world, the crown, that we have had the best prevention and the most vaccine in the offer amongst, I feel free to say, and those powerful EU countries, such as Germany, have even come to people at the beginning of Austria to get vaccinated, come to Serbia, and that Serbia is taking care of every dinar from the budget, and that budget of full citizens, which has not been spent in a way that is visible in the past years, and that each of the citizens of Serbia, who over the salary or already do not know how full the budget, can find out where his money has gone. You never once said that we have had economic terrorism in recent years. Economic terrorism, I may say, is similar to that war terrorism that hit us in 1999 when the NATO pact bombed Serbia, but terrorism in Kosovo by Albanians has been dating for over 30 years. And that everything that happened in Kosovo is the fault of Serbs, not Albanians. Let's not go into any distant history. What happened in 2004, March 17th? The persecution of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, where many houses were burned and 4,000 Serbs expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. And all of this was seen by international representatives and that those main actors were not processed and that the procedure led towards some people was insignificant in that chain of command at all. Over 150,000 people were expelled from Kosovo and Metohija. We have experienced ethnic cleansing, not Albanians, as some want to introduce us all the time. Serbia too had to take care of every Serb, wherever he was, especially in Kosovo and Metohija. We have another terrorism, President, it's political terrorism by some political parties in Serbia from two people most famous in the world, but not for the good, but for the evil they have done to Serbia, which is Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas. They support those who, and not only those in Montenegro, who made the decision that it was genocide in Srebrenica, are constantly doing something against Serbia. He says -- there's freedom of speech, but there's no way freedom of lying that exists at the expense of Serbian citizens, who they want to show all the time. That is why we are late and to join the EU. That is why the European Parliament is constantly giving us some negative estimates, etc., because they lie about Serbia. They lie there's no democracy, there's no freedom. Says the party's name is that billionaire, freedom and justice. What's freedom to tell a cop when he stops you? Do you know who I am? What is freedom, to beat a woman without being prosecuted for it, to threaten to cut off her head? What is justice, not to be prosecuted for all the acts it has done and done so far, and not only to the harm of its family, but to the harm of the citizens of Serbia? We, President, must not watch what individuals from the EU say if someone has wronged the law. And he doesn't want to, we haven't heard them say once – here, we have so much, or I have so much money, I've earned it and so on. What kind of decisions can a man who lives alone in a house, just him and the money and counts the money all the time? What decisions can he make for Serbia, and how can someone who decides the fate of Serbian citizens trust him? I'm thinking about the International Community. They're causing us enormous damage. So now we need the dialogue and international representatives from the European Parliament. We have nothing against it, but what will they determine and what is the actual state, will they show what is reality or what Vuk Jeremic, who financed himself from the embassies of various states and took money, or will they believe what they're saying? Of course, we have to pass a law on how to preserve the identity and national interest of this small Serbia, plagued, who has become an economic power, and we are now a thorn in the eye of those powerful people, especially those who used to be and did old Yugoslavia, such as the SCG, etc., and that every day, instead of bringing investors, we are dealing with the protection of citizens from this vicious disease, we need to prepare to respond to lies, and these lies are disturbing Serbia and leaving Serbia off the European path. Mr. President, you're doing well and I'm not going to defend Serbia very well, but in a formal sense, given who are opposers on the other hand, to assist hohstuplers, thieves, lunatics, criminals from Serbia, it's very difficult to represent the interests of Serbian citizens. Let us ask these other countries, which respect Serbia, do they still have national minorities' rights in some country as they do in Serbia? Do they have in Croatia? They don't. Do they have in Slovenia? No, I don't. In Slovenia, they do not want to accept that Serbs are a national minority. You know very well, and here we are no longer looking for a representative sample, so to speak. The dictionary when you want to get to a number, rather than say – yeah, you belong to that and that nation, you will have the status of that and that, etc. As you said to Mr. Camberi -- that's Serbia. What he's saying and representing the interests of Kosovo and Metohija, he knows he's wrong, but he belongs to that nation, maybe he was sent to speak ill of Serbia, but how much money was spent in the infrastructure in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji, and 40% of Serbs are nowhere, they're nowhere. It is not known if it is worse in Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedji or Milo Djukanovic in Montenegro. You don't know where's up there. We help everyone, everyone who respects the Constitution of this state and the state respects all these citizens. I couldn't see any man to any nation belonging to that he was unhappy, that there was some harassment by some other nations, by most, or by the citizens of Serbia, etc. in Serbia. We, Mr. President, have to fight and exploit the international popularity that Serbia has, and it has never had in the last 50 years. Some say – yeah, well, Germany says it is so she would withdraw recognition of Kosovo and Metohija, so I don't know, France, Italy etc. The one who says that, and these two say that, they have no idea what they're saying. Germany and Angela Merkel gave the green light to come to Serbia by German owners of large companies and employ more than 70,000 workers, Serbian citizens living in this Serbia. If anything were bad, what individuals in Serbia say, well, you know if they came and not just them, the Austrians, the Italians, the Americans started coming and not counting all the countries, even dislocating their factories from European countries, coming to a small country called Serbia, which is on the European path. Why don't we open chapters, 18 chapters are open and standing, not closed? Because of you, I feel free to say that they are traitors of the Serb family. If you hate Vukic, don't hate the whole Serbian people and everyone who lives in Serbia. No one has to love Wolfie. Vukic checks whether he is loved when he goes to the polls and how many votes Ivica Dacic and other political parties, i.e. my coalition SPS and JS, receive. They say there's no opposition in parliament. Wait, is it our fault there's no opposition? You, President, have done something that no one has ever done. In the election year, in the election month you cut from 5% of the censorship to 3% to enter parliament. They didn't go out because they were doing polls and they know they can't become parliamentary parties. Now they blame Serbia's progress, economic power, health care, dinar stability, political stability. That's what the whole world's looking for. That's what investors are looking for, they want to build factories, but where there's safety and that stability, a handful of misery, two people, they can never bring it down. You've been very gentle today when it comes to the subject. We respected everything the international community asked of us, everything, and they delivered everything to The Hague. Where's that five million, five billion euros? They took it and put it in their pockets when it was, only to go to Milosevic, etc. How much money have they got now since we've been in power? They used to make public promises, but now discreetly. But they've got it out of their minds that now you can find out in any bank in the world that someone has money and that you can always find out how much money there is and where the banks cost him money. Serbia is the safest state to keep money. To repeat, the course of the euro is at rest. What did you hide your money, the one surrounded by lunatics, criminals, thieves, liars and thugs? Why did you take the money somewhere else? What? Now he wants him to buy international representatives, how these international representatives will attack Serbia, parliament, dialogue and so on, says those who go to dialogue are, says Vucicevic, Dacics, I don't know whose they are. No, they're Serbs and they're fighting for their rights. These parties that come to dialogue, so they can never be seduced again by two people who have destroyed Serbia. Never, nor can they be their bosses, so that, President, is a huge problem in those international relations. You know it better than I do, and I talk to investors a lot. You and I have opened almost a factory in Jagodina - Fisher. It's one factory that's the fifth-largest economic power in Germany and you heard what the owner of that factory, Professor Fisher, said to you -- that he believes this state. He had an offer to go to three other states, but no, he decided to come to Serbia and said he would bring a large number of factories to Serbia to hire workers. We're going to have a problem -- where are we going to find all these workers to work in these factories? The problem called Kosovo's problem and Metohija will stand. What's good is that you and we who support you, for a compromise, but there's no compromise that I give mine to be yours and that what's mine is no longer mine, and that we keep working and as if we forget that there was a SPC, how much they've knocked down monasteries, churches, etc. Have you seen what the tombstones look like, Mr. Cambery, on Suffocations? It's the day of the dead. Shame on you! Instead of apologising to the Serbian people, you're tearing down the tombstones of Serbia and you want to enter UNESCO and you say -- lobbying for Albanians not to enter. Those are Serbian interests. To keep quiet when you lobbyed and bought to recognise an independent Kosovo state that was not informed at that time what was happening in Serbia and why were we bombed and why was NATO aggression? Because of Rack? Because Racak went into some kind of indictment? It's not. What now? Nothing, like it wasn't even collateral damage. How do we get out of that collateral damage? The Italian soldiers sued, though NATO members are the pact, because the number of deaths from cancers has increased, and this is happening in Serbia, and not only is it happening that the number of deaths from cancers has been increased, but then the girls in 1999, today the mothers, can't have children, they can't give birth because of bombs that have been dropped on Serbia with poor uranium. It is a huge evil that has been done over Serbia. We must, as we say -- move on, we will not forget it, but the interest of Serbian citizens and Serbia's future never to fight again and to support such a policy. They say, "Here you are armed, you are afraid of Albanians." Well, wait, we're scaring the Albanians, and they formed the Kosovo Security Force, and there's no such thing as an act? What is it, an army? And we wait with the slingshots that they left us before and that the next day our Serbs are attacked and these people who represent the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, that some "Storm" happen again, etc. That doesn't mean Serbia will be at war. That's how I figured it out, like a Marine man living in Pomorava County. Serbia is no longer what it used to be. Serbia is no longer dependent on donations, to give me money to listen to you or to transfer me to my jury account, to some embassy, so when you go to Brussels or I don't know where, you say – don't ask us to recognise Kosovo now, let us finish the elections. You said in America – take off the 10th point that Serbia must recognise an independent Kosovo. You know when they would do that? Never. Never in my life. Please give a round of applause for taking down the 10th point our president asked for. Give it up, boys. These, Mr. President, yours only applaud when you look at them, and this is a common interest. The People's Messenger throws it away. I'm giving half a minute to this time-telling guy, so let's keep him going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7709	The word is Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7710	Dear President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected representatives of the Serbian people from Kosovo and Metohija, this is the eighth time in 14 years since I have had the opportunity to speak in this National Assembly on Kosovo and Metohija. There is one big difference regarding the meetings on Kosovo and Metohija until 2012 and from 2012. By 2012, we had motions for resolutions, a declaration which, of course, was always adopted by a large majority, but which texts were not in line with the real state of things. In those discussions, I always talked about the clarity of what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says. The president of the Republic is known to swear an oath, but again, the authorities of the Republic of Serbia have had no authority in the area of Kosovo and Metohija since 1999. Since 2012, since the government changed, since Ivica Dacic was Prime Minister and you, these sessions on Kosovo and Metohija are much more realistic because they are telling the truth. By 2012, the government had not told the truth about Kosovo and Metohija. Today, Mr. President of the Republic, you're talking about having to talk about reality, you have to talk about the future. You said we didn't need a frozen conflict. And that conflict has long been frozen. You said the attitude of the Western forces wouldn't change. You said a compromise solution was only possible. We are in the SVM, and I think I can say on behalf of the duchy Hungarians, generally very grateful to you for approaching this issue in such a way not only today, but also here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in all your speeches and interviews and in the negotiations in Brussels, Washington and elsewhere where Kosovo and Metohija are concerned. If one sentence should only be spoken about this topic, then I would say the following – please negotiate in a way that talks, peace, stability and compromise have no alternative. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija is extremely complex. I won't talk about it for the first time in this National Assembly, I know you know perfectly well, but I will say for the citizens of Serbia who may not know, which is understandable what they don't know because many don't even know in Hungary. We Vojvodina Hungarians understand Serbs in the best way and understand best what Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have been going through for decades. It's 101 years from the Triangular Peace Pact. Then Hungary lost two-thirds of its territory, one-third of its population and 3.3 million people of Hungary's nationality woke up in another country, in the Kingdom of SHS, in Czechoslovakia, Romania. Even part of Hungary's then joined Austria, which, I would say, is a joke of history, but that's true. Of course, after 101 years, we do not question borders in Europe, but I am only telling you because we fully understand what the Serbian people are going through. That is why I will tell you the following – support in the economic, financial, moral and any other sense of the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. That doesn't bother us. For many, it bothers Serbia, many political parties who are headed by Serbs, whose membership are Serbs. We, the duchy Hungarians, do not mind and should support Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija financially, as Hungary supports us. It's called responsible national policy. You said there are currently over 95,000 Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You also said that there were 120,000 more of them 22, 23 years ago. I think that information speaks a lot. We are interested in creating conditions for members of the Serb people to remain in their KIM hearths and therefore should be given any support that will help. Also, some very important projects are being implemented, both local and regional, in Vojvodina. The railway will be built again between Subotica and Segedin. We have talked about this project for 25 years, and we have managed to agree with you on the strategic importance of this project for the Republic of Serbia. The construction of this railroad, which I hope will be completed by September next year, will allow for the economic boom of Subotica and the region. This will lead to great mobility, and once again what history teaches us about -- where the railroad passes, where rail infrastructure develops, there is prosperity, there is economic power. We see the future in this, because it will allow people in Subotica and about Subotica to stay in Serbia, to stay in their villages, and to, say, study or work in Segedin and to return home every day, because that path will only take 40 minutes or less. A railway is being built between Budapest and Belgrade. The funds of the Republic of Serbia are being built on Palic and other municipalities in Vojvodina. I think it's important to say that, too, because I've talked about it a little while ago that we don't mind, quite the opposite, financing Serbian projects at KIM. I can say that because it is a responsible national policy, but also because it is invested in other projects that I was talking about earlier. I'll give you one more piece of information. I'm sure you do, but many don't. After the construction of the railway between Saturday and Segedin, the railway between Subotica and Baja will be built. That railroad existed hundreds of years ago. And you know why that railroad went missing, which is why the tracks are gone. But we're going to rebuild it now. Because of those who don't know, that railroad is gone because of the Triannian Peace Pact. Since such concentration circles were railways on the territory of then Hungary and all the railways that led at the time and in the present time on the territory of some other country were destroyed. So now we're doing something together that no one has worked on in the past hundred years, and I think it's extremely important and very important. All this is possible only if there is peace, stability, and this will be if talks with Pristina are to be successfully completed, and therefore we give you full support. We absolutely appreciate the perseverance you prove every time in these negotiations, conversations. Although you are pessimistic about reaching a compromise solution, which is understandable, given the circumstances, we hope that such a compromise solution will still come. In all these matters, as you have so far, you can count on the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and the duchy Hungarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7711	Thank you. The word is Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7712	Thank you, Vice President. Dear President of the Republic, respected ministers, respected directors of the KIM office, respected representatives of Serbs with KIM, we held a similar debate in parliament two years ago when we talk about KIM. Today when we talk about the Report concerning the negotiations and the Report of the Committee on KIM, we can freely say that after some time we are in this situation, as if we were standing in front of the mirror again, looking at ourselves and seeing reality, and we are obliged to face the truth over and over again, no matter how painful or encouraging it is. It is our willingness today to hear differing opinions, different attitudes, political ideas, that shows how mature we are as a society. When we talk about the Kosovo issue, we must first ask ourselves, and when we look from a historical one distance, did we always know what we wanted? If we make one historic parallel, since the Prizren League, the answer is clear -- Albanians have always had a clear goal. We haven't been sure of what we want since those days. We knew what we didn't want. During that time, I can say a hundred years and more, Albanians made a strategy, drew their goals, sought support in the international community. I think our policy is different now. Not that I think, but I'm sure. Now we have one clearer picture, a clearer policy. And that's exactly why we need unity. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia provides full support for both the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia to come together for the best solutions. And it's not just declarative support, it's sincere support. Rarely where in the world, historical and ethnic principles are so conflicting, both sharp and direct as KIM. When we say the word - Kosovo, with us Serbs, it causes the feeling that it is the core and source of our national identity, in Albanians it is synonym for their house, because they are aware that KIM is mostly the majority Albanian population. Negotiations use different arguments. Sometimes historically, they don't have such strong power. Ethnic principles can often be dangerous because they leave the possibility of a smoldering conflict. Therefore, all other factors, both territorial-political, cultural and historical and foreign-political, must be taken into account in the search for a solution. After all, the Kosovo issue has been said to be a "sui generis" problem for over a decade. And if that's what they say, then on that trail we have to look for a solution. It's not all that black and white, so the solution for KiM has to be special, it has to be specific. Since the start of the SFRJ crisis, many solutions have been to resolve the Kosovo node since the collapse of the country, and each seems to have been more unfavorable for Serbia than the previous one. So from the proposal for autonomy, within the Republic of Serbia, we came to Rambuje, survived the bombing, had Marty Ahtisaari's plan and came to self-proclaimed independence. On the other hand, any new negotiator on the Albanian side was more rigid, more radical. At first, it was Azem Vlasi, later Ibrahim Rugova. Let us not forget that for a time complete control came into the hands of the former KLA commanders, Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj. Now these negotiations are being conducted by Albin Kurti. You know, you said yourself that at this point he seems the most rigid of all the previous ones, but we have to ask ourselves sometimes how we've been acting in the past. It seems we've been staring at reality, we've lost time, we've lost the potential to start the initiative ourselves, to make ourselves a better position. That's why it's important that we take a step now. Now we're doing things differently, now we're doing things more rationally. We face the truth, we respect reality. We're dealing with problems, and I'm sure we'll find a satisfactory solution. When we talk about all this, we have to take all the circumstances from modern Serbian history starting with the Kumanovo Battle in October 1912 when the old Serbia was symbolically released, until the Kumanovo Agreement in 1999 when international forces from the peacekeeping mission entered Kosovo and Metohija. Back to the old is unrealistic. We can simply ask the question – would the country where 1.5 million Albanians boycott their institutions and despise the state they live in be sustainable? The answer is, he can't. On the other hand, can you do the so-called. Kosovo to become a credible international subjectivity without agreement with Serbia, without Russia, without China as permanent members of the Security Council? The same is the answer – it cannot. Obviously, there are major differences in negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina and they are not since yesterday. There is an insurmountable gap between our minimum that we agree to and their maximum that they seek. Pristina Albanians do not agree to anything less than independence. We on the other hand can talk, and we are open to talking about everything except independence. It seems that these starting positions haven't changed for a pedal in two decades. It is certain that the state of the frozen conflict does not correspond to any of the others in this situation. That's what's holding each other back. Brake and economic development, blocking the European path, holding up modernization. The question is, who gets delayed? Whose ally is time? If negotiations are stalled indefinitely without concrete solutions, in principle – go, stop, we may look at some kind of crawling independence in front of our eyes, and we are helpless to do anything and to fight for something concrete. You, President, spoke earlier and presented data on the structure of the population in Kosovo and Metohija. That data is worrying. It is even more worrying that if we take the digitron into our hands and look at the parameters, look at the estimates of birth, the migration, we don't have to look 50 years ahead, it's enough to look at 20 years, and we'll see how the population will be in Kosovo. The frozen conflict slows down our European integration as well. We are witnessing that our EU accession process has been tied back for years to progress in negotiations with Pristina. On the other hand, all countries in the EU's environment see it as the only way to get all of us out of one vicious circle of the past that marked conflict and conflict. We must not interfere with the idea that any unresolved conflict, any unresolved question, is a potential danger. At this point, we don't fit any sign of instability. At least it suits us. If we look at investments in the region, we will see that the largest number is directed at Serbia. It doesn't answer to anyone else. Any kind of instability, i.e. a violation of legal-political stability, could endanger further economic development, wavering serious foreign companies to operate on our market. Let's not forget that Albin Kurti, after winning the previous elections, immediately said negotiations with Belgrade are not at the top of the list of priorities for him. It may have been a surprise for everyone, but apparently there's a reason for that kind of indifference. Unfortunately, we can hear with us that most, that is, a good part of the public advocates a frozen conflict, and that is certainly another daunting circumstance when negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija are being held. We can always, and justifiably, ask ourselves, did the international community set out in the best way towards this problem? It is obvious that the Kosovo issue is no longer a central issue dealing with Brussels. They have their problems, there are other problems in Europe, and the Brussels administration is also busy with these problems. They seem to be more concerned with technical matters than they are with achieving a comprehensive and comprehensive solution. We presented in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia a few years ago some idea of how a solution to the Kosovo problem should take place. The president of our party, Rasim Ljajic, also made the proposal public. He means solving problems in three stages, right in stages where one follows the other. We believe that in the first phase, all barriers related to the economy, to trade should be removed, to allow free flow of goods, people, capital, without any administrative restrictions. At that time, we also proposed the formation of some kind of free economic zone that would be in the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija where it would be freely invested without any barriers both by central Serbia and from the territory south of Ibra. The goal is for such economic co-operation to create a favourable climate to address other problems, other political issues. Economic issues will not solve all problems, it will not lead to a comprehensive agreement. We don't get carried away with it, and we're aware of it, but we think it's at least one initial step, that it's important to make initial success, because then it encourages, it creates a positive climate to get into further conversations. The second phase of the negotiations would mean resolving the status of Serbian property in Kosovo and Metohija, protecting the cultural heritage of churches and monasteries and forming a community of Serb municipalities. Data from the Republic Geodetic Institute say the property owned by the Republic of Serbia is 29%, almost a third of the total land in Kosovo and Metohija. The value of real estate is higher and is estimated to be tens of millions of euros. We must not forget the fact that through the Federation Fund for Loaning underdeveloped areas and underdeveloped provinces from 1966 to 1990, more than $4.37 billion was invested in Kosovo and Metohija, of which Serbia's participation was more than a third. There is certainly a significant amount of private property to be returned to the owners or compensated by cash compensation and it is up to us to provide valid documentation for each facility, for each parcel to use as an argument in the negotiations. No less important, perhaps more important, protection of cultural heritage, protection of churches, protection of monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija. When we talk about our cultural heritage, we can say that it is not just ours, it has so much value to be considered a European cultural heritage, but unfortunately lately we see a tendency that institutions in Pristina tend to take on our cultural heritage and impose a new term – Kosovo heritage. The world bang and all international organisations confirm that the heritage belongs to the people and to the state, and not to the territory. This is also clearly shown in UNESCO reports. It is therefore important to ensure special protection of monasteries, churches, or all objects belonging to the Serbian Orthodox Church, to guarantee the safety of the clergy, to find a mechanism that will be long-term, to stop the construction of industrial plants and to stop the urbanization of land around churches and monasteries. On the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, there is a characteristic existence of a deeply divided society. The Serbian and other non-Albanian populations are disappearing, mostly living in enclaves when I speak of territory south of Ibra. Models must be sought that provide both individual and collective rights for people to decide on their own issues. It is therefore important that we continue to insist on forming a community of Serb municipalities. After all, it is also part of the Brussels Agreement and it is certain that the international community is responsible for why eight years after the signing of the Brussels Agreement, no community of municipalities has been formed. It is up to us to insist on it, because the impression is that now four municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija stand somewhere like a sorceress in heaven or on earth. Finally, the third phase I was talking about concerns the membership of Pristina institutions in international organisations. We have achieved more success so far, we have prevented the membership of many of their institutions in international organisations, but also the fact that they have broken through certain barriers with their perseverance, that they have succeeded in joining certain cultural, sports and political organisations. Here we might have to ask ourselves if we should have a different approach, see what our interest is, so where we're not threatened to talk about it, to have concrete benefits of it. Finally, when these specific issues are resolved in practice, a normalisation agreement should also be signed, it is also necessary to consider a certain transitional period for these solutions to be implemented, to be implemented in practice, because the experience of the Brussels Agreement teaches us this. We are also aware that it is impossible to make a comprehensive agreement without the presence of major forces, without the United States, without the EU, without Russia. When we talk about all this, we don't think this is an ideal solution, there's no ideal solution. This isn't even a fair solution. Let's try to find the least unfair solution. We need to move things from a dead end, to make a concrete success, every concrete success is a better motivation to continue to negotiate and every concrete success, as is the Brussels Agreement, as is the Washington Agreement, encourages a further flow of talks. Dear People's MPs, when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija, we must look to the future. There's always a Kosovo myth above us. That myth is deeply rooted in the collective consciousness of our people. I didn't want to talk about him. That myth is eternal. As once a star of leadership and as this myth has preserved our national identity and contributed to the restoration of statehood, we must not allow the myth to keep us from moving forward in the future, it is always there to warn us and remind us, it is certain. There is no lasting or long-term peace without the agreement of both sides. Not everyone can get everything. It's not a win that we get everything and Pristina loses everything. And vice versa. Victory is peace, victory is satisfied with people living in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7713	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Stefan Krkobiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7714	Dear Vice-President Orlic, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Directors of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and, above all, the Honorable President Aleksandra Vukicu, a report that is firstly well prepared for us, and that is his basic note that is real. That's the most important thing for us. What I would touch is the property of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. The concept of property or property is understood by everyone in the world, and in particular by the countries of the West, among them by those who have recognised Kosovo's self-proclaimed independence. And when it comes to the property issue in Kosovo and Metohija, the right to international and domestic justice and arguments is on the side of the Serbian state. That is why the issue of property of natural and material wealth in Kosovo and Metohija on our part must be run for top priority, when it comes to the Brussels dialogue agenda of Belgrade and Pristina, as one of the most important conditions of ours to bring not only some result, but also to continue at all. We believe that, in the follow-up of negotiations with representatives of the provisional Pristina institutions, our red line should be just a discussion on the protection and guarantees of the inalienable property of our state, our businesses, the Serbian Orthodox Church and all Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija whose value counts in hundreds of billions of euros. And right away, we are showing no bias, no concern only for Serbian property, the property of our countrymen in the southern province of Serbia, but we are taking care of all our citizens and fellow citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija and all the other religious communities whose property has also been threatened by a wild illegal transition since 1999. It is now of paramount importance that the start and end of all further serious negotiations on the future of the southern Serbian province and the condition of all conditions be achieved in our country first among all political and social actors. No political entity has any authority, either from the opposition, and then in the second phase for this element of our negotiating strategy, I will ask and support first of all those major world powers that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija, and then in the Western capitals which, despite the act of recognition of Kosovo in their countries, are considered one of the sacred rules of survival of these democratic systems, including the states themselves. The task of all of us from the government and from the opposition is that we also internationally verify what the 1999 Catastre says before NATO bombing, which is that at least 58% of the land, i.e. the territory of Kosovo and Metohija owned by the Republic of Serbia, would dramatically improve our negotiating position in potential status negotiations. Temporary authorities in Pristina are trying to change this, with original documents backed, legal and factual status. In addition to the indisputable Serbian property, the Republic of Serbia has invested more than $17 billion in travel, energy and telecommunications infrastructure in the last half century, and the reason Pristina's goal of taking the territory of the Serbian southern province and making it a false state in the first phase, and later Albania's big one. Only currently available mineral findings in Kosovo, according to World Bank experts, amount to as much as 13.5 billion euros, and the value of potential sites, according to the same sources, measures hundreds of billions. That Kosovo and Metohija is an inalienable part of Serbian territory also proves that Serbia returns close to a billion euros in debts spent over the previous decades in the development of KIM and will return them until 2041, when the last commitment towards foreign creditors, such as the World Bank and the Paris Club of Trustees, the London Club and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe comes. The most picturesque example of the way Pristina authorities are trying to banish and this small Serb in Kosovo is an attempt to kidnap Trepce and the Brezovic ski centre. The Brezovica Ski Centre owns 300 hectares of land, three hotels, four restaurants, several cableways, which employs 178 Serbs from Brezovica, Strpc and surrounding villages in this southern Serbian enclave. The sale, apart from the usurpation of Serbian property in Kosovo and Metohija, would also cause a change in the ethnic structure of the region and re-encourage the new wave of emigration of our countrymen, which has been halted in recent years by the great efforts of the Serbian state. In addition to the property that was literally taken from the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo and Metohija, and a large part of what remained was usurped by local Albanians and temporary Pristina authorities, so the undisputed ownership of the Serbian Orthodox Church must be one of our red lines under which we should not go to Brussels negotiations. When we protect the Serb village, we protect the villages of Kosovo and Metohija, and only the united can survive. Every invested dinar in cooperatives means the survival of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and the preservation of Serbian churches and monasteries. All religious communities are interested in the development of cooperative society. The best example is the involvement of prominent Archbishop Stanislav Hotchevar on the national team for the rebirth of Serbia's village. We all know the Vatican didn't confess to the so-called. the state of Kosovo. The Catholic Church in our country has expressed its clear readiness to participate in a farming cooperative mission aimed at all Serbian villages, regardless of religious membership. It is also the basic principle of cooperativeism, neutrality, racial, religious and political. The national team for the rebirth of Serbia's village was primarily formed thanks to the strong support of our esteemed President Aleksandr Vukic, the Academy Committee for the Village of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, as well as the summits of the Orthodox and Catholic Church and the Islamic community in our country. We do not give up any villages in Vojvodina, central Serbia, but neither in Kosovo nor Metohija. We defend Kosovo and Metohija with deeds, but also with words. Therefore, special responsibility is given to current, former and future state officials who have to think carefully about all the possible consequences of the spoken one, telling the relevant information to the public, so as not to give cause to the enemies of Serbia and the Serbian people to further discredit and destroy our state and national unity. Only a strong and complex Serbia can be prepared to protect its state sovereignty and territorial integrity. Accordingly, we should act and work, because otherwise all those who do not wish well for Serbia and our people, looking for the slightest mistake of ours to give us a new blow. We will always be ready, we will fight, and we will never give up 15% of Serbian territory, nor agree to kidnap and take property from the citizens of the SPC and the state of Serbia. In the end, I would first of all like to thank the President of the Republic for its efforts, for its work, for the struggle for the Republic of Serbia, for the people of Kosovo is here among us. I want to say, as a representative of the younger generation, that Aleksandar Vukic is a man who has given young people hope and what is said and what we can say, a chance, and that is what they like to say in English – straight for surprise, a chance to fight. He made it possible for young people. Let's invite those young people who are currently outside Serbia and who are working there to return to Serbia, to invest their knowledge and their capital here and to create better Serbia together with us. I invite all these young people, educated and one Natasha from Venice, and Peter from Paris, back here, here's your country, you have the first time at the head of a man who's willing to fight equally for everyone. Cheers. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7715	Thank you. The word is made by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try briefly to look back on what Dragan Markovic, Mr Pastor, Branimir Jovanovic and Mr Krkobibic spoke about. In fact, if you'll excuse me, I'm afraid our situation is not as good as sometimes we want to introduce it, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. I'll look right back at you, Stefan. An inspired speech, full of good intentions, but when you read in Wikipedia that we have 58% of the property in Kosovo and Metohija, it is simply not true, especially not according to what the West recognises as property. For people to understand, it was divided, so it was said that 29% is state property, 14% social property, 15% church and private property, and that it should belong to Serbs. When we started talking about the property, we quickly interrupted them, because we stuck to certain principles. The West recognizes the following principle, I want you to know, therefore, that we don't have a lot of assets that the West will accept. In fact, people from Kosovo and Metohija know that, of course, we don't have that much property and it wouldn't be realistic if you had 6% of the population, and you expect to have that percentage of the property. The fact is that they have made a decision to accept, God will know it by what rule, that everything that was state property, that de facto crosses, unless it is excluded by any special law or special individual act, and not by general act, therefore, that it belongs to so-called. the state of Kosovo. As far as social property is concerned, it is 14% of the total assets that existed in Kosovo and Metohija. She's mostly already privatized. Generally, Albanians are there, foreigners and in very few cases, Serbs. First of all, in northern Kosovo and Metohija. As far as church property is concerned, it's not nearly 15% and private, but they don't allow us to keep that property, nor to be uncut, so that it has to be in accordance with the principles that the West has declared. They are for today, as well as what Mr. Jovanovic spoke about, on the issue of cultural heritage, our heritage, so today is a strange man, Mayor of Decana or President of the Decani Municipality who has almost announced 100% Albanian construction of the monastery street, contrary to all the rules, to the Law of Zones, to decisions, to executive decisions in which it is said that it is possible to build only a local road and a bypass, again announced the construction of that monastery street We are afraid that it is an attempt at a new attack on the High Decani monastery and, in particular, what I say, that man is very strange, but those who support him in that intention, and we are sitting in Pristina and we really trust in the EU and Western forces to help us on this issue, if you want to help us and the United States to stop this attack from the very much on the monastery himself, at the High Decane. Mr Jovanovic, when you spoke about the free flow of goods, the capital of people and services, there is another trap Pristina was preparing. In fact, you've heard, who would understand, the difference, they're asking that, instead of CEFTE, there's a SEFTA and they're saying it would contribute to full free trade, traffic and everything else. What's the point, so people here can understand? The CEFTA is a signator of Umnik, and when you talk about Kosovo, Kosovo goes with a star, and they are looking for SEFTA "Southeast European", so they are looking for, "free trade agreement", so they are asking for it to be a Southeastern Europe trade agreement in which they would be presented as the Republic of Kosovo. Now, if we Serbs say, we cannot accept the Republic of Kosovo, they will say – you Serbs are not for free flow of goods, people, capital and services. And if we had all their decisions, just to respect the CEFTA agreement that we have all accepted since 2006, which is a good agreement, and then we work together on further promotion, on what we do with Northern Macedonia, on 247, the work of phytosanitary inspections, veterinary inspections, on administrative crossings, as we say, the border crossings as they say, we would achieve much greater savings for our companies, for our businesses, their businesses, their businesses, much greater traffic and everything else. They're not interested in that. Behind everything they say, they have only a wish for more stamps, for more stamps, on which they will be their two-headed eagle and absolutely nothing more. I can't explain it to you, to offer you candy, I'll take a look at what's on that candy, because nothing they do has anything to do with real life. They have all kinds of problems in this world, as far as their economies are concerned, perhaps I can only say at this point, that Montenegro has bigger, but all possible problems in this world have, but they don't care at all. These people have almost three times as much money as they get from abroad from their countrymen. They can't compare with anything and nothing compared to central Serbia. So, when I talked about getting guns, I stayed in debt, I promised you, those in the period from 2022 to 2024 are projected to increase the KSB budget from 67.3 million in 2021 to 100.6 million in 2022, or 114.4 million in 2023, and 133.1m euros in 2024. The largest increase in budgets is planned for around 26m euros for 2022 to implement capital investment projects, which means regulating the existing construction of new infrastructure and the acquisition of weapons and military equipment. Kosovo security forces have so far been equipped with 118 Hamer-type vehicles, 17 Cobra-type vehicles, 22 Landrover-type motor vehicles, 44 Mercedes-use motor vehicles, one Mercedes-arox truck, that's a drive on eight wheels and a frigorifer Mercedes truck, four times four. In the next period, three light helicopters and three medium transport helicopters were planned and all on condition that the economy is going much better today than it was until yesterday. Of course, there is now a small danger since they have recently had a great exercise with, first of all, the Americans and the Western partners and the Black Hawk therefore, "black Hawks" if I don't cheat, is like a hawk, so "black Hawks" were involved, and there are patriots involved and of course we have no indication that the Americans will leave it to them, but it's impossible to rule out such an option in the territory of Kosovo. What is the problem in all this is the fact that the process of transforming the KLA into an armed force of Kosovo is indeed the result of a unilateral interpretation and application of Resolution 1244 and Western forces explain and justify the change in the factual situation on the ground. When you ask them why you're violating Resolution, they just give you this syntagma, that sentence, the change of facts on the ground. So, these five words take advantage and they tell you and you, of course, as a responsible man, what to do, to go into conflict with NATO, it's not serious, it's not responsible, you say, so it's not exactly in line with the legal principles, in accordance with legal norms, with the positive international public regulations, but what to do. So, as far as Kosovo's heritage is concerned, which they insist on, it's something that they've come to speak of in their own time to Mrs. Albright, who is very, very influential and today very influential, Mrs. Clinton, also very influential people and a very influential woman, so they've begun to talk about Kosovo's heritage in this very sense and here I am now telling you that I'm afraid that in the future when they see strength and strength, our churches on the ground, and some determination of the Serbian state if you will. So, they will then go to something similar that they tried to do in Montenegro with Miras Dedejic to form the Orthodox Church in Kosovo, as the formation of the Orthodox Church in Montenegro, wait until they tried to do so during the Second World War in Croatia, when they first invented the Croatian Orthodox Church, then worked on the Orthodox Church in Croatia and it was the first and one of the basic reasons why you have today, you can in the Voice of Koncila, Croatia in the archives to find pictures from the stone or Kamenova at Karlovac, where in one day 420 Serbs, who came with the Serbian barjak, and returned to the Croatian barjak, with white chess fields, the first, with the Usta symbol. So these are their plans and we have no doubt, you will see the greater influences of the Gašin family than of all Germans, and their descendants in building monasteries anywhere in Kosovo and Metohija, so that is what Albanian children learn and that is what they will continue to learn, and on this issue certainly without the support of the international community we will hardly be able to save and defend much of it no matter how hard they try and fight. What you were saying about the Brussels administration is that sometimes they don't understand, I have to say that these people have been correct in all conversations, I have nothing to blame, I have nothing to blame Borella or Lajcak, I really have nothing to blame them for. Another thing, do I resent them for a few statements after that when they can't say what they were present for, but I understand them there, they have to be all the time to keep their balance, and even when there's no balance in someone's guilt or how right someone is and who did what? But as far as the way we're talking is concerned, I can't tell them anything or blame them anything, but in all this, I understand very well, as I'm sure you all understand where they're all going with this process and where they'd like that process to go. In all this, when talking about the Serb municipalities community and everything else there is not enough determination, enough pressure on Albanians, everyone is looking at how and how to please them and I have been present for almost decades, not for the first time, not for the second time, but for almost decades. And whatever they do, whatever they do, they'll always repeat and exert the same kind of pressure as before. As far as property is concerned, for you, Mr. Krkobic, just one more detail, when we talk about our property, we have such a terrible problem, only we rarely talk about it, because we like to hear one sentence, which says, we are right, and we are not aware of the reality ourselves. At this point, we are unable to have 70,000 requests to return our people, to return to their apartments, their houses, and above all to apartments in Pristina, large cities, Peća, as Albanians say – Peji, Prizren or Urosevec, as Albanians say – Ferizaj does not matter what they say or what they say. So, what did they do? The agency was run by Masser Shala in time, if I'm not mistaken, by one of the notorious KLA members, so-called. The KLA and they did it that we, we know little about it, but to let you know, they did the following thing, the Serbs came with all the papers, they kept them, they kept them from land books, all the deedes, all the cadastrian copies, and they said, people, we lived here for 30.40.50 years, this is all ours, and the Albanians said -- it was forged and brought two witnesses, who never lived near then, and two Albanian witnesses, said they had seen them and lived with them for 20 years, even though they lived 70 kilometers away, 50, 20 or 100 kilometers away, and the agency assigned apartments to them. We can't go back anywhere, we talk sometimes fairy tales, we deceive ourselves, but there's no court in the world that's going to give it back to us, because they're going to tell you that the time of absolute obsolescence has come, they're not going to give us anything about property, they're just trying to convert everything that is state and social property, to directly convert into property "Republik Kosovo". How are we gonna negotiate? Of course, we'll fight, we'll fight, I don't have to tell you, thank you for noticing that someone's fighting and trying. I've been watching today, I've been here for four hours, and I haven't moved, be fair and tell how many of you people have been sitting around and not getting up, and I've been working five hours before, and I've already come from a meeting with Luigi Dimaj. That's the answer to you, Dragan Markovic, to that when you say, I look at it and someone taps or doesn't tap. I don't have that kind of access, I never look at anyone to tap. And if you ask me, I agree with you, and I don't think there should be any party depravity, and if someone is smart enough to say something, they can be from an opposing camp, and especially if you're not from an opposing camp, and if something's good and if something's right, which should be said hello, I've never had a problem with our people applauding, and now I'm saying it publicly so that they know. Whether said by Mr. Jovanovic, whether said by Mr. Krkobibic, whether he said anyone from minority parties, the SPS, the PUPS, any other party, and I have no problem with that. But I have a problem with that when I see that there are 40 MPs who didn't care enough to come to the Assembly Hall, I don't like to see a small number of MPs who can sit for 6 or 7 hours, I don't know how we're doing 8 hours then, God forbid we have to do 10, 12 or 15 hours, and it doesn't seem nice to me and it shows me that some people think there are more important jobs than important national and national issues. It shows me that there's not enough enthusiasm and I'm here to agree with you, like I saw some of my advisors sitting in the upper part, how the lunchtime came, they got lost, so they asked me how to get me to eat. So what do I eat, here in front of you to eat beans and beans in front of you, that's what I resent, first of all, to be honest, but it's when you get used to someone to provide everything for him and that he doesn't have to work too hard, and that he thinks he's been denied something if he didn't get ten times as much as he deserves. But it's a different story. It has nothing to do with KIM. As for your other objections, that I was not strong enough about our political opponents, I deliberately didn't want to talk much about them. I only mentioned one, and that's precisely because Shaip Camberi spoke highly of the decision of the International Court of Justice, and as I understand it, he warmly thanked our leadership at the time for doing so. I don't think this is the best place to do it and do it, even though as you know, I have no fear and I'm never going to court them in any way, because I think they've destroyed the country on this and on any other matter. The most frightening thing is when they lecture us on Kosovo and Metohija, those whose time Kosovo's independence was declared against the law, and their reaction was that none of you can remember, not even the text of a statement, and perhaps many of you from central Serbia don't matter, but here with us are people from Kosovo and Metohija and none of them can remember a single sentence, let alone any move they made. The only thing I remember is that they persecuted all Serbs who took part in the destruction of the Jarinje border crossing, and they chased them and persecuted them with such passion, with such terrible passion, that I did not see it in political action. So, we should have not arrested them all, but killed them because people opposed the setting of borders between Serbs and Serbs, and today they would be giving us patriotic sermons, although we are trying every way to correct everything that we are about, I will not be unfair, so to say that it is entirely their fault, there is a lot of guilt in the 1990s, and now I'm going to show you much earlier. So, we're about to have a big, hard fight with a uncertain outcome, and we're left with to work, hold on, guard and fight to try to be as unique as possible, because if we're together, if we're unique, as your political party says, then we're going to be incomparably stronger, then we're going to be able to stand up to a lot of pressures and get more than what many of us seem to be able to get today. That's why I'm happy about yesterday's meeting, and that's why those who are always against Serbia show special anxiety because they see in that meeting that someone sold themselves to Vukic, even though these people attacked me, so I answered them, don't understand that it's a question of Serbia's survival, that it's a question of our future, because there's no other question for them than -- when they're going to be able to take back people's money and nothing else, and that's why anyone who wants to talk about the state, who would talk about state issues, that's always the problem, because they're state problems, people's problems, citizens's problems never interested in citizens. I said I'd read you some data to see when we made the biggest problems and mistakes and when we didn't understand what was going on around us. According to the 1948 census, the Serbs were 23.6%, Montenegrins 3.85%. So if you do a good calculation of almost 28%, then there were undetermined Muslims 1.33%. So about 30% of the total. In 1953 there were 23.51% of Serbs, almost the same number. In 1961. 23.55% proportionally the same number. But disaster for us occurs between 1961 and 1971. So, an absolute disaster and we never did an analysis of what was going on between 1961 and 1981, but now I'm talking about 1961 and 1971. So in 1971, the Serbs only 18.35%, Albanians as much as 73.66%, and already in 1981, the Serbs were all 13.22%. So everything we lost, we lost between 1961 and 1981. After that, we held on to all possible measures, in every way possible, even until 1991. In 1991, of course we had much less, but a smaller drop proportionally over 10%. So everything we lost, we lost essentially between 1961 and 1981. We didn't understand that the Albanians acted much more responsibly and if they were fighting for their country, I would not say in what way that someone would not tell me that I had abused it, but they were much wiser and much smarter and much more loving their goal than we Serbs wanted. When I told you today about Kosharam and how they shouldn't be there because they did some work, and who would defend our country? How many MPs have we had in the kosharam? How many academics did we have at the Basketball? How many professors did we have from political sciences, law school or from where? Zero, or one in all? Zero or one, because we were smart, and some others need to die for us, and we're going to ask that people should always die, because we understand our national interests well. When someone asks us what we don't think about children, we think about ourselves. We want to live our beautiful lives, we don't care what happens after us. I'm sorry I'm brutal and I know I'm gonna be the target of an attack on everyone, right? Well, that's right. Well, then why are you surprised that our results are like this? Then why are we all surprised that our results are like this? As much support as we give that support can only be seen in poorer neighborhoods so that we can have more children. Where we're richest, where the highest growth rate is, where the highest wages are, where the most pensions are, we have the least children there. And the bigger the wages, the less children we have. So vice-proportional, someone will say something is expensive. Today we have the most standard in our history, we have the least children in our history, and we're not ready to understand that we're solving it, as some other countries do, because we're xenophobic and we're disgusted at anyone who looks a little bit different from us, like there's no MPs here who won't tell me he was very valuable, and I could see today that they're having a hard time sitting for four hours, they have to come out ten times, the same case with ministers, the same case with everyone else. As you can see, I don't have any fear of what's going to happen in any election or who's going to tell me because I'm telling the truth and every citizen in Serbia knows I'm telling the truth, except nobody can tell it, because someone's going to tell him that I've violated someone's right to free parenting, that I've hurt whose right to what it is. How do you expect us to survive? How are we supposed to survive? I would like to say to Mr Pastor that I am very pleased with the co-operation we have with the SVM and the relations we have with members of the Hungarian nation in general and with members of the Hungarian minority in Serbia. These relations are friendly and brotherly and we have nothing against Hungarian investment in our country, we have nothing against the support Hungary provides to the Hungarians in Vojvodina, on the contrary, we are happy about it and I say that at all times and in every place. Does it bother anyone that they're building the TSC Academy in Backo Topoli and there's going to be 30 football courts and some kids are going to be able to play? As you have seen, on that team he always plays as many Serbs as Hungarians. Who's the problem? No one. Great, they're also increasing our GDP. They work together with us on the development of six or seven municipalities in which Hungarians represent the majority population, but not only that, they participate with us in the construction of food-processing combinations. So also in central Serbia, they help us in Republika Srpska, they help us in many places, and I really have to say that I am very grateful for the construction and SVM and proud of the relations that Serbs and Hungarians have today. Remember, just twenty years ago, we talked about fights in every place in northern Serbia's territory, today, not only not talking about it, but it almost doesn't exist. I am truly very pleased about this, and as President of the Republic, I am proud, and I believe that with other members of the other national communities, we can develop such relationships, with full confidence. He talked about important projects, so, from Subotica-Segedin, that's the driving traffic, for them it's very important, because many learn, work in Segedin, they should return to Saturday. We're going to build this whole circle towards Baja, so we're going to help our citizens both from Kanjiza and from Subotica, and from Chantavir, Byemek and Mali Ijoš, so they can do it. We invest big money, it'll be over 60m euros, and we think it's very important to us. Belgrade-Budapesta railway, part of Belgrade-Novi Sad, I believe that it will be fully open to all citizens in February at the latest, and we will be able to test the ride that we have in November or at the latest in December, which will completely change Serbia's appearance. I've been saying all of this to understand how important it is to us, to get back to the beginning, to understand how important it is for us to keep peace, to keep stability, to look at our economic progress, because economic progress is not coming from ourselves. You have to make countless preconditions for the country to move forward, so you can be successful. Does anyone think that, I don't know, the representatives of the former government didn't want to build hospitals? On the side that they were more interested in private pockets, but of course they wanted to. I guess they wanted to. Normal people would want to, but they couldn't. They couldn't because they were unable to find mechanisms to create growth, because they boasted of a rise of -3.5, and we boast of a 7% growth. So that's the fundamental difference. That's billions and billions. We can brag. Soon by 1 September we will finish Kovid hospital in Novi Sad, you will see how much will be needed in autumn and winter, as we built in Krusevec and Belgrade, the Clinical Centre in Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, hospitals all over Serbia. You can do that when you have the money. It's not a question of desire and whether you speak well or not. It's a matter of fact. It is therefore important that we understand the facts about Kosovo and Metohija. We can deceive ourselves and say – we own 58% of the property. Maybe it used to say, maybe it's written somewhere today. We can't get to it, except by force. I just want you to know it, and I want someone else to lie to you. Let someone else tell you it's possible. Go, please, take a walk to see. I spoke to the late patriarch, blissfully resting patriarch Irinea countless times. He always wanted, after every conversation he wanted, as I believe I would do with Patriarch Porphyri, he always wanted to come and talk to him after every conversation in Brussels. I was telling him and he understood Serbia's position and politics perfectly. A wonderful man, but at one point he told me – Alexander, I know and I understand everything but, I am 87 or 88 years old, I cannot understand that any piece of Kosovo and Metohija will not be ours. I told him -- neither did I. I've lived with it my whole life. But then he added to me, to be honest -- but I can't tell you what I saw in Kosovo and Metohija is enough to know that I understand and that's why I listen to what you're talking about. So go wherever you want, go through Pristina-Pec, as I went, believe me, you will pray to God that you don't go that way anymore, and I won't tell you everything why. From the markings for the Serb aggressor, for the Serb criminal to everything else. That's what I'm telling you about the main road, and I'm not going to tell you all about the sideshow. So I'm just asking you that, when we start with that bar drill in the chest, let's think about what the consequences are, as I've been able to hold on hard enough and strong enough and without tiredness from Kosovo and Metohija to ask Kurti and tell him three times – please don't try to take on Valacha and I'll continue to act not because I'm afraid of him or because we're afraid of their strength, because this is not strength, except in the people. What they have is not power for a quarter of a Serbian army battalion. Nothing. A nonexistent force. It's not that. It's about our future. It is a question of whether we can boast in the coming years that we have attracted the highest foreign direct investment, can we boast that our country is making progress, that we are building new roads and railways, that we can save good relations with the West, not just with our Chinese and Russian friends, because without good relations with the West, we will not have as many foreign direct investments, and then in two years we will talk about it and why we do not have salaries and pensions and why we do not grow at that rate as we did before. It's all connected, and I'm just asking you to understand that, and I'm just asking you not to increase the expectations of our people. I'm not a deserter, and I'm not going to run away and I'm not going to accept the ultimatums, nor is anyone going to sign any confessions. That's what some people will do after me, but I'm telling you just don't let us deceive our people and talk about how ideal our situation is, because none of these people upstairs believe you when you say it. Do you really think it's possible to get 85% of the votes in Kosovo and Metohija because there's a big party machine with all the stories about me betraying Kosovo and I don't know what? Well, you can't explain it to these people who are worse, who live. They know how much I care about each and every one of them individually. I call everyone on the phone when he gets sick, not when he's being chased by the Pristina authorities, to watch what we can do in every village because I understand exactly what they're facing. They must pass every day on both Jarinj and on Brnjak and on Merdara and on Končulj and on who knows which, as we say, administrative crossing. When we ask them how they feel? When did we try to fit in their shoes and get in? I've got one in my Cabinette, come out of the cafe, strong, laden, good, honest guy – well, I'm ready to go and tell him – don't, please, don't, please, but just please, here, I'm paying you, what you need, three days, go to the Cachanic, to the hotel and just stay the night, two nights and three days, and don't come back and tell me. The guy came back, the great guy, the photographer, and he says, "President, I was joking, and I was wrong to tell you and what I said, I want to stay here in Belgrade and see how I'm going to live on." So let us talk to our people, to people who really live in Kosovo, because they know what kind of trouble they are facing, especially people south of Ibra, people in Metohija, people in Kosovo's maritimeity, the Sirenic parish, and even in central Kosovo. Central Kosovo, where we had most, everywhere, from Uroševac, from Lipian to Pristina, and to Belacevic, and through Obilić, or Babi's Most, Plemetina, Prilužje, a good bridge over Vučitrn to Kosovo Mitrovica, today, as Leskovci would say, thin brandy. We help our people where we can and how we can in every way possible, but the situation is not ideal. In any case, what I call you to is to fight, to unity, and also to understand the real situation, because only so will we be able to measure the opponent well, to understand their needs and their demands well and to measure the strength of our energy, strength and hope for victory, and victory in the future is peace and stability and security and the preservation of our national and state interests. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7717	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, as authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Ivica Dacic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7718	Dear Mr. President, Honorable Vice President Orlic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable members of the Government, there are topics that we can and need to differ because we are in different political parties, but around this one we are not. That is why it is invaluable that we hold this session and what the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic and I want to thank him for having this initiative to schedule this session. That's why I'm speaking here as the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and that's the first time I've used that opportunity since I was elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I consider my obligation as party president to be second to strength, number and voting body to make it clear to me what I think of all this. Of course, Kosovo and Metohija have been a central Serbian topic for centuries. It wasn't ours anymore, we didn't have it anymore than it was ours, from 1459 to 1912, 453 years old. I don't know if you're aware of what a time period this is. We haven't had Kosovo, but we haven't lost it and we haven't lost it, especially in the last few centuries. There was no topic, from literature, art, to science, culture and politics that was not related to Kosovo, even those who won in 1912 at Kumanov were Kosovo vigilantes and liberators. After all, Serbia-Montenegro together freed Kosovo in 1912. That's why Montenegro, when it recognised Kosovo as an independent state, did not betray Serbia, it betrayed itself, because in 1912, Pec, Decani, East and Djakovica belonged to the Montenegrin state. As such, they entered World War I. Pec, Decani, East and Djakovica joined Montenegro in 1912. That's right. And they recognized it today as part of the Kosovo state, betrayed their ancestors, after all, and King Nikola. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in 453 years Albanianization, Islamization, ethnic cleansing and demographic change have done its part. But having less of us doesn't give anyone the right to secession. How about in the world whenever a nation becomes a minority in the work of national minorities, that part of the territory has the right to its own country? They know it's impossible and they can't do it. That's why they also called this the sui generis, a special case, thinking it wouldn't concern them. I want to say here, I'm sorry that Mr. Kambery is not here, but I guess he hears, never in Kosovo and Metohija was a problem of human rights, never, ever, the human rights of Albanians, but it was, and it was in this building, in this room, these tones were heard, especially before 2000, when it was spoken -- just to bring down Milosevic, to bring down dictatorship, we will solve problems with Albanians, because the problem is democracy and human rights. It was never a problem of human rights and democracy, but exclusively illegal secessions and the desire of Albanians to create their independent state of great Albania. After all, Mr. Kamberi is in a dilemma whether he will put on an Albanian or Kosovo flag, but is still defined as Albania. What's he saying? That it's all great Albania in their idea. I don't want to talk about the past right now. They were more independent in Yugoslavia than they are now. They now have their bosses, then they had no bosses, and they had everything from the Supreme Court to the police and everything else. Besides, every day there were millions of dollars coming from all other republics of the former Yugoslavia. They knew this couldn't happen, that's why they didn't want peace. That's why they formed the KLA, committed crimes, expelled Serbian citizens, or citizens of Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija. They used lies, from Rack, to claim that Kosovo Albanians were imprisoned at the Pristina stadium, until, even, that there are blood banks that we take from Albanian children to treat wounded police officers and soldiers in Kosovo in the 1990s. That's why they used NATO bombs. That's why only here Western forces supported Islamic terrorists, mujahedine, only in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, where Bin Laden could walk freely. They were handing them guns, of course. I don't want to comment on how it got on their heads on September 11th, but I would like to remind them that the vast majority of those involved in the 9/11 attacks are from the Balkans from those terrorist groups that they have terrorised and sponsored here. They also illegally declared Kosovo's independence, as I said, based on lies. Flora Chetaku has told the Security Council a hundred times - colonization. We're colonists. Today Cambery says apartheid. The story of God. I was the prime minister at the time, and that's what Mr. Vukic remembers. In agreement with him, I went to that exhibit. I was like the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia at that exhibition on the death of the family he's talking about, along with Spaso Vulevic, because I was the interior minister, who is the commander of the SAJA, who saved that woman. And their political representatives did not come to the exhibitions, but participated in the killing of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and that is why they are now in The Hague. Also, when we talk, there were 20,000 rape victims. Up until now, less than a few hundred have applied for a call that they themselves made to citizens in Kosovo. I don't even think there's that much. I wasn't following anymore, but there may be 200, 300, 400 applications. Of course, every victim deserves attention, conviction, respect. But it's not the same thing when you're talking about 20,000 or when you're talking about 200. When they talk about genocide, let me, now that that's a magic word, without wanting to go back in time, I just want to say, our brothers and sisters sitting up at the gallery know well, but because of them, and for the sake of the public, I just want to point it out. Listen well to the data. Data: Pristina 1981, 52.269 Serbs, 2011, 30 years later, 430. So, where's forty-nine thousand and some Serbs? Where is it, Mr. Cambery, where are they? Urosevic – 18.285 Serbs 1981 in 2011 32, not 32,000, 32 Serbs. Where are they, Mr. Cambery? Gjilane 19.212, now 332, Vec 17.791, 1981, now 332, Kosovo Kamenica 14.813, now 1.554, Prizren, once capital, 11.651, 2001. 237, Lipjan 10.259, now 513, East 9.592, now 194, Klina 7.802, now 98, Vitina 8.369, now 113, Vučitrn 6,091 Serbs, now 384. Just listen to two more fragrant data: Podujevo - 2.242 Serbs, now 12. Do you know where the Poduje is? The first municipality after Kursumlia is under way, and the other 12 Serbs are left. Next, Djakovica - 1,898, now there are 17. Wait, ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters, friends and comrades, how will you, if genocide is over the Albanians, how are they now more than there were, and the Serb has fewer than there were? Is there something wrong with you? In Pristina, 140,000 people lived in 1981, Albanians, and now 194,000. I said how many Serbs were -- 50,000, and now 430. Genocide. Right, you just made a little bit of a mistake over who the genocide was committed. I will remind you that in Pristina in 1953, 7,951 Serbs lived on the list and 9,034 Albanians. Just talk about genocide. Where are the Serbs? It is clear that ethnic cleansing and genocide has been committed against Serbs. It's a historical and practical truth. Only 1.9% of those who have been expelled from Kosovo have returned. Why does the world keep quiet? Why are the countries in the region silent? Why do Marinika, Kamberi, Ugljanin, not propose a resolution on the genocide of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija or in Jasenovac, instead of wanting to throw an anatem and mark on their resolutions to the people who, besides the Jews, suffered the most severe victims and the greatest genocide and destruction in the 20th century? And Israel, the Jewish state, has shown that their interests are more important than principles, sacrificing Serbian Jerusalem for the Kosovo Embassy in Jerusalem. Kosovo has shown that it only listens to Western forces, not Islamic interests, although Islamic countries have recognised it. But history. We created a coalition in 2012, i.e. we found unilaterally declared independence, 110 countries recognised Kosovo. The International Court of Justice, at our request, Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, made a decision and a verdict that the creation of a Kosovo state did not violate international law. Resolution of the General Assembly on the transfer of dialogue to Brussels. We can have two approaches -- either everything is lost or Kosovo is Serbs, nothing has changed. The situation on the ground speaks quite differently -- neither Serbia has full sovereignty in Pristina, nor Pristina has full sovereignty in northern Kosovo. Any change is possible only by war. That's why it's only reasonable to have a dialogue and seek compromise. That's why we've defined ourselves for dialogue, starting with the situation found that the maltenes are all solved and lost. In 2012, Albanians did not even consider compromise. They thought Serbia was weak, threatened, blackmailed us. But the situation has changed by changing power. Serbia was getting stronger. We tried to find new strong friends without losing any old ones. We were a credible partner, aware of the strength of our enemies, but also aware of the strength of our principles we fight for. We started with a process called the so-called process. Recognitions. I told you, 110 countries have recognised Kosovo, now 19 countries are smaller. We now have a majority, or Kosovo no longer has a majority in the UN General Assembly. And if he's running anywhere, it's gonna be like UNESCO and Interpol. Mr. Vukic and I were, at the time he was Prime Minister and I was Foreign Minister when Thaci applied for UNESCO. We had a conversation and we told him why you're doing it, and they say, well, we're not going to talk to you at all. And we started from scratch. I am grateful to President Vukic for giving approval and for leading the state action to show our old friends to encourage them to reconsider and withdraw Kosovo's recognition. Not to mention the double arches, the inviolability of borders. Now they remembered the integrity of the borders, when they first violated Serbia's borders. Pristina has neither wanted a deal nor a compromise since the beginning. They thought that we would give in, that we had no choice, so they did not respect the signed, such as the community of Serb municipalities in the Brussels Agreement. What is the credibility of those with whom Thaci and we have signed the Brussels Agreement, or the European Union? I understand that Albanians want to destroy everything they have signed, or not to implement anything they have signed, but what is the credibility of those in whose presence you sign it with and with their guarantees, and that they are calmly looking at all that Albanian separatists are doing? Therefore, they will threaten us not to join the EU, they will ask for anything and offer nothing, they will pressure other countries to recognise Kosovo's independence, such as non-recognised EU members, constantly keep puppet countries from the region, constantly attacking Serbia and causing conflicts. In the end, the military may also try to conquer the north, knowing, and we also know that only economically strong Serbia is the best defence for Serbia and Kosovo. They will seek politicians who will recognise Kosovo by saying it is a rescue. As a man who has spent years together in this story, in these nine years, with Alexander Vukic, I know well what pressures we have endured and what pressures he has endured, how we have fought for the best for the Serbian people, how much we have helped our people in Kosovo and Metohija, how much we have led to no decision on Serbia being made without Serbia, and I know that Aleksandar Vukic will not give in, that he will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, but he will do everything to preserve peace and people's lives and achieve a compromise solution. I also speak to Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija who are here, as well as to all citizens who see it in Kosovo and Metohija. While you are in Kosovo, Kosovo can be Serbian. If you are not there, there is nothing more than Serbia's Kosovo. That's why the state has to help you and I want to give you a big credit for staying in your homeland, where the Serbian state and the Serbian church were born. After all, Albanians do not even have an Albanian name for Kosovo, because that name came from the Serbian word for the bird's hair. That's what you even have on the CIA site. How can those who have no name for their country think that this land is theirs, but everything is possible. Mr. President, I am proud of everything we have achieved together and you and I personally, you, above all, as President of the Republic, Prime Minister, but also of our ruling coalition, which is our political party that we are leading. On behalf of the SPS, and I can also say on behalf of JS and Dragan Markovic, I want to give full support to all efforts and struggles for state unity, for the protection of national and state interests. Only a stable Serbia and a unique Serbia can be strong. Long live Serbia. Long live Serbian Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7719	Thank you. For our children, Aleksandar Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7720	Mr. President of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Directors of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, brothers and sisters from Kosovo and Metohija, above all, Mr. President of the Republic, I want to ask you at the beginning of my presentation - do you, as President of the Republic and Chief Commander, have any knowledge of who tried to kill you in Srebrenica in 2015 when you had enough courage and humanity to go to Potocara and bow down to the victims of the crimes in Srebrenica and to respect the pain and Bosniak men and Bosniak women and Bosniak children? I think that is a very important question, because I have not heard that in the recent history of the Balkans and of one Prime Minister, an assassination was attempted, except for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, who did not go to Srebrenica with machine guns and tanks but with crowns and flowers, and they welcomed him so that it was clear that they wanted to kill him. I would like to say that no Serbian official, no Serbian president, no Prime Minister, has ever been easy for any Serbian minister to participate in the resolution of the Kosovo-Methohic knot, to participate in resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems. Yesterday, I won't say your name, but yesterday, an opposition, to call him, the leader, asked you -- is there a possibility that the issue of resolving Kosovo and Metohija from the EU could be moved to the UN? This was asked by a man who was in the coalition with Boris Tadic until yesterday, a man whose initiative, if I am not mistaken, was transferred to Brussels in 2008 by letter to the UN Secretary-General, to the problem of Kosovo and Metohija from the UN, to the EU. This was asked by a man who was in the coalition with Vuk Jeremic, the foreign minister who in 2010 referred the issue to the International Court of Justice asking for an advisory opinion on whether the adoption of the declaration was so-called. Kosovo's independence parliaments in accordance with international public law or not, although as foreign minister in advance, he had to know that no judge of international justice can decide otherwise than his country's stance. To a small child, it means to a first-class primary school student who knows that it counts to 20 it was quite clear that Serbia's initiative cannot succeed, because the absolute majority of judges in the International Court of Justice are judges from countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence and Metohija. I am not saying this because I would not give in to people who participated yesterday in these talks with the President of the Republic, who told them very openly what the situation in Kosovo and Metohija is, who had the patience to listen to all their ideas and all their thoughts on how to solve the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, but I only want because of the Serbian public and for you, brothers and sisters in Kosovo and Metohija, to say how difficult it is today for the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, because they have loaded on his back the burden of all Serbian, Yugoslav, and then again Serbian politicians who have not done enough or have done anything or have even done everything in favour of the Albanians. All of this was inherited as one great burden, as one great cross was received by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. What I mean, Mr. President, you may resent me, in 2013, when the Brussels Agreement, which provides for the Community of Serb municipalities, was signed here in Belgrade by a retired liturgy for all members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for all the MPs who voted for the adoption of the Brussels Agreement. They said you were a traitor, that you sold Kosovo and Metohija, that you sold faith for dinner, that you had broken the Kosovo Testament, that you were a greater traitor than Vuk Brankovic, that the curse would follow not only you, but also your children. Of course, those great heroes who teach us patriotic lessons today, who during their power, from 2000 to 2012, have done their best to facilitate Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija to declare independence, or have done nothing to strengthen Serbia's positions in Kosovo and Metohija. The question arises today – how did they react? To remind the citizens of Serbia how they reacted. On February 2008, Boris Tadic fled to Romania. He had an urgent call from the president of the Republic of Romania, so what a man would do, he had to pack his bags and go to Romania. How did Vojislav Kostunica react? That's very well known to you. The government of the Republic of Serbia has declared people non grata, imagine how brave, how much humanity and heroism, Ambassador of Montenegro Anku Vojvodic and the ambassador, I forgot his name, the Republic of Macedonia here in Belgrade. So they expelled the Montenegrin ambassador and the Macedonian ambassador and thus showed how strong they are. They were not allowed to write to the Americans, nor to the French, nor to the Germans, nor to any other part of what Alexander Vukic today should say not only here in the National Assembly, but also in Brussels and Washington, and everywhere where heavy and painful talks are being held about Kosovo and Metohija. Why did I mention "restricted liturgy"? It's a painful situation and a painful scene, and I hope it never happens again. You have been declared, Mr. President, to be the greatest traitor in the history of the Serbian people because you sold Kosovo and the Metohija which is a sacred Serbian country, and that's where we Serbs have shown, and it is not our fault that Shaip Kamberi, or Albin Kurti, or anyone else, are such hypocrites. Mr. President, you get mad at me again, I am the origin of Serbians from Krajina and my father and mother from Kordun and grandparents and by my father and mother's line, now I ask the entire Serbian people, agree that Kosovo and the Holy Metohija is a Serbian country, is the Serbian Krajina not a sacred Serbian country? I now have in my hands, I have worked hard, a list of Serbian churches and monasteries on the territory of the former Republika Srpska Krajina and on the territory of today's Croatia. Does the Serbian people know that there has been an Orthodox Church in Pula since the 6th century? Byzantine historians say we Slovenians came to the Balkans in the seventh century. In VI. A century ago, the first Christian church in Istria was built in Pula, which had been a major parting point since 1954, so 1200 BC was assigned to the Greek community that lived in Pula. Isn't the holy land of Stone. where we have the church of St. Michaela from 1080, so on Peljesac, before the church detachment of 1954. Isn't the sacred Serbian country, the land on which the Mother of Stone monastery was erected? In that monastery, in 1219, St. Sava founded a humongous diocese for the areas of the Humunt and Travunia, today's Herzegovina with the entire coast of Dubrovnik? Isn't the sacred Serbian country of the island of Korčula where the temple of the Holy Mother's Success was erected in 1220? Isn't the sacred Serbian country in which the Krupa monastery has existed since 1317, formed by Serbian King Milutin? And isn't the sacred Serbian country of the 1350 Krka monastery, which was built by Jelena Nemmanic Šubić and not to read, there is a monastery in Cetina, there is a monastery in Gomir, there is a monastery in Komogovina, etc. Aren't they sacred Serbian countries? Well, when they list the sacred Serbian countries, why don't they say these are also sacred Serbian countries? And they kept silent, as they were watered, when these sacred Serbian countries went to someone else. Excuse me, isn't Macedonia a sacred Serbian country? How many Serbian heads died in the First, Second Balkan War, World War I, in order for Macedonia to be free? That the Macedonians would be free, because they were never free until then, because either the Turks or the Bulgarians or the Greeks attacked them. When was the first time they could speak Macedonian? In the Kingdom of Serbs and Croats and Slovenians. That's what this evil, vicious, conquering Serbia is all about. When were Slovenians able to speak and write in Slovenian literary language? Since 1918. When are the Croats? In the Croatian Parliament you could speak either Latin or German or Hungarian. Croatian, actually Serbian, but let's accept that this is their Croatian language today literary, when could they speak? Well, since 1918. So Serbia didn't bring slave chains to anyone, it brought freedom. Just as it brought freedom to the entire population in Kosovo and Metohija, including Albanians, in 1912, bringing them not only political freedom, but culture, literacy and the possibility of Albanians speaking Albanian themselves, as until then the official language in Kosovo and Metohija was Turkish. That's the conquering great Serbia. It is this Aleksandar Vukic who wants to create what the media in BiH, Montenegro and other countries say, some new Serbian world as a substitute for the concept of homogeneous, or large Serbia. We as a nation, as a state, as a government and you, Mr. President of the Republic, are always called upon in these difficult and painful negotiations for KIM on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and on Resolution 1244. The constitution is clear and clear regarding the status of Kosovo and Metohija, but unfortunately for us no one in the international community cares about it. The second international document to which we are calling, Resolution 1244, if you ask me for my humble opinion, is not quite on the side of the SRJ when it was brought, or today Serbia as its successors. But I now want to ask one more rhetorical question than the one I expect to answer -- what about the opinion of the famous Badinter Commission in 1991, which is being persistently called by Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia? Let me remind you, a peace conference for Yugoslavia in 1991, under the chairmanship of Lord Carrington, has decided to form an arbitration commission that should propose a solution to the Yugoslav crisis. At the head of the commission was Robert Badinter, president of the Constitutional Council of France. It's something similar to our Constitution, they don't call it that, but it's essentially more or less the same jurisdiction. According to his first preliminary opinion, in November 1991, Robert Badinter wrote with his associates that the SFRY is in the decomposition phase. Already in the second and the following opinion, he gave a solution to how to solve the Yugoslav crisis, in principle "suti naseditis juris". So what the former Yugoslav republics possess under then applicable SFRY law and then the applicable right of the Socialist republics. Both Slovenia and Croatia and BiH and all others who separated from the SFRY have called for that opinion. Badinter interpreted the principle of "seat possessions" as saying that Slovenia has the right to secede from Yugoslavia, that Croatia has the right to secede from Yugoslavia, but that no part of Croatia has the right to secede from Croatia. According to this principle, Croatians managed to take over the Republic of Serbia's Krajina, which was called among other things when they conquered the Republic of Serbia's Krajina in the criminal actions "Blash" and "Storm" in 1995. Now, my rhetorical question is – if the principle of "seats possession" from the findings and opinions of the Badinter Commission of 1991 and 1992 applies to Slovenia and Croatia, it is possible that they do not apply to the Republic of Serbia, as it is possible that you can separate from one sovereign and independent state one part of it and say – the principle of "sits possession" applies to all from Triglav to Djevdelija, but does not apply to you Serbs. It would be a good idea to remind these international negotiators, partners, friends or fewer friends, the people we're talking to, what happened to that finding and the opinion of the Badinter Commission? How is it possible that the report and the opinion of the Badinter Commission applies to everyone other than the Serbs? What I also want to say, Mr. President, and you don't have to agree with me, please avoid that kind of adventure, that kind of national suicide policy that happened here in Belgrade on March 27th 1941. A few years ago, I was accused of preaching nationalism here because I said that the coup of March 27th was actually an introduction to the breaking of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and that the real founders, even though they were not aware of it at the time, did not want it, but when I looked at the landing of events, the real founders of NDH, the camp in Jasenovac, all possible migrations from NDH to KIM were generals Borisvoje Mirkovic, Dusan Simovic and all others who said that Yugoslavia must war with Germany, because the British embassy had opened a bottle of champagne earlier on and because Churchill said – Yugoslavia had found its soul. It has not been 17 days, Yugoslavia has capitulated, Pavelic has declared NDH with his people on 10 April 1941, and what have these great heroes been doing since 27 March? From Belgrade, they went to Niksic, accompanied by the army and the gendarmes, from Niksic to Athens, from Athens to Jerusalem, from Jerusalem to London. They didn't last one day with a people who had no need to go to war. That's why we came out of World War II so that in World War II, now you think about whether or not we won World War II or not, in demographic terms, every forty-nine Englishmen died and every seven Serbs died. That's why now the English have as many as there are, and that's why the Serbs have us now as many of us as there are. So, Mr. President, I know it's hard for you, you have all the possible support of the SNS parliamentary group, you have the unreserved support of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, but never at any time do you kneel before false heroes, in front of fake patriots, in front of those who would like to light a bouquet and a fire here in Serbia to lose everything, both Kosovo and Metohija and central Serbia and Vojvodina, to go down and down and Republika Srpska and to destroy the Serbian name forever, and they'll be nice on Mauritius, in Hong Kong, in New York, in London, where their apartments, where their villas are, where they have money. You have no right to this kind of adventure. No one is entitled to this kind of adventure, because the President of the Republic must take care first of all of the living people, living people, living men, women and children in Kosovo and Metohija, must also take care of the Republika Srpska, because there is no one else, it must also take care of Serbs who are left to live in Croatia, and where their rights remain very often threatened, it must also take care of Serbs who are left to live in northern Macedonia. That is why the burden of the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic is very difficult and, of course, in Montenegro. That's her, and we rode them, right, Mr. Risticevic? That's General Jovo Kapičić, talking. He says, in 1918, Serbia rode Montenegro, and in 1944 he came to Dedinje and had a coffee shop here in downtown Belgrade. Do you have a Marijane Risticevic in downtown Belgrade, a cafe, and General Jovo Kapicic had one? And, he says, rode Serbia to Montenegro. The one called Zeta before that was called Duklja, and they forgot that Skadar was a Serbian town, so that there was once a state of St John's Vladimir, etc., that we are not going back to the past. So, Mr. President, with all due respect to the difficult situation you are in, I want to tell you that I fully understand all the complexity of the situation and you as president of the Republic and the Government of Serbia, but to tell you that you have unreserved and full support in one rational, reasonable and responsible policy, not only for Kosovo and Metohija, but also for the Republic of Serbia and our people in Croatia, Montenegro, Macedonia, because today you, whether you want to admit it or not, are the only man in the Balkans who thinks not only about the interests of your people, but also about the interests of all other peoples and who seem to me the only policy that seems to me is good for all Balkan peoples, which is the Balkan Balkan peoples.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7721	You know what, we talked today at the College and just now with the president, given that this topic, as we have said, is of utmost importance to every Serb and every Serbian citizen and that we are certainly handling this principle and the need to say something, we can certainly discuss this for several hours. On the other hand, there was also a proposal to address only the heads of the groups and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, with what we have here, would be damaged by these independent MPs, or whatever you want. So we have two options, or we can continue the discussion, but not a lot of MPs will be able to get word, or we can conclude the discussion here, that the president says in the final word what he wants, and if you want to move on then we have to move on to the list of MPs groups. What's the public opinion? President, we suggest, it was also this morning a proposal with colleges, that given the real need for this session to be on one level of political seriousness and everything else, without going too far, so I suggest you turn around and then, since all the parliamentary groups have been given the right to plead, the only thing that's damaged is an independent MP, but what do we do? It's not worth being an independent MP. If you agree to receive Glisic's word and we end up here? If he gets Glisic, then we've crossed over, then he'll be looking for other opposition parties that have one more. Here you go, Glissy.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7722	Mr. President, it is known that I am not some great supporter of your policy, not even a small supporter of your policy. It is known that in many aspects what you and your party are doing is harmful to many segments of social political life in Serbia, but given the topic and moment we are talking about, I will not talk about it. You, like me, were members of political organisations that easily used the word - a traitor to political opponents. I don't do it anymore, and because, no matter how many things you've done in KIM politics, I'm not going to qualify you that way, because I believe that two million people who voted for you that people recognize that it makes sense what you're doing. However, I was against the Brussels Agreement and I believe that many parts of our sovereignty have been given where we shouldn't have given up to Pristina and that we didn't get anything for it. However, the Brussels Agreement was after nine years in which we gave a lot of the elements of our state to Pristina, which led us to have one great advantage, which is that we have exposed the position of Kurti and his allies and political representatives of Pristina who, in essence, have done nothing for almost nine years, i.e. They did not establish a community of Serb municipalities. So, we came to the situation that Serbia, respecting the Brussels Agreement, has fulfilled all its obligations, and Pristina has not. It is now a great advantage in disseminating the kind of relations Pristina has with these agreements and the negotiations we are pushed into. But much more important than that, we have seen this nakeding of one brutality and violation of all civilizational flows of rights by those who guarantee these negotiations, which is the EU. After all, there's always a U.S. representative at these negotiations. After nine years of such behaviour, you as a lawyer know that, say, in a private relationship with someone you sign a contract and it does not meet any of its contractual obligations, and you fulfill everything, to make it irresponsible, and worse, guaranteed, i.e.. The recipient of this agreement, does nothing to make him do it. It would be normal in private life if we had nothing to do with people like that and not to negotiate with people like that and to stop it. In that sense, now the Brussels Agreement, which I was against, gives us the opportunity to look into the eyes with EU representatives, with representatives of Washington, Brussels, Berlin, London and already who, because we all know very well that Kurti's courage is not from his head, but is supported and continuously supported, and in the same way as Mr Martinovic spoke nicely, how supported those who have emptyed Republika Srpska's Krajina from the Serbian people. These same people, these same countries, these same centres of power that you've talked about as well today several times as they behave uncivilly and poorly continue to hold us by tying our hands and legs in that game, and allowing the Albanian side to slap our slaps and do whatever it wants. So if someone once transferred from the Security Council to Brussels to take care of us and be a judge in this game, it's a process that happened and I'm not going to talk about those who were in power and may never be in power again. What you've come here is a good thing, you're restoring trust in institutions, only you know that this Assembly looks more like the main committee of your party than the Assembly, and that returning to the institutions here is not exactly the right thing to do, and that your need to share responsibility with the people would be much better if you were to share with the people, if you were willing to go to the referendum and give the people back at such difficult times the opportunity to say what they think about politics. This referendum question should never be unconstitutional, but should be whether we as a people after all these experiences of 30 and a few years of Brussels, Washington, Berlin, London, Paris, and already as many as there are, we have the right to say as a people that it would be good to now in the format of these negotiations, because they have come to a dead end and will never go any further, unless we give them everything they want, to appear a little next to Brussels and Washington and Beijing and Moscow. Perhaps if you invited Moscow to interfere, you would be in a position to decide beyond the people, but share that burden with the people. Give the people a chance to tell if it's for that. It's not March 27th, March 27th, they brought out people who didn't go to the referendum, but with guns, they decided what they wanted. This is the right way to get back...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7723	Gliss, I was in good faith, but it's been five minutes, so don't overdo it now. It's five and thirty, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7724	Anyway, I think this referendum is the right thing to do, not to be original and to do something about your people's mind and the originality of our history this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7725	Thank you. I would ask you then only that, in accordance with what we agreed or at least announced that it would be so, the word will only be given to Nadia Beqiri, who otherwise announced, that we would not have those problems as last time, and I think it is good and important that she speaks, because she will speak Albanian, she has the right under our law, and that is good, that everyone sees that Serbia, as someone says, is an autocratic and non-democratic state, unlike some others, where Serbs cannot speak their own language on the street or on the street, let alone in parliament. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7726	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable citizens here present today I have three questions for the president who are of general interest. With great attention, I have listened to your report, and I have paid particular attention to daily statements that Serbia is developing faster than other parts of the region, as the country is increasing standards, as investment develops, and new jobs are opening up. However, we see in the field that all this is happening only in the most developed parts of Serbia. I think that, according to your statement of great success, greater development would be if the same contribution would be from the entire region, especially the undeveloped municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedja, especially as investors come into the most developed parts of Serbia, the cities of Serbia, Nis, Leskovac, Vranje, but do not move on, although there is a location, although the locations are owned by the state, unfortunately, there is no interest in the government. Mr. President, I'm asking you and the government to change your approach and invest and develop these three municipalities, because it's in the interest of all the citizens who live there. I also want to draw attention to the importance of studying and the problem of recognising diplomas for students who have graduated from Kosovo universities, which Serbia still does not recognise. Serbia continues to deny those diplomas, and students cannot integrate into the labour market in Serbia. On the other hand, the Bujanovac, Preshevo and Bear municipalities are part of the most underdeveloped municipalities in the country. They, unfortunately, can find their jobs in cafes or by going abroad. We all know that these municipalities can be economically developed, because only 500 meters away from the city of Bujanovac itself is Corridor 10, which represents a great opportunity for the development of this part. Mr. President, and you know, so turn to your citizens, no difference, by treating each and every one of them equally, because it is your constitutional obligation and your obligation to keep the youth from leaving their hearths just because they are discriminated against. Dear President, it's been months, years, and it's been 8,395 days since their mother knows where their sons, their daughters, their husbands, their brothers, their sisters. The children are 22 years old and they still don't know where their fathers, brothers, sisters and mothers are. As a mother, on behalf of all mothers, I ask you to do everything possible to discover where the missing persons are, to allow mothers to smell the sand and the land where their loved ones are buried and to know where their graves are. This is sad and it would be humanitarian and human if we weren't involved in politics when it comes to missing persons, not being innocent people hostage to politics. I don't want to go any deeper into this issue, because this is a very painful topic, and it's also familiar to you, but somehow everybody's quiet about it. History will never forget and will remember this forever, as well as the terrible events that happened before. That's why I'm asking you that our children can live together, just as they've learned and lived together long before. All of this depends on us, not to be encouraged in our heads by nationalism and burning ideas that develop in their heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7727	Thank you. Mr. President, go ahead. Mr. President, this is a final discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7728	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable Members of the People, I thank Mrs Beqiri for the things you have brought out, and as far as missing persons are concerned, I would like to assure you that your country, the Republic of Serbia, is doing everything possible to find the people their loved ones are looking for. I want to assure you that we have no reason to prevent the investigation in any way, because we consider it a top and most important civilization issue, which is why 21 of the 21 locations sought together with people between the ethnic community, Albanian representatives, dug up space in those locations and did everything to find the bodies of those who died in our mutual conflicts. I would like you to also refer the initiative to those who do not look back on our applications, allow us access to nine other locations where we suspect the killed Serbs are found. I am sure that with your reputation, you will do so to allow the Pristina authorities to do so precisely because of what you said about mothers who are looking for their children, and immediately to inform you that as many as 36% are missing at this time are Serbian nationalities, so that I believe there is no difference between mothers and their love for children, that so warmly and passionately, as you advocate the rights of Albanian mothers, which I fully support, that you will seek such rights in the same way and for all Serbian mothers. As far as we're concerned, we're gonna do everything we can to keep this hard work going. I am grateful to you for noticing the importance and the construction of Corridor 10, we have invested a lot of money to finally complete both the Gredile ravine and the complete way to the border with Northern Macedonia. We believe that this is a good condition or the most important prerequisite for more investment in the two municipalities of Bujanovac and Presevo. I don't know what you're stuck with bear, and I don't know what you have much to do with bear, but I also want to inform you that we've invested a lot in bear, that we continue to invest that we've paved more roads in bear in the past five years than in the previous 70 years, that we've done, look, it's literally like a runway towards leban, all towards Leskovec, according to a few villages that have been looking even worse for Radan Mountain where we've started working, we haven't finished. In any case, we have done a lot of things from the renovation of the home of health to everything else, so we will continue to invest in Medvedja, but you have my word that we will very seriously continue to invest not only in the maternity site in Presevo, which we have done, but also in all other institutions and in bringing investors into the territory of Bujanovac and Presevo. For us, the key importance after solving the issue of Vranjska Banja, for those who do not know, is one of the key places, from there King Petar and went to the Thessaloniki Front and most often used it, despite the pointless attacks of the work of political opponents who no longer literally know what to do with them, which will be a very important signal for the development of the Pcinj County with many other things we have done. Bujanovska spa is of great importance to all of us and to all of you, and I give you my word that after solving the issue of many spas, but I want to tell you that our Czech friends have shown interest, as you are already talking about the Municipality of Medvedje for the Syarinska Banje, so we will continue the talks to keep some of the capacity in Serbian ownership and to bring in those who are best in Europe and who are through both the Czech Krumov municipality and through Karl's Vari show how they can manage such resources. So, we will do our best to have my word that we will fight to bring investors to the Bujanovska Banj, as we will try to bring a good investor to the area of "Bujanovac" but not just "Gum of Plastics", so that you will not tell me that it concerns only the eastern part of the Bujanovac municipality or the part of the Bujanovac municipality where Serbs live predominantly. I don't have to tell you that in Levoso we've been renewing where I was, personally, from school to roads, streets and everything else, but we're willing to do it in the western part of the municipality, regardless of the fact that Serbs have been expelled from power in the Bujanovac municipality and that in every way their rights are denied. We will try to raise your trust in us, in our responsible behaviour, in our more serious or partially altered approach, and then I believe that you will in many ways change your approach to both the Serbian people and the political representatives of the Serbian people. I thank you for noticing how much Vranje, Nis, Leskov and many other places are developing. It is true, but it is true that we have invested the most in southern Serbia, and we expect the largest increase, although it still cannot be compared according to living standards with Belgrade or Novi Sad, but I believe that we will be able to change that together. I personally participated in the opening of seven factories, large factories, factory facilities in the territory of the town of Nis, in Leskovac at least three, in Vranjska County, the Pcinj County, so in at least three or four, I count that "Teklas" will strengthen its position in Vladic's Han, which would be of great importance. I'm afraid we're going to have problems with some foreign investors because of the crown, and so we're going to look to further help Vranje and make further co-operation with Northern Macedonia, so we can invite some of the investors to invest in Vranje and Kumanovo, which would be a good message. Both Macedonians and Albanians and Serbs live in Kuman, so together we could accept certain large investors. So I talked about it recently with Prime Minister Zaev and I believe that this could be the future of good news, as I have discussed with Prime Minister Ram. The next few days, I'm going to have another zoom conference to see what it is that we can do together in the future. As far as the diplomas you're talking about are concerned, it's an agreement made by representatives of the former government, here, as well as for the cadastre, very bad for us, but not about what's bad for us, when you talk about diplomas, I understand your problems, but you haven't told people that we've accepted 28 diplomas, some others haven't accepted any Serbian. They didn't accept any Serbian because they didn't accept it, and in order to explain to you the honourable MPs, why would you need to know such details? They did not accept because they did not recognise Pristina University moved to Kosovo Mitrovica. We had an objection that we would have to recognise those diplomas that do not have their real strength and evidence of real knowledge acquired, because the hyperproduction of the college in Kosovo territory, but we were willing to accept it if the Albanian side accepted it, understands what is normal and which is a much higher level of knowledge and education, and is offered by the Pristina University with a temporary headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica. They have, of course, never accepted it because they want political discontinuity with the University of Pristina, or Kosovo Mitrovica. So that's one of the problems, but we'll see that we solve this problem together, Mrs. Beqiri, and we'll do everything, especially if we reach an agreement with Northern Macedonia and Albania. I believe and hope that we will reach that agreement, and I will do our best to achieve it, and that is not only the free movement and flow of goods, services, capital, but also to reach an agreement with joint response in the event of natural disasters, floods, fires, that all forces should be directed to that point of our three countries, therefore, from Belgrade, Skopje and Tirana. But the third agreement I see as perhaps the most important thing that we could possibly be in a position to sign for the next days and weeks, and that's an agreement on work permits. So, when a work permit is issued in Tirana, that this work permit works, or is worth it in the territory of all Serbia, on the territory of the whole of Northern Macedonia and vice versa. I think that would dramatically improve the labour market, a situation where we have a problem. You know that we also have an additional problem, it is true that the problem is a major outflow and, in particular, the Albanian population from Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities, and it is important for us to find investors and try to solve the issue of this spill, not only towards Pristina, but towards Western countries, and I hope that we can solve this problem together. As for Mr. Glissic, the Brussels Agreement you said you had a lot to criticise, it's easy to criticize everything from a distance. It's easy to throw everyone away, it's easy to always find the lavender's sufficient reason not only for the words of criticism, but also for the words of evil. I'm not someone who would have been particularly grateful to you for not calling me a traitor today, and otherwise you would have done it, because I don't think I would have been any less, or more traitor if I had done it. I'd be a traitor if I'd done something against my people. It's works that talk about whether I'm guilty or not guilty, not the words of some other people, who didn't see the weight of our country's position, or the weight of our people's position, and they didn't want to see everything we did and how important and good it was. Were there any mistakes? Of course it was. I am a sinner, not as sinless as all my political opponents, and at least they are sinful when it comes to money in their pockets. They did it without error and never gave it up. The Brussels Agreement is something I said in 2013 that I now address to you our peoples from Kosovo and Metohija, to you representatives of the people of Kosovo and Metohija, in the fiery atmosphere, I have had the courage to go among the people and the people who have cursed me, both mother and father, and children and to tell them that I am the greatest traitor and to tell them – wait just a few years, you will see how we Serbs will fight for the Brussels Agreement, and how the Albanians will flee from the Brussels Agreement. I hope you remember what it was like in Kosovo, Mitrovica, in a very, very difficult situation, filled with emotion. As you saw, I was right, not because I was smarter than any of you, but because I understood the international circumstances and the opportunities well and because we understood them well, and because we realized that Pristina played it all because of one thing that didn't get in point 14) or 15) corrected, which was supposed to get, or two points at that time, and that's a chair in the UN and the other was point 10) of the Brussels Agreement, 9) or 10), I think 10), which concerned the regional police, where they wanted and all along said to accept, to God, the Milosevic County of the seven municipalities, of the seven municipalities in the north. So these were: Leposavic, Zvecan, Zubin Potok, a unique Mitrovica, so now they would be the northern and southern Mitrovica, Vucitrn and the Serb, or "Skenderica" they call. In that sense, in that case, if we accepted it, 67% of Albanian nationality and 33% of Serbian nationality would be distributed in the north. Neither, nor the other, even though it was already over, we agreed, so we got 99% of the Serb nationalities in the police district north, and we managed to avoid the UN chair. I'd like to talk about it sometime, and Ivica Dacic, to tell you what the pressures were, he was a good cop at the time, I was a bad cop, we were always tactful, but the burden of that rejection was on me, because he was in a more prominent position and he had to send better messages. And I was a local bastard who was supposed to ruin a party with a chair in the UN, but those pressures were literally creepy and you wouldn't believe what everything had to be. I won't even tell you, whoever we called in Belgrade at the time, we couldn't get anyone alive, because everyone was running away from responsibility, and then it was left to me to lie there on the floor and say I was sleeping and I don't care what they were going to conclude and what decisions they were going to make, which saved us around the UN chair, because I'm telling you that a large number of state officials couldn't handle that pressure and they were already asking to accept such a plan as it was written, completed and signed already on both sides. I'm telling you this because I knew that those communities of Serb municipalities wouldn't meet, because it was never a plan for them either, we were also given the opportunity to develop that our country is progressing and that it is progressing much faster than others in the region. I will only give you a few examples, the average salary in Montenegro in 2014 was 505 euros, and in Serbia 329 euros. Today, there are 556 euros in Serbia, and there are 525 euros in Montenegro. Just look at how dramatic the difference has been made in just seven years. Their GDP was 4.3 billion euros at the time, and ours was 32.5 billion euros. Ours today, 51 billion, ends this year, and they end with 3.7 billion. Just to see what Serbia has done in those last seven and a half years. I can't speak for Pristina, don't be angry, because they don't give any official statistical data, nor can it be caught, but we catch some fragments from the World Bank's conclusions, and on that basis we conclude how good or bad the situation is. I could have taken BiH, which had 372 euros at the time, and today 498 euros, so Serbia has always lagged behind on the average wage, is no longer lagging behind. At a time when I became Prime Minister, the public debt rate was 78% compared to GDP, in Montenegro it is 52 and today it is 106%, and in Serbia it is 58%. Despite the huge support and assistance we have given to businesses and the population and everyone else. That's why, the obligation to help Bujanovac and Presevo, Medvedji, goes without saying, but I don't know what that has to do with you, but it can. I guess you have some kind of historical aspirations that I don't understand and I don't even know what they're based on, but on reality and reality, they're not. So, now I come to what you were talking about, Mr. Martinovic, that they've been holding fire for us, that we were the worst traitors and that I had to hear today that I should be happy that someone won't tell me that I'm a traitor. I guess people thought we'd always hide what someone was saying about us, that we were afraid of someone's words, not afraid of the courts of the people and of our own doing. I wasn't fascinated by those who said it, especially those who had the opportunity to show how the country was run, and they led it in a very, very bad way, which the facts and figures show and prove, better than our emotions, better than any of my stories, better than any of their stories. You spoke today and saw with what sweetness Mr. Kamberi spoke about Jeremic's achievements for the state of Kosovo and for all of them and their reactions in 2008. In 2008, you forgot one detail, you didn't forget, your speech was exhausted, you forgot details from WikiLeaks, which no one could ever deny, because they're afraid of the recording, which is that Borko Stefanovic asked for, it's okay that you recognise Kosovo, just please don't admit Kosovo before the election, because these SNS lunatics are going to beat us. So, it didn't matter Kosovo, it wasn't about the state of Serbia, nothing mattered, just to stay their chairs, and they didn't even ask them not to recognise Kosovo, as we were doing at the recognition or withdrawal of recognition, whatever you want to call it. They didn't get very nervous, because they said, some of them even spoke at official meetings and that it's a good thing we finally got off our backs. If you don't have the courage to tell the people in your face, that it's a burden and that you can't get anything for your country, then don't do that job. I have the courage to tell people that the situation is difficult, not easy, and that it will only be harder for us at KIM, but to tell the people that I won't fight and that we won't fight, it doesn't come to mind. We will fight with all our strength, with all our energy, with everything we know and know, to try to use the arguments we have. I already told you, don't expect justice. We could have called on Badenter, we could've called on whatever resolution you wanted, they're talking to me about disrespecting resolution 796 or 976, whatever. Whether you're handing over people who are not accused of war crimes but in the case, they'd better be ashamed not to talk about it, about whether someone broke the rules of the statute or anything else. When you ask them -- how is it possible that Florence Artman will not be extradited to The Hague tribunal for much more serious violations, because France is a sovereign country, and then that same French woman asks the Security Council of Serbia that for a much smaller offense we must extradite two of our citizens, then you understand that there is no principle. What do you expect them to look at the Badenter Commission conclusions? What do they expect to look back on? Believe me, they don't have a single answer whenever you ask them why someone has the right to self-determination and someone gets the right to self-determination, and when someone else can't get the right to self-determination. We need to know well, and we need to stop lying to ourselves. It's a good thing we always talk about it, that there's no principle and that they've never stuck to principles. The only principles are their interests. Like today, what you can see on other examples when they're talking to you. We have learned for 30 years that the market economy is the basic principle of modern economy functioning. Today, they end the market economy in front of our eyes only because they can no longer win the market economy. Now they found something else, as they called the sea fair approach -- more fair approach, I don't even know how to translate that word exactly. So, whatever you want, forget the principles. As long as someone has the power, they'll only respect the real strength. We need to understand well where, even though we had a total rate seven years ago, we have a total GDP of 32 billion, and today we have 51 billion, which means we are much more successful and richer. We are still a small, certainly not rich country, which still has much to do, which still has much to fight, which still has much to do for its citizens in order to be equal with the citizens of the more developed, above all the European West. So, I am asking you to eat in your meal and frustrations that we feel because of the injustices we have been carrying, because today is not about Jasenovac, for which we even take Franjo Tudjman's data, there is no doubt that they are historical forgeries, it is clear that many more people, many times more people have been killed in Jasenovac, than in Srebrenica, with all the drinking towards every Srebrenica victim, that we cannot talk about Jasenovac, that we can't talk about Jasenovac, that we couldn't make a playful film about Jasenovac for decades, because no one wanted to resent the Zagreb charter, nor the Belgrade charter that was rarely worse than the Zagreb charter. The first to wait for the Belgrade charter, which is to apologize to the Zagreb charter, always. They say we have to understand, so one -- there is no justice, two -- there is no principle, three -- to see what we can do for our people, for our people, what it is that we can do on rational and pragmatic grounds to work for our country. At the same time, under five, what is the conclusion and most important – that at almost all costs you can never say at all costs because someone can attack you, so there is an army, police, etc., but almost at any cost to safeguard peace and stability, because this is the condition of each of our progress in each of the spheres and areas I spoke about. You asked me about Srebrenica. I never mention it, because it's too small a thing that they did to me, according to a crime some Serbs committed. As they're not ashamed of some, it's no shame to keep quiet about Jasenovac, I'm ashamed to talk about what happened to me compared to what happened to the Srebrenica victims, to be completely honest. Is it an immorality of someone's authority? I have no doubt that immorality is someone's and the irresponsibility of one's authority, as well as international representatives who have never insisted on investigating it. As far as our services are concerned, we know all the attackers. I even talked to one of them. He's from Pristina to Doboy. The man apologized and said - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I said, as far as I'm concerned, I don't have any problems and I want you and your family all the best. So, just so I'm not told by those who weren't there, that it wasn't almost an attack and that I was being shot with plastic bottles, etc. So let those who were tell you about it. But I'm telling you today that I was wearing my head high and high, not because I thought it was worth a lot, because if I thought it was worth a lot, I'd bend it and bend under the stones and kicks and legs and all the other things, but I had no right to do it, because I represented Serbia, a proud Serbian people who came to express their condolences, to lay a flower on Mesaria where many innocent people were killed, but I didn't want to allow the humiliation of the Serbian people in any way, nor collective guilt for the Serbian people. I will never accept that, to all those who impose on the Serbian people today, and I am proud to say it publicly, openly, in every place. You were saying something about what we talked about yesterday -- it's not fair, Alexander, we're not talking about it, because we agreed not to talk about that kind of thing. I would just invite those people who showed courtesy from yesterday's conversation to say whatever they think they're attacking me, but to listen to the answer, just that if I-so much in politics understand myself, by my name, I think that no one so many times, especially not so convincingly no one else has won in Serbia so many times in the multiparty elections, so I think I have the right to advise them. Don't mind critics and attacks when you have a normal policy, eventually people vote for politics, people don't vote for pictures where I eat peas and where I pet dogs, it's nice, it's all nice, people vote for content, people vote for what life you've provided for them, what futures you've provided for them, people vote for those who respect their country and who fight for their country, and not who have to participate in everyday, pointless fights, tweets and everything else. So, I'm pleased that a good part of these people respects their country and thinks well of their country, even though I didn't mean well to us, I know some others who don't think well of their country, but it's up to the people to notice and to make their own assessment. As far as adventure is concerned, I am absolutely in agreement with you. I think adventurism is something that we Serbs must avoid first of all because we have managed to bring back the winning spirit and the winning mentality, because we no longer have to win just basketball, volleyball, water polo, in shooting, in turvondo, we can win what's most important, and that's economics. We can be more successful in the vaccination. We can be more successful than others in the construction of hospitals, have the most beautiful, purest and best equipped hospitals. We can do it ourselves. We don't need anyone's help, no one's charity, but that's what we need to stay out of the way and not think we're stronger than we are. It's okay to brag about the economic results, but it's good to know where we belong in the world. That's why I don't care about those bar heroes who want to win something every other day, to set something free, but if someone else can go for them, if some other people's kids can get killed, not their kids. To go back to being the greatest traitor. Yes, for my time, the government, among other things, as well as your support and help, because you had no executive authority, you were honorably doing the work of MPs who are rarely more difficult and important than many of ours in executive power. We raised the most churches and monasteries, we helped other gods, more than ever, and mosques and Catholic and Protestant churches, we built the temple of St. Sava, we wouldn't have finished it for another hundred years, just to keep that in mind. We were building monuments from Stefan Nemanje, King Milutin, Emperor Lazar, where we had never raised them, on our great-grandfather's hearths and on KIM, and in downtown Belgrade, we never thought we'd raise a serious Serb monument, precisely because of the story of Belgrade, Zagreb and some other charters, because we always tried to reach out to everyone else and forget, and it's nice that Belgrade is a cosmopolitan city, which is a world city, that's a fact that I'm always proud of, but unlike others, I represented the country at a time when we remembered that Belgrade and the Serbian city and that we should not be ashamed of the fact that Belgrade is the Serbian capital, and that we are not ashamed of the fact that we can build a monument to King Peter Liberac in Novi Sad, although I know how much the Serbs were against it. Those are the things we did. Is that why I'm a traitor? Is King Alexander a traitor who saved our Hilandar, preserved by Prohor Pchinski? Which would worry me about his fate, knowing that in 100 years someone would talk about me the way I'm talking about King Alexander today, as the monks in Hilandar say. Go away, and praise them Apis, and go away, and give them praise to those heroes, so that you may hear what the monks in Hilandar say to you. Go to Prohor Pcinjski and ask our monasticity what it will tell you about King Alexander Obrenović. And why don't we even have King Alexander Karadjordjevic's street? Because we made up our own sins, which we don't have any historical evidence or anything else, because it's so easy for us. Only we were always good, and those who represented us never did. And who was good for us? Milos was always our fault, even though he created us a modern state, because of Karajord. Karadjorje was always guilty because he defected to the Austro-Hungarian side during the break of the First Serbian Uprising. Has anyone ever been good to us? We were making up the causes of death about Michael, saying that because of the quallery, he lied to himself, not for other reasons, about the man who got the keys to the city of Belgrade, he made the National Theatre. So we called his monument "The Remembrance of Horses." The horses are the ones who called him that. How come we didn't think to be at least a horseman, if we were stupid so we could remember it was a monument to Prince Michael? Who was good for us? King Milan, who led the standing army, trains to Serbia? Then we told him that we would destroy all the plums in Serbia with these iron horses. And who didn't we kill that didn't work for us? I'm not worried about what anyone's gonna say today, I'm worried about what they're gonna say in 50 and 100 years, that's what's driving me. To you, Mr. Dacic, let me say yes, I am proud of what we've been doing together since 2012. I'm proud of a lot of what we've done, what we've done, what we've changed the country. And to be perfectly honest, we wouldn't have done it alone if it hadn't been for your work and your participation and your support and everything else. I don't want to measure who's what, how and how much he's been doing, but certainly everything would have been a lot harder and the question is, would we have done so if it hadn't been for the support of your political party and your coalition and many good people who wanted good Serbia? On the other hand, I want to explain something that you've been talking about here, from a slightly wider context, and I won't last more than five minutes, I'll bring it to an end. Today, to reduce everything that we do here, and when you talk about institutions, to make this look like someone's main committee, it's my main committee facing the people, facing the opinion of a great part of the people. And if we're going to leave someone else's entrance to parliament because that someone thinks they deserve without getting the votes of the people, we don't think of it. Those who receive the votes of the people enter the National Assembly. It is the only way to enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you have received the votes of the people, then you are here, if you have not received the votes of the people, then you will not be in the National Assembly. What is also important to us, where you will see the difference, we are today following everything the Albanians are doing. Everything we didn't understand between 1961 and 1991 is closely followed by every statement. You saw that we know every piece of weapons and tools they have. We follow literally everything they do. I'm not ashamed to tell you, yes, we don't underestimate those who think they're our opponents, but we follow what they're doing and watch as we react. And that's why I smile when I'm told in these media outlets under the control of certain tycoons that there's little interest in Vucic's speech in Pristina. I say -- thank God, that means they're getting irresponsible, just as much as we were irresponsible here in the previous period, if that's true. I wouldn't say that if it were, not for myself, personal vanity or anything like that, I'd say exactly the other way around -- to come to what Mr. Dacic was talking about and all the hypocrisy and the withdrawal and everything else. You noticed that in the Western Balkans region, to exclude Serbia, you have Albania, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro. All have recognised Kosovo's independence. Croatia has recognised Kosovo's independence, I am talking about the countries of the former Yugoslavia, Slovenia too. Bosnia and Herzegovina is not, not because others would not recognise it, but because the Serb people and Republika Srpska, headed by their leadership, do not want to allow recognition of Kosovo's independence. So, don't have any illusions, from Bakir Izetbegovic and from Komsic we've already heard that Kosovo is independent of them. You can imagine what a hypocrite it is to say -- Kosovo is independent of us, and Republika Srpska must not think about it. Like that hypocrisy when I smiled and let go, and I didn't want to answer anything, when Ugljanin talks about how it takes special status to get three municipalities, so they'll decide their future. Well, good. I think these people want to live in Serbia. The Bosniaks, first of all, because we invest more than ever. Because no one else builds them that many roads and highways. In less than a year we will have completed the trip of Novi Pazar - Tutin 22 kilometers. We'll have a highway done in three years to Bolar, three and a half years. So, everything they dreamed of. To bring them together with both Sarajevo and Belgrade, to do everything we can for them. But where's your responsibility, people? Well, why don't you tell people there are 64 plus four Serb municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Where is your responsibility for anything or Serbia has to be responsible for all of you? To keep quiet about the nonsense that you say every day, that you say for your own damage, for the sake of your harm and pretend that we don't see, hear, understand and so on? What happened in the previous period? When there was a possibility, not a great one, but when the door was opened to some compromise between Belgrade and Pristina, half the world jumped on us, especially those who always did everything they could against Serbia's interest? What did they do first? They picked up all these little ones from the region to tell them -- you first have to plead against Serbia, that you're always the first to say something against Serbia and run a campaign against it. Now, let me ask you, since I listen every day, they say -- they're not interested in Serbia and Serbia meddling in their internal relations, and on their front pages, not even the tabloids, it says that I did a coup because I don't know what I did when the Prime Minister of Montenegro came to the Patriarch. I didn't know anything about the meeting, but it was my fault. I have no idea what I'm guilty of, but I'm having some kind of coup carried out. Now put all that aside. It's not my first time. The hundredth time I've done a coup. They say a specific coup. I've got some specific coups. Since they can't talk about a real coup, then they're all some specific coups, but leave it aside and then they say -- we're getting involved now, understand, Wolfie, so they're all working out to raise their ratings, because how else can they raise a rating if they don't say something to Wolfie? Everyone else is small for them. They're world leaders. So, from their government, he says, you have to remember Wolfie, we're an independent state, go. Well, good. So, who's bothering you? Who's bothering you? Is someone touching you? Did we confess to Boca or Blue and Goose or Beer for an independent state? Wait, you don't interfere with our country's internal affairs, and you've admitted part of Serbia's territory to an independent state, and we can't even tell you -- good afternoon, how are you, because that's why we're interfering with your internal affairs? And it wasn't enough for you, but you said it was the wrong policy, and then on the first day, you congratulated Albino Kurti, and before that, you expelled the Serbian ambassador for saying the Mojkovic battle, and then you continued with the same policy and announced the re-senting of your envoys to the "Storm" to celebrate the banishment of another 250,000 Serbs. And it's not enough, you brought a new one. You already had one Resolution on Srebrenica in 2009, so you brought another Resolution, to make it clear that the Serbs committed genocide and you still wrote in that resolution - no, this has nothing to do with collective guilt, this is individual guilt, and there are no faces, there are no individuals who have mentioned that they are guilty, but that it is known that Serbs are the ones who committed genocide. And Jasenovac, Jadovno, and what would they mention? I don't want to talk about Big, Blue and everything else. They voted on it, so they refused, because it's not crimes, it's not genocide, it's nothing. It's only the Serbs who are genocide and that's how it's supposed to be and that's how it has to be written down in history. They'll carry on with it. They will have to continue, because the only Serbia that is similar, desirable and who will be said to be advanced is Serbia, which will be a failed Serbia, Serbia failed economy, a factory with locks and chains, Serbia that will only kneel and apologize. It's not bad to apologize when you do something wrong. But don't apologize again every divine day, that we can no longer grasp what you apologize for, and that Serbia is in a growing problem with an increasing number of unemployed, with an increasing number of destroyed factories, and that you apologize only because your pockets are getting fuller and for no other reason. So we need, to understand, to build peace in the region, good relations with everyone, but to be clear to them, there is no more humiliation in Serbia. We're not interested in your independence. Do what you want, but we don't give it to you anymore! Have you noticed, dear friends, have you noticed, the honourable MPs, our dear peoples from Kosovo and Metohija, have you noticed that for the first time this year, he is not congratulating Easter in Pristina with Orthodox Serbs? You're not. We are. We're following, like I said. They used the words of Teofan Noli, founder of the Albanian Orthodox Church, which is only about their nation and where they begin with love for each other for our people, justice, etc. There is no congratulation for Orthodox Serbs anymore, because it is faith, you know, which Serbs would be special, what would you say to Serbs, what would you congratulate Serbs and Easter? Have you noticed that no one in the international community has noticed that? No one was interested. And why doesn't Camber remind him? There goes Kamberi. Why don't you remind your friend at least to congratulate Easter the way it's always been congratulated, the way we congratulate Easter to Catholics, whoever they are, Hungarians, Croats, anyone? It's just one thing. We've got a lot of other stuff, and I'm going to read you just one rape story, because I heard it here today, 20,000 raped. We have accurate data, since they keep talking about 20,000 Albanian raped women. It's hard to get involved in that. It's hard to get involved in this, because there's no more disgusting crime, there's no more disgusting thing. It's easier to take, that no one gets me wrong, that someone was badly wounded and killed than someone was raped. It's disgusting to say anything about it, but since they talk about it every day, that's what Osmani told me about on Kranj Hill, so we both reacted to Dodik and me. So they're talking about 20,000 all the time. Now I'm going to give you accurate, accurate data, so that you know based on their conclusions, based on the conclusions that their institutions have made, only that you have that information, that you can speak it in every place in the world. So, according to the UN Secretary-General's report in UNMIK on April 5th, 2021, which was submitted to the Security Council, the Commission of the Government of Temporary Institutions in Pristina, which was formed in 2018 with the mandate to verify and recognise the status of surviving victims of war sexual violence, has received a total of 1,414 persons to be recognised and the status of surviving victims of sexual violence has been recognised in 912 cases, 880 women and 32 men. The Pristina Commission has so far rejected a request for granting that status in 210 cases. So, we only ask the Pristina side to stop with the flat-rate statements and many in Serbia and many in Belgrade to stop auto-skillinism and attacks on its own people just to show that we are the worst criminals in the world. Do I condemn this terrible crime of raping 900 Albanians? Of course I'm judging, I'm threatening those people. They're not humans, they're beasts. But don't, people, make up numbers and don't just say all that to tell us, as Camberi told us today – Serbia was killing children, so they'll tell us Serbia was raping, Serbia was doing it all. It's not Serbia, that's what individuals did, and they were responsible for it, and individuals who didn't know whether they raped Serbian women in your name or in their own name, killed Serbian children, a Serb non-monetary, as you can see, didn't even care to answer. I asked the question three times, who will bring back Alexander, George, and Radoman, and who will visit their graves? And you killed their parents. Children 18, 13 and 10 years old in a bunker near Djakovica. And what did they do to you, what did they do to you? It's not hard for me to talk about Saranda the God of God, or the victims of rape, and I don't mind not hiding it from our people. And what shame are you talking about your murderers, the people who have killed entire Serbian families? What are you ashamed to talk about serious crimes? Why won't you let us dig up the murdered Serbs so that we can bury them, that their mothers and fathers can go to their graves, brothers and sisters so they can go to their graves, as we try to make sure that Albanians can go to their brothers and sisters' graves? No, because there must be only one culprit and it will always be Serbia. You can look at all the books. Rastovic has three even good books, belonging to another political party. You can also look at Theodore Toleva, many books to read, to look at. They always wanted, the smaller Serbia, the weaker the economics, the weaker the military, the more Serbia will praise it. The stronger Serbia, the stronger Serbia is, the more Serbia will attack it from all sides. So tonight I want to conclude, with everyone's gratitude for participating in today's discussion, that it's up to us to be responsible, to be serious, to be realistic, smart, but to work more and more every day to be stronger, to be able to save our country and our people at any moment to protect and protect, to know that there is no love and friendship in international relations of the great, but to have only the interests of the smaller and the large and that we don't think that anyone will ever help us ourselves. Of course we have those that are closer to us, those that are further away from us. Those who are closer to us respect, appreciate and love, those who are further respected and appreciated, we do not have to love them, but we must work with everyone in the interests of our country. As for the continuation of dialogue, we are ready for dialogue, ready to continue, ready to fight, ready for Serbia to be even more successful, to make Serbia even more advanced and to try to bring back hope to our people around the world, to the country, to ask people who have begun to return slowly to their country, to return to a greater number, to try to have more children in the future, because without children, there is no future. Then I am sure not only that Serbia is on a good path today, but that the difference between ourselves and those who are lagging behind us today will make us bigger in the future, and that the difference between us and those who are ahead of us will make us smaller, and some of the EU countries that are just ahead of us today, soon or soon, we will be able to reach out. Thank you very much for your attention. I wish you and your families all the best. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-22-0.u7729	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. According to Article 87(5), I hereby set 18.09 hours, 22 June, as a day for voting on the agenda points of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), Rules of Procedure, the voting quorum exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 210 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. The first item of the agenda — Report on the work of the Kosovo and Metohija Office in the period from May 2019 By June 2021. I've been putting this report to the vote for years. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: 211 in total for - 210, not one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, accepted the report on the work of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija in the period from May 2019 to June 2021. The second item of the agenda — REPORT ON THE CONTRACTING PROCESS WITH THE Interim INSTITUTIONS IN THE PRIOR FROM May 2019 __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ June 2021. I've been putting this report to the vote for years. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: 211 in total for - 210, not one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, accepted the report on the negotiation process with the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina from May 2019 to 15 June 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, since the National Assembly has conducted a review of both agenda points of this session and a decision on them, I just want to remind you, before I conclude the session, to continue tomorrow with a new session that has six points of the agenda, and tomorrow we will discuss the draft law on student organisation and the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. I hereby conclude the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you very much.
