ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 108 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the meetings of Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and single search on points 3, 4, 10 and 11 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Angelka Atanasković, Minister of Business, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister, Gordana Komic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, Daniela Vazura, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dusan Vukković, Assistant Minister of Business, Tatjana Stanic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Jelica Trninić Šišović, Head of Department, Sandra Tasic, Head of Department of Business and Miladin Maglov, Register of Business Entries at the Agency for Business Registers. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1), Article 170(1) and Article 172(3) and Article 157(2) respectively. Rules of Procedure, I open a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Business Companies, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Two Members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of a President and Members of the Securities Commission. Proposer representative, Minister Comic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10435	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Business Society Act. He's not the first, and probably not the last time this law changes. To begin the presentation of basic amendments and additions to which we need to exchange arguments, but more importantly than citizens and citizens of Serbia and direct users of this law being clear, accurate and unequivocally informed about what awaits them once your votes change and supplement the law come into force. I share the digression on the situation when the Business Society Act was first adopted and it took a very long time for relatively common provisions and legal norms to be introduced in the EU to Serbia, and one of the most illustrating topics was the removal of famous seals, which were legally abolished and lasted another 10 years afterwards. So, even when it doesn't seem to be innovation, these regulations bring profound changes and changes to the area they regulate. The aim of these amendments and the addition of the Business Society Act is to remove existing problems in practice and because of the fictitious false address of the headquarters of companies and entrepreneurs and the existence of what is called a phantom company in the usual speech. Could the previous law have predicted that? Is it or isn't it? In the ex post analysis we have now unquestionably found that there is simply one space not to apply the laws that imaginative people who consider the style of their lives a violation of the law enables the existence of phantom firms and these changes and additions to try to remove it from our economic and legal practice. The next amendment and addition is the introduction of an obligation for companies and entrepreneurs to register as users of electronic administration services. Generally, using the digital world always goes hard, slow. We're a few years late or a decade behind the world that started doing it. It's nothing unusual. People, by nature things are not prone to change. I'll give you an example. To come home to your homes today and enter the room and see that the furniture schedule has changed, and it's for the better, that it's much more comfortable, that it's more quality, the same furniture but the schedule is better, the first reaction will be that it's not right because it's not the way you're used to. This introduction of electronic administration, use and introduction of digital practice was more likely to come across this resistance – don't change me, let go of what it was like, the paper was great, but it was really a problem for Serbia to arrive developed European countries after that. We now have an obligation for companies to register as users of electronic administration services. The next amendment and addition is to define the non-financial role in society in the event of the purchase of a creditor as a legal person. We'll explain more later. One important amendment and addition that should remove the problems which are ex post-analysed by applying the current provisions of this law observed in practice. There are specified cases where the entrepreneur ceases to act in accordance with the law, i.e. forced liquidation of the company, i.e. entrepreneurial. The most important amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies concerning the protection of the rights of minority members are to specify provisions on forced liquidation and compliance with EU rules, with Directive 828 of the 2017 European Parliament and of the European Council of 17 May 2017 amending Directive 36 of 2007. European Communities. This is all about encouraging long-term involvement of shareholders, which implies a public society compensation policy, the identification of shareholders, institutional investors, property managers and voting advisers. How does the address of the seat, or legal framework offered to the Assembly decide whether to remove this problem from our practice? Therefore, it is specified what includes the address of the headquarters of society, i.e. entrepreneurs. It means city, municipality, settlement, street or square, home number, floor and apartment number, in accordance with the regulations governing the address register. Does this guarantee that the practice of phantom companies will definitely and forever disappear from our economic life? It would be honest to say no, but it will be reduced, so we will follow how the law is applied and if new amendments and additions of the law are to be made. It is possible that an interested person may appeal to the competent court to request the removal of the registered address of the head office of the company if the person has the right to property, if it does not allow the use of that space for the management of the company’s business. This will probably be one of the most sensitive topics in the public as well, and probably among you MPs, because it is an irreparable and necessary role of the judiciary in the application of this law, and with the preservation of all rights that has a registered firm and a person who presses charges to the competent court. It is usually the practice of more public space here to take up the topic of how this can be misused than how we can do it to help effectively apply this complaint to a competent court requiring the removal of a registered address to benefit if you want both general and public interest, and of course to the benefit of the rule of law. Generally, if you look at the debates on the laws, we are more often talking about how all certain provisions can be misused, with an example from practice of how this happens, than what is said about whose assessment of the full application of the law and the responsibilities of all those who are competent to apply the law. Furthermore, if the company does not register the new address of the seat within 30 days of the jurisdiction of the judgment, the registrar who runs the register of business entities under official duty shall initiate the emergency liquidation procedure of that company. This is the second, conditionally speaking, sensitive provision that will likely cause comments and which will likely be the subject of a debate here among you, with the aim of making the best possible assessment together whether the proposed solutions are what we want to be an ambience in which companies will work. Business companies and entrepreneurs as users of eGovernment services. An obligation shall be imposed on companies and entrepreneurs to register as users of electronic administration services, in accordance with the law governing electronic administration, therefore, the use of electronic documents by the authorities of the state administration, organisations entrusted with the exercise of public authority. This is in line with the concept of eGovernment, except where a special law is attributed to a different way of delivering electronic documents, as in the case of courts or tax administrations. It is estimated that it is our habit to use the digital world to save time, to save money, and to shorten the time it takes to do some work to prove how good it is for the economic environment, for the work of the economy, how good it is for our daily jobs as citizens, and how much work it still needs to be done to make it really routine. This obligation for users of services also implies a more efficient system of communication between state authorities and organisations entrusted with public authority with economic and economic operators. Of this lack of communication amongst people, the famous one appears – you lack one piece of paper, which no one has told you to bring or send, or in electronic communication goes under-explained enough to explain what is required of you, as a user of the authority of any electronic administration. It just takes a little will, a little patience, a little more reading and a little more awareness about how good electronic administration is for all of us. I think these members will be the easiest to pass, except for the debate of course, which is likely to be initiated by some economic operators as to why it is mandatory, for the simple reason that when it is voluntary, then it is chosen not to change the current way of doing business. Thus, it creates preconditions for the elimination of paper business and for the reduction of costs, both for the economy and for the state. I understood that yesterday or the day before yesterday you were here having a debate on changes and additions to the Law on Integrated Prevention of Environment, and that is why I'm saying that it would be very interesting to calculate how much water, wood, energy is saved, because there is no more paper in circulation in the state system, in the economy, in our personal lives and how good it is for the environment. It's just another dyspression. National Assembly Secretary General Veljko Odalovic will remember, it was our idea and attempt in 2009, when, as a kind of political struggle, almost legal, certainly and legitimate, it was the production of amendments with over 3,700 amendments and now multiply it all by 250 MPs and all other persons, how much paper was spent on something that could have been done electronically. No matter how much the economy contributes to the planet's health, save energy and preserve what it would otherwise be made of, if it accepts this obligation of electronic administration as normal, healthy and natural for the 21st century. The next change is a non-money stake in the event of the purchase of a creditor as a legal person. This is a matter of compliance with the provisions of the Banking and Management Practice Act, and it is prescribed that after the sale of the creditor, as a legal person in the bankruptcy proceedings, the value of the underlying capital of that company is registered at the level of the amount of the purchase price paid from the sale contract of the creditor and the role of the buyer as a non-money stake in the underlying capital in the value of the bought-in price paid. It may sound unaccustomed to the language complicated, but it is essentially a common routine alignment provision. At the same time, as an amendment in order to preserve the law of the prescribed minimum capital, in the light of the legal form of the purchased company, it is an obligation that, in the event that the value of the purchase price would be less than the minimum capital, the value of the underlying capital is registered to the value of the minimum basic capital prescribed for that legal form, the company's buyer is obliged to pay within six months of the date of the suspension of the bankruptcy procedure, with a lack of the amount up to the level of the minimum capital. Otherwise, an emergency winding-up procedure is being initiated against society. Whether this will fully regulate the area of purchase, the way capital is trafficked, would be naive to say that there will be no interference and problems, there will be no suspicious transactions, life claims otherwise. But what we can argue is that this will be significantly less, that compliance with the law will allow procedures to be shortened and that possible damage to, for example, public economic society will be smaller by society. As regards the emergency liquidation of entrepreneurs, there are specified cases in which the entrepreneur ceases to act in accordance with the law, i.e. the withdrawal of the permit, licence, approval, consent and other, which are specifically prescribed as a condition for registration or the case where the judicial verdict finds that the entrepreneur is not in the registered address of the seat, and the entrepreneur does not register the new address of the seat within 30 days of his right of residence. In the event of an emergency winding-up, it shall also be possible for the entrepreneur to avoid eradicating from the register if, within the prescribed period, it registers a suspension of the exercise of the registered activity during which the measure has been imposed, or registers a change in the registered activity or cancellation of the activity in the event of withdrawal of the licence, licence, authorisation, consent, which is specifically prescribed by law as a condition for registration of its activity or to register a change of registered activity, a declaration of activity, or a provision of evidence of extension of the authorisation, authorisation, approval, consent and other, and in the case of termination and authorisation and of the authorisation and of consent and other, which are specifically prescribed by law. The mandatory liquidation of entrepreneurs, as well as companies, is proposed by publication of a notice on the APR website that they have obtained reasons for eradicating entrepreneurs from the register by force of the law, calling on them to unblock the business account within 90 days of the date of publication of the notice, i.e. to remove the reason for erasure from the register. More specifically, rights and obligations are discussed during the forced liquidation of entrepreneurs. We are aware that this too will be a topic and a public debate and a topic of direct users of this law, as I hope your clarification of this good legal institute, the introduction of order. The order is good when it comes to forced liquidation, instead of being on vague terms or failures, as in the former members who are being specified, allowing you to have some kind of activity, that you can't do with that property or the owner or anything to do, simply standing in your system like wild meat, which is in healthy tissue. As regards the protection of the rights of minority members, it is prescribed to contain notices which the person who has special duties to the company shall supply to the competent authority of the company for the purpose of the reporting of transactions and actions in which there is a personal interest. The type, i.e. the legal nature of the legal transaction or of the action, the detailed description of the subject matter of the legal transaction or of the action, the value, or the price of the transaction or of the legal action in question, the time limit for the execution, payment and the like, as well as all relevant facts of the nature and scope of the personal interest. Very precisely in order to remove any doubt as to what is necessary in the protection of minority members' rights in the context of the notification in order to remove any doubt or possibility of leaving out the details needed to protect the rights of minority members. The fair value of things or rights which are subject to legal work, i.e. legal action, in which there is a personal interest of persons with special duties towards society, shall be governed in accordance with the international standard of financial reporting the basis of fair value. Then, you have the protection of the rights of minority articles to report on the fair value of things or rights and the notification provided for in Article 65 are an integral part of a decision approving business. Therefore, it is an effort to remove any doubt during the delivery of the very decision on the approval of the job so as to simply and thus build a joint effort to rule the law and remove the opportunities which we have witnessed and which the ex ante analysis of the law's application so far clearly speaks. D.o.o. and a.d. is obliged to publish publicly on its website or on the website a register of economic operators the intention of completing a legal transaction for which the authorisation is required: a detailed description of that job or action, the personal business name of the connected person, the information on the nature of the relationship with the connected person, the date and value of the transaction, as well as the information contained in the notice referred to in Article 65. 2. of this Act, immediately after the decision referred to in Article 1 has been taken, which approves the legal work or legal action in which there is a personal interest, and at the latest on the day of the conclusion of that legal transaction, i.e. the taking of that legal action. It is that famous directory of transparency, which cannot be stuck to our daily dictionary, therefore, the public, full clarity of work and that no such information is defined by the economic offense. It is also an obligation that the company shall, in its annual reports, enter into legal transactions during the financial year, or take legal actions in which there was a personal interest, for which the information on the type and subject matter of the legal work, the action, the value or price of the case of a legal transaction or of the business, the percentage of the shares, or the actions owned by the person in the company, as well as the legal person, or the other person with whom the legal business is concluded or the legal business takes over and the property of the status, i.e. the function which the person has a special duty to the company, performs in the company as well as the legal person, or another person with whom the legal business is concluded, and the legal action takes place. There are many words that probably make an impression on a normal listener – what it all means now. So, simplistically, how to keep order and how to avoid corruption, don't steal and lie. To this, these two sentences are based on an ex-ante analysis of all these members, to provide a legal framework in which people who would steal, lie and cheat to do so without being greatly tortured. Is there going to be one of these case-altering changes? Of course. It's a question of human nature and colorful human gardens, but then there will be new changes and additions to the law when we find that these changes and additions are insufficient to make their own efforts to be order in the area of economic society. The protection of the rights of minority members also implies an action for the annulment of legal work or legal action and damages against persons of personal interest in this business can also be brought in the case of an authorisation obtained and the legal work is not completed or the legal action is not taken at fair value. It shall also be specified that if the competent court makes a decision in the action under appeal to impose a measure of temporary restriction on the exercise of the right of director, member of the Supervisory Board, agent or prosecutor, the register of economic operators shall delete that person from the competent register after the judgment has been delivered. A criminal liability shall also be laid down for persons who have special duties to society and in the case where that person has obtained the authorisation of legal work or of action in the event of the existence of personal interest, and the legal business is not completed or the legal action is not taken at fair value. It is also an obligation for the company to keep all the documentation relating to the approval and conclusion of legal work, i.e. legal actions with a personal interest. It is also prescribed that in the case of a dispute initiated in accordance with this law under the action of shareholders or former shareholder, the Board of Directors, or the Executive Board which is the management of the company, should be obliged to make all acts and documents referred to in Article 464 of this Act, other than information relating to the address of the Director and members of the Supervisory Board, directly related to the subject of the dispute, available to the shareholder, or to the earlier shareholder, on his written request submitted in accordance with Article 81 of the Law, in order to make an insight and copy of his costs for the purpose of handling the case, and that the provisions of the mentioned Article 81(2) of this Act, in particular, do not specify the active documents relating to the subject matter of the dispute, are already sufficient for them to be determined. In the context of the protection of the rights of minority members, it excludes the authority of the Assembly of the A.D. to decide on the issue of approved actions, so that the Assembly can no longer delegate the authority to issue approved actions to the Board of Directors, or the Supervisory Board. Obligations are also introduced for a company that is not public and for d.o.s. that, at the request of a shareholder, i.e. a member holding shares or shares representing at least five percent of the basic capital of the company, no later than three days from the date of receipt, the same requirement shall allow the same insight into the data on the amount and structure of the total fee for each director of the executive, director and member of the Supervisory Board, if the management of the company is two-home. A commercial offence for a company and a responsible person in a company unless, at the request of a shareholder, it makes available information on the amount and structure of the total fee for each director or executive director and member of the Supervisory Board. I have sent out that there are some comments in the public about this getting into personal data, about leaving people elected to directors or executive directors without any rights other than the presentation of complete information about their personal interests, and our answer would be that it is only normal and only natural, as well as for elected, appointed or appointed persons paid out of the budget. To point out that in the case of a reduced right to privacy of all of you, all of us, all those who deal with public money or live with public money, is also the verdict of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of the Austrian Chancellor, because no one is forcing you to step up public affairs, and one of the public affairs is that of the people in the stock companies, no one is forcing you to do so. The moment you enter the public scene, you give up your voluntary private rights. This includes the obligation, in this case legally available to all documents, everything available when it comes to your personal interest. Forced liquidation - this will be interesting, especially for entrepreneurs, although there are companies that would be very interesting to review, what is now what is new in the law, which means forced liquidation, because the reasons for forced liquidation cannot be removed, as well as the mandatory liquidation procedure for all those cases. So, bankruptcy proceedings. An interesting topic will be likely to be a public debate, and also among you, whether it is well measured and whether it is well estimated that it is prescribed that if a previous bankruptcy procedure is opened during the emergency liquidation procedure, that the emergency liquidation procedure is interrupted, and if bankruptcy proceedings are opened, then the emergency liquidation procedure is not suspended. Finally, compliance with EU rules. The public company is obliged to have remuneration policies for directors and members of the supervisory board, if the management of companies is two-home. That's the part that's talking about the public business you have as director and executive director. The company’s assembly decides on the proposed compensation policy, the compensation and publication policies contained in the publication of the compensation policy on the company’s website, the economic failure to break the company’s obligations with regard to the obligation to publish a fee policy. At least once a year, the competent authority of the company must make up a clear, comprehensive and comprehensible report on all the fees that the assembly has given its decisions to supervisory committees and executive bodies. The statement of fees must be published on the Society’s website. It shall not contain specific types of personality data and a commercial offence for breach of company obligations prescribed in respect of the obligation to publish a report on compensation policy. So as for compliance with EU rules, it is prescribed that society has the right to identify its shareholders. The process of informing shareholders and society is detailed, given that actions are often held through complex chains of intermediaries, which makes it difficult to exercise the right of shareholders and can act as an obstacle to the involvement of shareholders. The aim is to improve the transmission of information along the chain of intermediaries, in order to facilitate the exercise of shareholder rights. As regards compliance with EU rules, for application from the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, the terms - institutional investor, asset manager and voting adviser - have been defined their obligations as well as the policy and engagement of institutional investors and asset managers. Given that these amendments and additions have been indicated to apply since the date of accession of the Republic of Serbia, it may seem too soon to be implemented into amendments and amendments to the law. I'll remind you of a famous Chinese proverb. To them when someone says - it's never too late, they answer - it's always later than you think. It is never early enough to agree your regulations fully with the obligations we will have when Serbia is a full member of the EU. So much for the amendments and additions to the Business Society Act. In the course of the debate, I will also present the draft law confirming the amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway. You already know that these are routine points that simply have to come to ratification in the Assembly, so let's talk about your specific questions. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10436	Thank Minister Comic for the exhaustive explanation of the changes and additions. The word is proposed by the MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10437	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members, today we have a task in front of the Finance Committee to say that we had one responsible task when it comes to proposing members of the Commission for the Protection of Vendors in Public Procurement Procedures and when it comes to the Securities Commission. When we talk about these two commissions, let me first say that the legal basis and the way the candidates are proposed is not the same. On the other hand, it should be said that the choice when it comes to candidates for the Securities Commission, given that nine members of the Commission who are composed of three major members working on second-degree complaints in matters of public procurement and protecting the rights of the bidder, should be said not to cease their mandate at the same time to all members, but to be selective. So we have now been able to out of two members, the mandate expires almost in a few days, and we have had the opportunity to start this whole process much earlier, because the way they propose or choose the first public competition. So we were obliged to launch a tendering initiative on 6 October 2021 for the selection of candidates for the two members of the Republic Commission for the protection of tenderers in public procurement procedures and after the completion of the competition, the Working Party for the implementation of this procedure, consisting of three members of the Finance Committee, or a member of the Finance Committee, had the task above all to consider all applications and to determine whether they were in line with the competition, or whether they could go ahead with the selection process or not. The competition was attended by two candidates for the selection of the first member who, under a certain Article of Law 191. Public procurement laws. So, one member is chosen according to the principle of choice under Article 191(2) and the other by the same article item 3. What's the difference? The difference is that one member is elected with a mandatory completed judicial exam, and the other member is chosen with the necessary experience of seven years of work and does not have to have a state exam passed. For us, what was interesting, first before it came as a topic in general to consider the Committee is that all the members met the conditions that applied to the competition and that the working group had made a complete account of these submitted applications for the verification and determination of the fulfilment of the conditions. She found that they were time-consuming, which is of great importance to us, complete and that when we talk about proposing a member who must have passed a judicial exam, two candidates came forward. We chose one of these, and for the other part of the competition that does not involve the passed judicial exam, two candidates appeared. We have to say that we had a conversation at the 45th session of the Committee on 14 October, and at that session we had the opportunity to talk to all the candidates. This hard work is about what you have to do with some kind of criteria, each of us in the same way that you're actually going to choose, or vote for these candidates. We have defined ourselves this time, given that we have had experience on several occasions to hear about the reports on the work of this Commission, we have also had opportunities to hear about the financial plan to hear how this Commission has been doing over the past five years, how long the mandates of the candidates who have even applied for these competitions again for the second term. Then we saw that the team he's working with was very important, and the president of this commission. Two members of these four were part of that team. We have indeed defined ourselves to give them advantage. Why? Because in their presentations they presented that part of the work they were doing and who really made that step when it comes to public procurement and the protection of bidders in the process itself. That is why we have decided that the proposals for the selection of these two candidates are Jelena Stojanovic and Svetlana Razic. When we talk about Jelena Stojanović, first of all, and when we have asked the question of how they see the promotion of the Commission's work, through a possible election, by reelection in the next term, then we should say that we have really received adequate answers, first of all to what was done and when it comes to European integration and when it comes to the reduction of that period, in general complaints and the processing of the objects themselves and what we had based on their biographies to see it is that they have had a really great experience. When we talk about Jelena Stojanovic, then it should be said that the number of cases that she has as a member of the Commission has handled 550, of which 60 complaints, 12 statements, 38 lawsuits, of which only one has been challenged. It should be said that indeed this number of cases speaks of the fact that work is really required in this Commission, because the number of cases has been reduced for years, but the efficiency and effectiveness of this Commission's work has increased. Apparently, one of the members, or one who has passed a judicial exam, such as Jelena Stojanovic, took part in it. The second candidate decided by the Committee, Svetlana Razic. Its activities in the Commission itself were more focused on international co-operation. It should be said that she really actively participated in Chapter 5 and was a public procurement reporter. Of course, she also took part in reporting the part about public procurement, so-called. green public procurement and public procurement in innovation. She was a member of different working groups when it comes to the legislative framework, but especially when it comes to European integration, but also this part of the public-private partnership. What is important is to say that it has participated in the creation of many articles and the launch of this newsletter from this area that is of great importance, especially for institutions that want to be informed and constantly monitored and educated for the area of public procurement. She also participated in the design of the case. She had 886, with a number of 594, 81 complaints and 61 complaints, when it comes to the protection of bidders in public procurement procedures. I think that the proposal in general, when we talk about these two candidates, is indeed in the function of effective work by the Commission itself, to achieve better results, but also to coordinate with the European integration policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to align with the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself, because you cannot work effectively if you really do not have co-operation with all relevant institutions in this area. Therefore, the Commission itself has shown that it does have good results in this direction. This, after the European Commission's own assessment, which had the opportunity to assess the work of this commission, proved to be really one of the important factors in the functioning of the legal system and protection at all, when it comes to public procurement procedures, because this sector itself is very demanding, as you know, whether we are talking about public procurement from the sector at all, say, construction, realisation of very important strategic projects or we are talking about the area of health, which was a very important sector for the past year when it was a pandemic, even today when we are talking about it, whether it's about the education sectors or it's about the sectors of culture, sport. As you can see, this area is intruding in all areas of society, and it is therefore very important that we have, above all, and the competences that the Commission is carrying out, that this is done in a very transparent way and that it is in line with European integrations, because don't forget that Chapter 5 is one of the first chapters, after Chapter 32, which refers to financial control, it is open, and it is just open because we have made the greatest progress in this area. And, of course, on that path, people who took part in all this should be given support for the next term. We, by the way, asked for the urgent procedure to be put on the agenda today and for the selection of members of the Securities Commission, because we considered it necessary to really comply with the law in each of our segments, which is, in fact, the fact that on 24 November, the term of office of the Securities Commission stands out. We started the procedure on time. What would be bad, is that, let's say, and the budget in the debate is coming to us, that we do the selection of these members after that deadline, because we want to ensure the continuity of the functioning and legal trail of this commission. This is why today, as a staff issue, we wanted this topic to be found as a Committee on Finance, together with the selection of candidates when it comes to the Commission for the Protection of Providers in Public Procurement Procedures. On November 2nd, we discussed and discussed at the 47th session of the Finance Committee with candidates for the selection of the president and members of the Securities Committee. Since the Commission, so on October 5th, we sent letters to the presidents of all parliamentary groups, so this is not the principle of work so that the competition is called, but the proposals of the parliamentary groups, to give their candidates, proposals for presidents and members, no later than 25 October, means almost a month before their term of office expires. We asked for a plan to be delivered. The President of the Securities Commission is obliged to give, in spite of his biography and all those documents required, to give and the Commission's work plan, i.e. how he sees the work of the Securities Commission. Legislative group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, she made a proposal, as well as the SPS. Proposals for candidates for the President and members of the Commission were submitted to the parliamentary groups of all members of the Committee and, of course, they were in the E-Parliament system, so that they were available to all Members to see it from the moment the documentation was delivered. In accordance with Article 203(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, before the election of the president and the members of the Commission, had an obligation to organise the conversation. We organized that conversation with all the candidates. I must say, six candidates have been proposed, that the Committee has proposed five candidates. For the President of the Securities Commission, we have proposed so far the President Mark Jankovic, who has shown his biography, but also his work, above all, that he has great experience in this area and in the previous term has indeed been a proactive participant in the development of many legal solutions proposed by the Ministry of Finance here to the Serbian Parliament. I will remind you that it was the Open Investment Funds Act, the Alternative Investment Funds Act, you remember the new Accounting and Audit Act, as well as the Stock Exchange Act and the last one last year in December and public debate, which is the Digital Property Act. I think that, too, the Commission has shown that it is really moving forward with time and that what was one bad position in Serbia in general because of the economy that was due to recover from 2013 until today, that conditions are being created to develop a large, strong capital market, in fact, it has shown that it has obviously taken five years to prepare and all conditions for such a thing. What we have also announced through the framework plan of work, but not only the president, the candidate for the President of the Commission, but also the other members with whom we have held the conversation, that in 2022 -- the year of the turnover in this area, precisely because a certain percentage of our Belgrade stock exchange is certain that already certain investors from abroad will buy it, that this will result in the launch of the market itself. It's not possible, of course, that you don't have this developed economy of the state. It is not possible that you do not have such good economic results as Serbia shows year by year, especially as it has shown this high growth rate and a really high level of public investment in this year, year after the pandemic. That's what shows the trend and the budget proposal for next year. It is important to say that Mr Jankovic, in addition to participating in the draft new laws, has shown great activity in initiating, which is one of the strategic documents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the adoption of the Capital Market Development Strategy, exactly what I said, in order to create conditions for major changes in 2022, i.e. to revive the stock market in a completely new way. It is then important to say that there is a new law on ownership, which would protect the rights of small shareholders. Then, strengthening human capacities, i.e. one full reorganisation of the Commission itself, so that it could deal with all the new powers and new jobs it has received and establish a quality control system that we have had the opportunity to hear from the president himself. What is mentioned in his work plan, in addition to those competences and the situation of the market in 2020 and during the pandemic, has shown that, despite having had a time of work of institutions in which many processes have stopped, the Commission has not sat down because it has been working on an intensive improvement in the work of the capital market for a year and years after the pandemic and, in fact, with the Ministry of Finance, developed these strategic documents, when it comes to the Strategy, but also the Action Plan. It is important to say that the work of the Commission itself is seen in certain parts to be improved, not only by reorganisation itself, but by setting up a stronger internal audit, and you remember that these are recommendations every time the Committee makes certain recommendations, when it is in collaboration with the DRI, it must establish a stronger internal audit in the work of all institutions. The Securities Commission considers that there is indeed a need to establish a stronger internal audit. Of course, a greater public presence when it comes to this subject. A plan of certain activities has also been developed, as well as the measures to be taken. When it comes to the proposal for other candidates, the Committee decided to propose, in addition to President Marko Jankovic, for members Mirjana Ivosevic, Irena Radulovic, Nemanja Ristic and Aleksandr Stojanovic. It was interesting on the Committee to say that in a conversation each of the candidates, besides the president himself, had repeated many things, but in their own own way. So they didn't repeat themselves by the system how, what to do in the way he did, let's say, the president or one of their colleagues, but each of them gave a picture of themselves and their vision of how to improve it, and essentially, when you look at it, they actually gave the same plan. That's why I think the proposal that we're being identified for was like that. I have to say, it's been really hard for us to choose from five candidates four for members because somewhere they're all equally involved in the work of the Commission itself. Two members, for example, have been members of the Council so far, but will remain, because they also come from the Commission itself from certain positions, and the two members who are now members of the Council have been some kind of control, or inspectors in the Commission itself. So we didn't come out of the theme domain. We have chosen people who really know their jobs and I must say that some specificities in their exhibitions, say, have been given by Mrs Ivosevic, when it comes to Chapter 6 and Chapter 9, and where she says that we are otherwise commended by the European Commission for participating in these chapters. When it comes to this topic at all, it takes more public education for people to get this topic not too professionally in public than for all citizens to have the opportunity to get involved in the capital market, when it comes to different roles and that more public participation is needed, but that way that can be done is education itself. When it comes to Ms. Irena Radulovic, it should be said that her view that the Commission must be a development generator, of course, is the opinion of all members, but she simply perceived her position on it. Right now, and we heard that from the president, during a public debate on a new law on the capital market, which will come here to the Assembly and which should also be fully in line with European directives, but also with standards applicable to developed countries, when it comes to the capital market, but what Mrs Radulovic was working on, as inspector, is obviously a risk of money laundering, as well as fighting terrorism and through surveillance, she had the opportunity to do a lot of this as an inspector. We had a chance to hear that certain 73 agencies were under direct surveillance, too, doing their job well. That's where she showed she's got a lot of experience in this area. When we talk about Mr. Nemanja Ristic, who is also one of the candidates, he was in the position of inspector. He used to be with the Agency at the secretary's post. He stated that it is necessary to carry out preventive and to monitor these risks, as well as underlegal acts, and it is very important that the way in which small shareholders are informed must be improved, that the Commission itself expects a dynamic period of next year and that full reorganisation is needed, he even made a good proposal, and I have found that this is interesting for all members of the Council and the Commission chosen by the National Assembly, which is that certain measurable criteria of the work of the members themselves should be introduced. Usually the President of the Commission, elected here, is given the greatest burden, and above all because a person is authorised, and also because certain members of the Council can work in certain areas, but can only participate in the work of the Council. It is always good to have some measurable results and criteria for the work of members themselves. That is exactly why we choose them for the next term or we do not choose them. It is important to say, in the end, that Alexander Stojanovic's proposal, as one of the members of the Committee on Securities of Values, is that the desire to launch the Stock Exchange is a whole new way, especially since he is, in his 14-year experience as a broker, and five years as a member of the Commission, is adequate to say and believe that these people who have dealt with this job, when they see how shallow and inactive, or passive, that is, how little they say, it is a big problem for them, because they would want Serbia to go through big developed countries in this area. So what he said is that support should be given to the capital market, support to the personnel, and support to Serbia's digital economy. I think that we have shown this in fact that we want to refresh the composition of the Commission itself in a certain way, and yet that no one here is less valuable in terms of their work. Everyone stays in the Commission and the members and the proposed candidates, and I think that will ensure a major improvement in this area. We will have opportunities here to discuss this issue when it comes to the legislative framework. I think we have a good choice, that is, when it comes to a proposal to elect these candidates, and I think we will have a chance to see the results of this work and to propose such candidates. So I call on all MPs to vote on these proposals made by the Committee at today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10438	I thank my colleague Tomic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Elvira Kovac, president of the Committee on European Integration, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10439	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, Minister of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is known on 19 June 2017, adopted a negotiating position of the Republic of Serbia for an Intergovernmental Conference on the Accession of the Republic of Serbia to Chapter 6 – the right of business companies, which the Republic of Serbia has committed to assume in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia legal assets of the European Union from the area of co-operative law, with which the domestic regulations of this area have not been in line with until now or until then, and the Committee on European Integration certainly welcomes the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies which are now before us, the implementation of this obligation, or those with them, are further alignment with the provisions of Directive 2017-898 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017, which has actually been amended since 2007, Directive 2007-36, which is in particular to encourage long-term engagement of shareholders. As we know, the European Union has common rules on requirements for both the establishment and registration of companies, as well as on conditions for disclosure of information, with additional rules on accounting and financial reporting and legal audit. These days when we talk about the European Commission Report, which was published on 19 October this year, we are looking forward to it and we discussed it at a session of the Committee on European Integration two days ago, which is one of the areas where we received a good assessment, so I quote the report itself – Serbia has a good level of preparation in the area of the rights of companies and during the reporting period which has been the last year from the middle of last year to the middle of this year, a good assessment has also been achieved, a good progress by adopting sublegisl acts related to the accounting law and the Law on Auditing, which is not less important for the Charter Commission of values now fully established as a public audit authority. What is proposed in the Report of the European Commission, that it is necessary to coordinate in the area of the Business Society Act, which we are actually doing now, so we certainly welcome these proposed amendments and additions. Furthermore, the European Commission's report says that in the coming year, so in this period, the Republic of Serbia needs to carry out further harmonisation with the European Union's legal assets in terms of companies, including the takeover of companies and the rights of shareholders and take further legislative steps to comply with the requirements for transparency for listed societies, which is how the Ministry worked, and so we have done our part of the job. With regard to the rights of companies, the legislation of the Republic of Serbia is largely in line with the legal assets of the European Union. As regards the takeover of companies since 2020, the full harmonisation that we are now implementing has been planned. Full harmonisation of the new law on the takeover of stock companies and related acts is planned. Serbia has drawn up a proposal to amend and supplement the Business Society Act. This has already been established in the very report that has been appended, no matter what period it refers to, several days before the publication itself, they introduced this information on the long-term engagement of the shareholders themselves. I say once again, the report stressed the need for further harmonisation of the business society law from the current 2019 law on legal assets, with regard to the use of digital tools and cross-border operations. Since we are already talking not only about chapters but also about clusters today, it is important that if we view this through Cluster 2 – the internal market, progress has also been made in harmonising legislation in the area of company rights, freedom of movement of labour and freedom to provide services. We all know that this cluster is really crucial for Serbia's preparation for the EU's internal market and is of great importance for the development of the common regional market. Let me not forget to point out once again Chapter 7 - the protection of intellectual property, because this is the part where we get a good grade. It has been estimated that a good level of preparation and that limited progress has been made in this period. Therefore, as we have pointed out on the Committee, I welcome these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10440	Thank you. The president of the Committee on Economic Affairs, MP Veroljub Arsic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10441	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to point out that ten years ago, when it comes to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Business Society Act, businesses and shareholders were bypassing Serbia in a wide port. And those shareholders and companies that were in Serbia at all costs wanted to get out of the economic and economic system of the Republic of Serbia. If that were the case, just to remind you that one of the first to escape from Serbia was "US Steel" or owner of the then-Smederjere Iron in Smederev "Sartid". And they should not be resented for running from the Republic of Serbia, because the regime led by Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic, Miskovic, Solak, then allowed inflation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to be two figures. So 10 and more percent. I would love to see them claim that our GDP was very low in 2020, so that's why it dropped 0.9%, to see what it was 10 years ago during their government and to explain to us why even the smaller GDP fell 4%. We should not be surprised that companies and shareholders either visited or fled Serbia because the rate of dinars per euro lost about 10% each year. We should not be surprised that shareholders and companies fled Serbia ten years ago, because we just need to remember that Miskovic and the Delta company took over the road companies, how they owed them, transferred the money to their companies, and those road companies pushed into bankruptcy, in which, I suppose, in their passion, indifference of untouchableness, because they worked with a corrupt, corrupt and thieving regime led by Djilas, Jeremic, Šolak, convinced themselves that it was stronger than the law. He didn't even pay his taxes. In such a country, no serious shareholder, no serious company wants to be. Now there are other times and some other winds. Since SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic started reform, above all, our economic system. Mrs. Komic, you have greatly entertained me in one part of your discussion, when you spoke about the executive directors and the rights of small shareholders and compared us with them. We account for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in any subsequent election, whether they are regular or premature, but I don't know how much haughtiness these directors feel that whoever gave them 5% of the capital, the companies they run, has no right to know what their salaries are. Five percent is a relative term. There could be several thousand dinars, there could be several thousand euros, and there could be several million euros. There's nothing more natural that whoever gave the money knows how much money he's got, how much money he's making, how much of it, the people who use that money, and how much money he's going to be left with. So I really don't understand that notion and their fact that they may be exposed, that their privacy has been violated. No, because it is natural that whoever gave the money knows that the money is available and that is just another step towards proving that Serbia is a legally secure country and that it has a round-up legislation when it comes to the work of companies. My colleague, Elvira Kovac, spoke about the compliance of our legislation with EU legislation. Someone's gonna say, well, well, here we go again. Well, it's not just because of compliance with the EU, because a large number of shareholders, we expect to invest in our healthy businesses, in our healthy businesses, right from the EU countries. And it is perfectly natural that the first thing they look at will be whether our laws are in line with EU directives. Also, not only future shareholders in terms of companies that already work in Serbia, but also in terms of opening up new companies, because Serbia today is a place that does not bypass neither companies nor shareholders, but it is a place where it is desirable to start a certain activity in various areas and, of course, that such a launch requires and a very good regulation in whose direction and goes this law on amendments and additions to the Business Society Act. That is why the Committee on Economy also felt that the National Assembly should adopt this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10442	Thanks, buddy. Before we continue today's work, one notice about today's work, the announcement is next. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's MP Milija Miletic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10443	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I will, as I did yesterday when I am the time of our parliamentary club that makes up the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the USS, a time of 20 minutes, leave the late colleague, friend, vice president of the Assembly, academic and Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, because he has been here in the Assembly for the last year, in recent years, shown what it means to be an MP, which means to be a man, because everyone and those who loved him and those who didn't love him, they all respected him, and that's why I leave this time to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10444	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10445	Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs. Comic, here you are Minister of Human and Minority Rights. Today, for the second time in a short period of time, you are changing a colleague who is here in charge of the economy and, of course, it is justified to be absent. I'm glad you can see in front of your ministry what the situation is like right now in the Assembly. In front of the Assembly, you are once again a lady in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we had ladies, Mrs Elvira Kovac and Aleksandra Tomic, who represented the committees of the Assembly, with the exception of, of course, my colleague Veroljub Arsic, and if they are respected women's rights somewhere, they are certainly here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the beginning, the Honorable Chairman, I want my discussions, regardless of what I was in the JS delegation at our dear fellow Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, I need to be here from this place, first of all from his post, to give him the last greeting. It is certain that he will miss his family most, it is not a question, it will miss his town of Novi Pazar, it will miss the Bosniak community, but it is certain that he will miss all his colleagues here too. He's going to miss those discussions that were always interesting, and he's kind of easy on them here in his own way, and it's been understandable and drinking to everyone. Once again, I just want to say that we'll only remember him for the good things. When we talk about today's agenda and when we have a law regarding companies, maybe the correctest thing was my colleague Arsic and I'm going to single out what, all the discussions were in place, of course, but what got me the attention and what it's good for us all to support the changes in this law, that's first of all that we're going to give small shareholders more rights. Of course, it's not the only change, the minister was detailed there, along with all the other changes that I can say more are formal and that the trail of things that follow each other, what we're going to do, is actually give greater rights to small shareholders is the essence of this change. We need to be realistic and honest that every change in the company law never contributes to people who run companies, and that is understandable, because every change causes some of the actions that they will have to do, as Mrs. Comic says in her discussion, that it may not be so that nothing would change, but the fact is that these changes should not be much, we do not often, and we need to be realistic and correct there. We need to, what I'd say, collect more stuff and then in one breath to sort it all out. When we talk about the economy or the economy at all, how it's kind of more acceptable to citizens when we talk about the terminology itself, I just want to remind everyone that this economy is actually a social activity that, in a narrow sense, involves production, means distribution, exchange, consumption. Main economic activities include, above all, agriculture, mining, construction, crafts, traffic, trade and tourism. What's most important is that in fact, the economy is the base of every state, the existence of every state, because through all economic activities, all economic activities of the state come to a tax that is absolutely necessary for every system to function, means health care, education, military, police, etc. Of course, we automatically associate that the better life of every Serbian citizen is as much as our economic activity is better. For this very reason, we are always praising anyone who is responsible for opening at least one job in the Republic of Serbia, especially in these difficult times. When we talk about the public sector, it's kind of a conditioned obligation for every society, we can't do without the public sector, and the real sector is something without which the public sector can't function. But to be realistic and honest with each other, the fact is that the public sector is kind of, let's just say the simplest, suffocating. Not now, it's our 40-year illness. Real to be, it's been slowly correcting these past few years, but the fact is, as I would say, in one household, it's hard for everyone to earn as much as one can spend. That's what's always looking for some rationalization. When I say that it is important to bring investment and new jobs to the table, I must always quote as a positive and good example of JS President, the president of my parliamentary group, Dragan Markovic Palm, who has been doing this job since 2004. Someone can challenge him, someone can like him, they may not like him, but what he kept saying and why he was always getting support amongst the citizens is exactly what he's constantly trying to create new jobs for. He's not here today, he'd probably be talking today about this topic in front of the Single Serbia Group, he's with a delegation today on an official visit to Vienna. They are at Mrs. Anja Hoffman, who is president of the Friends Group between Austria and Serbia. Of course, this visit was also informed by Parliament President Ivica Dacic, and Dragan Markovic is ahead of our group of friendships between Austria and Serbia. What is very important for the economy, which is that these information relating to business activities have to circulate quickly, must be readily available to all. What I want to praise today is also the work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which has been very engaged in recent years, and certainly to direct all those who are involved in the business or are owners of companies to come through them to the information they need for all their activities. I want to share with you an experience, which is from the official trip to China, where I was a member of the delegation led by Zarko Obradovic in front of the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group. They were colleagues from all the parliamentary groups and we had the opportunity to hear that both in Beijing and Shanghai, at that time, a few years ago, we received space from the People's Republic of China, we got cars and all the necessary equipment to improve co-operation between China and Serbia. What was unusual to me at the time, and what surprised me and the other members of the delegation, was that all these rooms were closed, because almost no one had any information that we had these rooms on board. So I'm saying, it's important that the information circulates quickly between all of us, that simply every single person in the business knows what he can do. Agriculture is the most important economic activity, and that is why we in Unity Serbia and say that the peasant gentleman is a agricultural producer and everyone in some business knows that today is very, very difficult to find a worker when we talk about any area of the economy, and it is certainly the most difficult to find agricultural workers. It's not easy, I said, economics to meet all the needs of the state, but what our job is to always, as someone who exercises the control role of the executive government, we influence this home to behave as rationally as possible in the public sector. The government's obligation is to keep the environment in line with business activities. The proof that the government is doing its job well is also this law that is here today on the agenda. It is our duty to adopt these laws, correct, correct if there is a need for such interventions. But what is further government activity when it comes to this economic environment, and the government of the Republic of Serbia passed that test, these are some of the emergency situations that are happening. We had and now we still have a situation with this pandemic of Kovid and it is certain that the economy was not easy, as well as all other areas, of course, to function in such a state. What's good, it's a quick government intervention that's found a way to meet in every area and every segment of the economy. I am now not going to list here, of course, all the help that the government was giving and which are still being given, which is very important, because there were few countries in the environment that managed to organize so quickly. We have said here many times that the most difficult burden of this pandemic and what happens to Kovid has been borne by health workers. That's right, that's for sure. I mean, it wasn't easy for anyone here, but somehow we've all gone over the fact that the economy has also suffered very severe blows. You know that at one point the lockdown movement was disabled, that the factories at one point stopped and that it wasn't easy to run all that. And today, when these circumstances or I can say the measures have fallen a little bit, the economy isn't easy to function. I mean, when everything is normal and everything works the way it's supposed to be not easy to be competitive, and imagine what challenges everyone faced at the moment of the lokdown or the beginning of the pandemic, when more or less everything was uncertain what was going to happen. Therefore, when it comes to this Business Society Act, I am for it, as well as the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, that business should always be facilitated. I'm glad we're going to give small shareholders more importance, and we're going to support this first law. When it comes to the second point, which is the bill to confirm the amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, this is somehow related to what I was talking about. The aim is to bring the rules on the origin of goods and the Free Trade Agreement between Serbia and the EFTA State into line. So, EFTA is the European Free Trade Association, founded in 1960 in Stockholm. At that time, the founding countries were Austria, Denmark, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Afterwards, Iceland and Finland joined together. In fact, the EFTA today numbers four members, I'm not just going to say, but significantly less than the number that was at the founding of the EFTA. The reason is because a number of countries have joined the EU. But, Madam Minister, where I ask for your attention, you are constantly representing European values, and that is fine, you see that a number of these countries have come out of Europe. It's not exactly where honey and milk flow, as someone knows how to say, because the problems we're facing we're meeting, and they're meeting more or less everyone. Those who have entered the European Union can share with us the experience of being there now, but somehow I haven't noticed for all these years back since we have a desire and a tendency to be a member of the EU, except that they're constantly adding something new to us from the obligations that we need to meet, and you see that we're constantly meeting some of these obligations, I have a situation that I don't understand how none of them have questioned how it worked in our union called Yugoslavia, because we have more experience, and how this union has come together and what happened, what were the consequences when that union fell apart. Every co-operation and every agreement is good. Of course, and we're going to support this agreement, and I can say that, when it comes to the municipality of Vranjačka Banja, from which I come, there is a brotherly agreement, a fraternization agreement with a Norwegian municipality called Hatfield. We have so far had more of these exchanges of delegations and trust me every time, since we are physically distant from each other, we have had positive experiences both from one and the other delegation. So, you always have to initiate and encourage in some positive way and small municipalities and cities and, of course, the state to sign as many agreements as possible, because of all these agreements that nobody has ever had any damage, we could all benefit from something smaller or greater. This agreement is specifically about agricultural products, but since we talked about the economy, it is very important that we use these channels of this fast business communication. What always pleases me when I go somewhere else or on another continent is that when you enter the chain of some large markets there you are surprised when you meet a Serbian product. I'm sure you've had very often the opportunity to meet there and see on the shelves and the Jaffa and the plasma, the manchmello, the banana cream and all those products that I can say, from the older generations, through mine to these younger ones, we all know. That's good, when we can use the leverage of diplomacy to help the economy. We in Unity Serbia have constantly praised the current president of the Ivica Dacic Assembly, who was the foreign minister in the past term, whose term of office withdrew 18 recognitions, according to an independent state of Kosovo. Neither is Kosovo an independent state nor will it ever be, but here you can see that diplomacy has produced excellent results. Of course, Mr Selakovic is also doing it in a good way today, in a little different circumstances certainly, but he does it in a good way and in the future you will see the results of this work. It is also suggested that this diplomacy of ours, which does much more difficult things than promoting the economy, if it is possible to use it to better promote the economy, because it will certainly help all of our embassies, and there are many thanks to God, to help the economy to come together with common forces to conquer new markets. There, from my discussion, at least when these two laws are at stake, it is evident that the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10446	I thank you, colleague Vujic, and for your observation of women's activities in the National Assembly, but also in the Government. We will try to be as active and visible as possible in the future. The president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, now has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10447	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to discuss once again in a series of laws relating to businessmen, the implementation of business activities. All these laws go hand in hand to our businessmen, especially when we talk about the part that concerns improving the conditions for their business and a more favourable economic environment. I will remind you that we have recently discussed and adopted the Law on registration procedure at the Business Registers Agency, as well as the Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners. All this has contributed, and it will only contribute in the next period, when it comes to full application, that beginners have great reliefs when they enter entrepreneurial waters. First of all, they will be able to register companies in a more favourable way, faster, more efficient way, they will also achieve certain savings and in time, they will achieve savings in money and, most importantly, they will not have to collect the documentation necessary for the implementation of their rights, when we talk about the establishment of a company, but they will do so by the competent authorities and, accordingly, we have already agreed on deadlines concerning rejection or acceptance of applications for entrepreneurs, which is very important for anyone who is starting to deal with a particular business. In this context, I observe and amend and supplement the Business Society Act and they have the same goal – to facilitate business for entrepreneurs. It is important from the beginning that businessmen have as little obstacle as possible when entering the market, but on the other hand, and the task of the state is to listen to the market, to listen to needs and businessmen, to the needs of employees and, accordingly, to the Assembly's MPs to react and to bring certain legal changes. We achieve three goals by amending and supplementing the Business Society Act. The first goal is to strengthen the rights of minority owners, when we talk about action societies. The second goal that we need to achieve is to remove certain shortcomings that occur in practice, and above all, and the minister has just explained this, first and foremost, to the existence of phantom companies, we know for ourselves how harmful it is on any market, anywhere in the world, who is seriously involved in the economy, the existence of such firms, primarily because of the avoidance of tax payments, and of course because of the creation of a distorted picture of the economy of a particular country. The third objective is to bring our legal legislation in line with the standards that apply in the Member States of the European Union, and we often do so here. I always point out that it's not just about pro-forming to do it, it's important for ourselves, it's important for our country, whose economy is and how it's based on the economy of the European Union. We cannot ignore the fact that European Union countries are the most significant external trade and investment partner of the Republic of Serbia and that the development of our economy is and that it relies on all the economies of successful countries that are in the European Union. Especially when we talk about these successful economies, I mean Germany and Italy, which are so business with Serbia that they are ahead of foreign trade. This proved true during last year when there was a difficult situation in the whole world regarding the pandemic and which reflected on the economy. We have seen even then, regardless of certain interruptions in external trade flows, that we could still rely most on the countries of the European Union and the European Union was our most serious partner, so it is no wonder that we agree our laws with the standards that apply in the European Union. I will say that in 2020, the European Union was the first and most important export market, that 64% of our products, i.e. goods and services, placed on the European Union market, that is over 11 billion euros, and only the next market on which we placed our goods is the CEFTA market, with a participation of 17% in our exports. Just because the European Union has the highest participation in Serbia's total exports, it is obvious that the type of goods placed on the market has a dominant impact on the export structure of our goods that we place there. When we talk about improving business conditions, what they should contribute to changes and supplementing the Business Society Act, we need to know that this is important on the one hand and because of our country's ratings, specifically because of the business rating, whose assessment is given by the World Bank, as our international partner, but it is important for us to create a better environment for ourselves, and it has proved in the previous period that, by changing legal norms and our efforts, we have made such an atmosphere in terms of economic movements that is constantly increasing our GDP. Also looking forward to the news days ago that 60% of investment in this part of Europe that comes from abroad ends right in Serbia. This is the best indicator of good work and making the right decisions. A stable political and legal framework is the basis for further economic progress. Serious large companies coming to Serbia, and apparently they're coming, they don't want a risk. Every serious company wants to operate on longer routes, regardless of whether the profits are lower, but wants one and a political and legal stability. In this context, I am also looking at amendments and additions to the Business Society Act, because in this way we are sending a clear signal that we are a serious state, that we have serious laws and that all businessmen operating on our market can count on clear and predictable business conditions. When investors identify where they will invest, they take a lot of factors into account. Whether it's gonna be a greenfield investment, a brownfield investment, everyone has their own account, but in any case it's very important that both the state and local self-governments that expect foreign companies, but also domestic companies do their best to ensure business conditions. Every company, every company that defines where to operate takes care of being a good traffic infrastructure, being near the highway, that's what the state's been working on for the last few years intensively. I can give you a good example from my city, from the King, where he has now functioned to one end, to Preljina, the highway "Milos the Great". The works are under way on the Preljina-Pojate section, where the highway will pass the Chačka, Kraljev, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kruševec. The very idea that the highway is close to these cities and that there is an increased traffic infrastructure, that Morava Airport is open at the Kings, was a good signal to investors and two factories were opened in the Kingdom itself where more than 6,000 people were employed. That means a lot to this part of Serbia. There's a similar situation in Chačka. This is particularly important for this part of Serbia, as many people lost their jobs during the economic transition, many people lost their jobs in these companies that employed several thousand people. It is certain that all concessions given by local self-government to investors in the longer run and how they pay off. After all, the success of each government and government is measured by how many people are employed, or how low unemployment is, how much wages are increased, what is the standard of living, what is purchasing power. Yesterday, we had a public hearing here in the Small Hall of the Serbian Parliament, where the budget for next year was presented and it is indeed commendable that from 2022 the minimum earnings will be increased by 9.4%. Somewhere there's always criticism that it can be even more, but criticism is welcome. In any case, the most important thing is to work gradually, to take it one step at a time, to have a clear plan, a good plan, and to stick to that plan when we talk about economic development. It is important that there is an agreement between the state, between the unions, between employees and that the Social-Economic Council works in the right sense and in full capacity. The business of every company, of course, when we talk about an increase in wages depends on employees. Certainly, a satisfied, well-paid worker will be better motivated, it directly affects productivity, the competitiveness of businesses, and the business of our businesses must be based and we must be aware that we must work to apply modern management methods, to make businesses more competitive, to be more flexible, more innovative. At a time of globalisation and expressed economic integration, competitiveness is increasingly gaining importance, i.e. this topic is taking hold of primate, when we talk about economic flows. The competitiveness of the company depends also on the business environment and it is therefore important to develop and cultivate a favourable economic environment. A key role in improving the business environment, of course, has a state, because it needs to provide conditions for attracting foreign capital. In this way, attracting foreign capital, or in this financial context, we can say that we are overcoming the main obstacles involved in the development of company competitiveness and when we provide it, and I think we are doing it in the right way, and by making such changes and supplementing the law, we can further develop the economy, that businesses are such that they are characterized by a high level of knowledge and excellent business performance. My colleague spoke of it earlier and commended it, and I will commend, a timely state reaction to give assistance from the republican budget to businessmen who were most threatened during the pandemic of the coronary virus and that is the help that came at the right time. We saw that she gave good results, first of all, that we kept the level of employees, which did not result in the layoff of workers, which remained the same level of economic activity, and that the biggest aid came to those sectors that were most vulnerable, which are primarily tourism, catering, transporters and not counting further. Finally, I will also refer to an agreement signed by the Republic of Serbia with Norway, which concerns the area of agriculture. Norway is not a country characterized by agriculture, only 4% of its territory is a processing area, but in any case, we can always, whenever we talk about any co-operation, share experiences with other countries. We can use their good practice when we talk about state subsidies. Norway is characterized by the fact that it subsidises domestic producers and protects the domestic market in such a way that it does not often allow imports of certain products on the side unless there is a need for such products on the domestic market. So as long as there are domestic capacities, they always give priority to domestic products. We can boast that we successfully place honey on the Norwegian market and thus create a recognizable brand on that market. It is the merit of both our countries and good co-operation with Norway, but I must also point out the Norwegian society in Serbia, which and how it promotes, for example, specifically in this case, the good characteristics of our honey placed on their market. Often in public you can hear that agriculture is our development chance and it shouldn't be a floscule, it should really be one thesis on which we need to conjecture a serious branch of our economy. Agriculture in our total GDP participates almost 10%, which is a major part. Hungary, which has much more fertile land than we do, has a share of agriculture in the total GDP almost twice as much, but of course, it does not have to be a clear indicator for everything else. Simply, this says that our agriculture as an economic branch is more efficient than other industries and that it can serve as a good example to other industries how to strengthen their efficiency. For that, of course, it is necessary, and to go back to the beginning, to amend and supplement the Business Society Act, to make it the state that will create a better economic environment for the development of the economy. To end, which is logical, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the proposed amendments to the laws and agreements on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10448	I thank the president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia MP club, Mr Branimir Jovanovic. Next up is the representative of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, Daniel Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10449	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today next to the rest of us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Society. As we have heard, this proposal is of particular importance for the creation of a favourable business environment for the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia and the business of economic operators on the territory of the same, and it is certainly something that the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians supports and identifies as the interest of all the citizens we represent here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has listed the improvement of positive practices as one of its top priorities in all ten areas accompanied by the Duing Business List, developed by the World Bank. It is based on an assessment of the procedures, prices and time needed to execute them, and concerns the business of the private sector. The Duing Business Methodology observes domestic, small and medium-sized companies and carries out the measurement of the ease of business through the review of regulations and their application in practice. The World Bank monitors business conditions in as many as 190 economies, through ten areas, and one of them is the protection of minority shareholders. The indicators to be followed are: the index of protection of minority shareholders, the index of conflict of interest management and the index of ownership management. In order to achieve the target values of those indices, it was necessary, among other things, to amend and supplement the Company Act, to assess the provisions of the laws relating to the conclusion of transactions and actions in which there is a personal interest. Introducing a company obligation to make available information to the shareholder on the amount and structure of the compensation and stimulation of the Director, i.e. the Executive Director and the member of the Supervisory Board, as well as on the authority responsible for making decisions on the issue of actions up to the amount of the approved capital. On the harmonisation of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Society with the EU Directive, i.e. the European Parliament and the Council, we could hear earlier today from our esteemed colleague, the chair of the Committee on European Integration and Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Elvira Kovac, on the basis of an analysis of the current Business Society Act, has the basis to conclude that the following problems could arise in its application. With regard to the conclusion of transactions and actions in which there is a personal interest, as regards the transparency of the remuneration of directors and members of the Supervisory Board, particularly in public action societies, as regards the identification of shareholders and information of shareholders and companies. Changes are necessary since the law regulates the general legal framework for the positions of companies, as well as the legal position of entrepreneurs, other opportunities to improve the provisions of the law and their compliance with other regulations do not exist. More specifically, the only amendments and additions to the laws were possible to provide for provisions which would contribute to improving the rank of the Republic of Serbia in the World Bank's list of operating conditions of the Duing Business and thus improving the provisions relating to the protection of minority shareholders' rights, as well as those that comply with the provisions of the EU Directive. Accordingly, the adoption of amendments and additions to the law in order to achieve the intended objectives is the only way to address the problem. At the World Bank ranking, on the conditions of doing business for 2020, the Republic of Serbia made progress in the field of protection of minority shareholders for as many as 76 seats, i.e. compared to the year 2019 when it was 86th, it was ranked 37th in 2020. The proposed solutions in the law will have a positive impact on transparency in the conclusion of transactions, i.e. on the taking of legal actions in which there is a personal interest of persons with special responsibilities towards society, on raising the level of awareness of directors, members of the Supervisory Board, on the compliance of legal provisions in the conclusion of legal work, i.e. on the taking of a legal action in which there is a personal interest, as well as on the transparency of data on the level and structure of compensation and the promotion of management of the action society. The source of the verification will be the World Bank's report on the conditions of business Duing for 2020, i.e. for 2021. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians welcomes all efforts that lead to the simplification of bureaucracy on all grounds and any directive that has been adopted in order to engage shareholders in the long term and improve transparency between companies and investors. If these and similar efforts were not to be made, and not to be constantly working on improving and harmonising the laws and regulations, neither we of the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians would be able to praise the projects, such as the largest investment competition project, the Prosperati Foundation project that lived six years ago as a mega project of the Government of Hungary, which would certainly not have been able to live without the understanding and acceptance of the authorities in Serbia who understood their importance and did not put any obstacles to the realization of the same. I had the opportunity to see for myself, and I am proud to confirm that the functioning and implementation of the Prosperati Foundation programme in Serbia can serve as an example of best practice for all countries in the environment in which the Hungarian national minority lives, which are usually mostly made up of EU member states. For six years, more than 14,000 projects supported the programme's work, an investment of around 350m euros was realised using around 170m euros in budget support. The users of the program are almost 6,000 family companies, agricultural holdings, more than 2,000 micro and small enterprises, 1,100 young couples and single parents, a project to buy a rural house and garden, and almost 750 new, i.e. start-up companies. Of the 45 Vojvodina local self-governments, these projects have been implemented in as many as 39 local self-governments, i.e. in about 180 settlements, so wherever there are members of the Hungarian national minority. Supporting each individual agricultural land is supporting the existence of at least one family. So, 6,000 landlords, it means 15,000 to 20,000 people. Companies in the program employ 12,500 people. Up to now, around 1,600 new jobs have been opened, and current projects will create 200 additional jobs. Up to now, about 250 medium and large investments have been realised. In addition to direct users of the program, it also benefits a large circle of suppliers, as well as their employees. What is most important and what was, in fact, the strategic goal of the programme from the above facts is that according to the survey, the Prosperati Foundation around 90% of all its users, families and employees imagine their future in Vojvodina, that is, in the Republic of Serbia. To conclude, MPs of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Society, as well as other proposals on the agenda of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10450	Thank you. I give the word to the esteemed president of the PUPS Parliament Club – "Tri P", Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10451	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Krkobiq, the distinguished minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of today's session in a united debate are two draft laws and two decisions that are important to our citizens. These are, above all, the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Business Companies, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, as well as two decisions, the Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of Two Members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and the Proposal for a Decision on the Selection of a President and a Member of the Commission on Securities. At the very beginning, I would point out that the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia, PUPS -- the "Tri P" in the voting day will support these laws and other proposals from this session and vote for it. In some earlier times, nearly half a century ago, when the Federal Assembly of the SFRY was adopted in this room, it was said that it was a working constitution and the foundation of self-government. Although this law has long since been in force and our employment, unfortunately it does not enjoy the social and economic status that it had at that time, when it comes to the Law on Economic Society, it must be borne in mind that this law is indeed a kind of constitution which lays the basis for regulation of legal relations when it comes to the establishment of an internal organisation and the relations of bodies of economic operators, entrepreneurs, partners, commanders, shareholders and companies with limited responsibility, and which they further complement their internal acts and decisions. This year, the full decade of application of this law ends, and the fact is that it has been changed best in terms of all the complexity of this matter in practice and the need to, based on observed weaknesses, only a legal solution is constantly being corrected in order to enable the more efficient work of economic operators and, on the other hand, prevent the possibility of possible abuse. In this respect, in the first part of the law relating to general provisions applicable to all entrepreneurs and companies, several additions have been made. One quality way was clarified which data are required in the registration process, what is considered to be the headquarters of a company and more importantly, the precise procedure was clarified when an action was brought for the establishment of the real headquarters of a company. The proceedings before the court were defined as urgent, and d is not subject to a judicial verdict of the basis for the liquidation of the company. It is good that the procedure for such situations has finally been regulated because in practice we have had cases of fictitious registrations of companies at various addresses where there was no one to receive mail and court letters, so judicial and bankruptcy proceedings have been significantly slowed down due to such unconscious treatment as is contrary to principles and the Law on Economic Society and the Law on Liaison. The new provisions on the electronic address and the electronic document are now in line with the provisions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Business which we have already adopted some time ago, thus internal harmonisation of the legal system is being carried out in a very important segment. The members 65 to 68 have carried out significant redefinitions related to the duties of preventing the impact of personal interest on the business of a company. All these members have now significantly more precisely regulated this sensitive area when it happens that the same person can have different personal, private interests compared to the interests of the company itself in which the member is in the managing authority. In particular, the addition of new legal members provides for the obligation of society to provide, through its internet presentations in the future, available reports by its authorities on such situations and to make decisions about them. These are, I think, quite justified solutions, because it is precisely a potential opportunity for all members of a business society and the general public to find out about these kinds of jobs quickly, the best defense for their prevention in practice. Amendments relating to entrepreneurs provide for the possibility that, in the case of a measure of ban on the exercise of activity or judgment, the actual address of the exercise of activity is established, and the entrepreneur does not report that decision to the Agency for Commercial Registers, by force of the law, will be determined by the termination of the exercise of activity. This measure should contribute to the greater legal certainty of business participants and the creation of a clearer picture of who is really serious about entrepreneurship. In the section relating to specific forms of companies, the most attention is given to action companies, which is understandable, given their importance in the economic life of the state. The obligation introduced to identify significantly more precisely persons in a company that is receiving so-called shares. own actions of society itself, with the restriction that such actions can be up to 5% in each class during the financial year. It should also contribute to greater transparency in the work of companies and further reduce the possibility of sub-capitalisation, i.e. that the company will, in fact, only in time, eat its own capital invested. A series of amendments provide for the company's obligation to bring forward a strategic document in the future – a fee policy for directors and members of the Supervisory Board, where criteria and criteria will have to be specified by which the level of compensation to be paid for the work of these bodies will be calculated. Finally, several additions are related to the harmonisation of this law with the Law on the Central Register of Real Owners and the Prevention of Money Laundering, and they create the possibility of real owners, shareholders, to be discovered in companies, and to be further applied to the provisions of the laws mentioned, if there is a need for this, and we hope that such cases will be as little less than possible by this regulation of this law. At the end of the law, certain amendments are scheduled to take effect somewhat later than the day of the law's declaration, due to the need for economic operators to adapt further to them. In addition to this law, today's agenda also includes an amendment to the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, as well as two decisions. The Agreement with Norway on Agricultural Products concerns only a minor change as a result of the regulation of the mutual legal category of the Agreement, which has been signed with Norway on its own and with the European Free Trade Area, which is a member of Norway. As regards the election of two new members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, it is a matter of candidates with good biographies, who already have years of experience in the work within the Public Procurement Administration, and can reasonably be expected that the new, very responsible duty required by more dedicated work will deliver good results. What is important here is that it should always try to fill in the legal procedure in time for such human beings, so that there is no delay in the work of these organs and the accumulation of pending cases. Similarly, the second decision for a proposal to elect a president and four members of the Securities Commission, where the president is re-elected in the same post and in the new mandate, and all proposed candidates have already been employed in this regulatory body. What is important and should be stressed, too, is that these human questions should always be addressed in time, to fill those places in time, so that there is no delay in work. It can be concluded that this is fully respected in these two cases, as the re-election will take place before the formal date of the term of office of the elected members of the previous convocations. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS-Tri P parliamentary group, believes that the amendments to the Business Society Act will create an even higher level of legal certainty for all, which will in particular affect better results in our country's overall business. We also generally believe that these legal proposals are good, that their economic life in our country will be further regulated, i.e. to establish important co-operation with European countries. Therefore, the PUPS-Tri P parliamentary group will give its support in the voting day for the adoption of these draft laws and decisions. Also, the PUPS-Tri P parliamentary group will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day and vote in favour. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, respected minister with associates, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10452	The word has a representative of the SPS parliamentary club, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10453	Thank you. The respected minister with fellow Members, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is now on the agenda of two legislative proposals and two proposals for decisions relating to staff issues. As the first point of our debate today, we have amendments and additions to the Business Society Act, then, the Agreement with the Kingdom of Norway on Agricultural Products, the Proposal for a decision to elect two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, as well as a proposal for a decision to elect a President and a member of the Securities Commission. As an authorised representative of the SPS Parliament Club, I will look back at all four points to bring the citizens closer to what we're going to talk about here today at the tide. If we start from the very definition, the economy represents the fundamental social activity of a society. Thus, companies and entrepreneurs who are operators of economic development are a very important part of the economy. In the modern society in which we live, it is important to have a vision, and a common vision of all of us here is for Serbia to be the best country for all of its citizens. With this in mind, it is important to connect these entities, as well as to improve their position, for which we need a good legislative framework that already exists in our country. There are a number of facts that contribute to this finding of mine. The economy in Serbia, despite the pandemic last year and this year, achieved a positive result. The biggest profit has been recorded in large and small trade sectors, construction, agriculture and energy, while the biggest burden of the pandemics themselves has been borne by hotelers and hosts. In the first year of the pandemic, companies increased the number of employees by about 43,500, and this trend continued this year, especially in the sectors of trade and construction. A year of this government has recently been completed, which has been an opportunity to sum up all the results of what has been done in this period and done. Through financial support programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises during that period, the Ministry of Economy provided investments of 11 billion dinars and implemented 76 projects in 56 local self-government. A strategy of state ownership and management of economic operators owned by the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2021 to 2027 was adopted, as well as an Action Plan for the implementation of the Industrial Policy Strategy of the Republic of Serbia from 2021 to 2030. For the first seven months of this year, nearly 5,500 companies were founded in Serbia, which is 3.2% more than in the same period last year. Also, there is already a more favourable business environment in Serbia. What is the objective of amending and supplementing the Business Society Act is to contribute to greater legal certainty, to increase transparency in the conclusion of jobs, to raise the level of awareness of directors and members of the Supervisory Board in the conclusion of legal work, and to guarantee transparency of data on the level and structure of the management of the company's management. In order to increase corporate transparency, the responsibility of the Director is particularly important to publish each element and the total amount of compensation. This law will also affect competition's conditions in such a way that companies that have a more transparent remuneration policy, as well as those which determine the identity of their shareholders, will be safer to invest foreign investors and will be recognised as more reliable business partners. This will stimulate economic activity and increase competition. Also, conditions will be created for a more favourable level of investment activity and better business for business operators. All of this should contribute to further development of our domestic economy, improving the rule of law, and creating a favourable business environment for business operators operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed amendments to this law are necessary, among other things, in order to improve our position on the Duing Business List of the World Bank on terms of business. Also today, we have an agreement on agricultural products with the Kingdom of Norway. Our significant diplomatic relations have existed for over 100 years. We and Norway have more than 20 confirmed bilateral agreements from different areas. Despite Norway's confession to the so-called Kosovo's state and what voted for Kosovo's entry into UNESCO, there is good, above all, economic co-operation, both at the bilateral and multilateral level, primarily under the 2010 Free Trade Agreement, which was concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the European Free Trade Association, known as the EFTA. This Agreement provides for the total elimination of customs duties on industrial products and thus opens the market for the three European countries for our products. Serbia also has individual agreements on agricultural products with the EFTA Member States, which will be discussed much more in detail by my colleague, MP Diana Radovic. What I want to point out is Telenor's investment of 1.5 billion euros, which is one of the largest individual investments in Serbia, but also the largest Norwegian investment in our country. Norway is interested in further intensifying economic co-operation with Serbia, connecting the business people of the two countries, and in co-operation in the areas of innovative technologies and sustainable development. Also, I would like to stress that there is room to improve and co-operate in the field of culture, especially given that more than 10,000 of our countrymen live in Norway. On the hook, but not least, Norway has proved to be an honest friend of Serbia and its citizens. I would remind or inform those who do not know that at the very beginning of the outbreak of the pandemic, Norway sent financial aid to the state of Serbia of fivem euros, which I would like to thank both on behalf of the SPS parliamentary club and on behalf of the SPS. Today, we are also considering two proposals for decisions on human resources. It is the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and the Securities Commission. It is important to begin by saying that the new Public Procurement Act came into force on 1 January 2020, starting on 1 July. This is a very important law, we can say, and a system that regulates the rules of public procurement procedures carried out by all state authorities in order to obtain for themselves a certain good, service or provide certain works. Since this is about taxpayers' money, the provisions of this law and the way money is spent directly concern all citizens, respecting this principle of economics, efficiency, equality of economic operators, prohibitions of discrimination and transparency. The Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures is in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement a separate and independent body of the Republic of Serbia that provides for the protection of rights under this law. He has legal status and fits the National Assembly’s annual report for his work. Also, the president and members of the Commission choose and resolve the National Assembly themselves, so today we have the biographies of candidates. Each of them has long-term work experience in public procurement activities, exceptional professional and professional qualifications and owning a certificate itself. At the very end, a few sentences and the last item we have today on the agenda. When we talk about the capital market, we can't help but realize that because of the pandemic, it's really in one big crisis whose consequences will take time to look into it. Accordingly, I would point out the importance of the Capital Market Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2021 to 2026 which is the first such document that our government has brought with the aim of supporting sustainable economic growth and increasing national competitiveness through a good, functional capital market. Developed and efficient markets play a key role in financing economic growth and ensuring financial stability. The Securities Commission is an independent and independent state organisation, a capital market regulator founded since 1990. Its basic task is the legal, fair and transparent functioning of the capital market, the protection of investors. To carry out tasks under its jurisdiction, it also corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As part of its election function, the National Assembly shall elect and resolve the President and members of the Securities Commission. Today we have the biographies of candidates for president and four members. These biographies truly give confidence that a merger of continuity in the form of the president and two re-election members, as well as two new candidates proposed at such challenging times for the capital market, will deliver the best results. This is what I'm saying, given their experience and the jobs they've been doing so far. I am particularly pleased to have recognized the quality of the proposal from the SPS parliamentary group. It is about Irena Radulovic, who has graduated from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Economics, who has had a 10-year working experience in the banking sector, and has been working in the Committee on Papers of Values in various jobs since 2012. We believe that with its knowledge, experience and moral values, it will best contribute to the work and functioning of the Commission itself, as well as all proposed candidates. The SPS parliamentary group will support all points from today's session in voting day. What I would take advantage of at the very end and at the end of my presentation, given that there will be no such opportunity tomorrow, I would like to congratulate all citizens of the Republic of Serbia on November 11th – Peace Day, that is, on our day of victory in World War I. On November 11, 1918, at 11.00 p.m., the central forces signed a capitulation that officially interrupted the brutal, until then known, Great War. The 11th of November binds us all and reminds us of the sacrifice and the heroism of our ancestors, thanks to which we today can enjoy freedom and thanks to which we today have sovereignty. Thank them and thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10454	I thank the representative of the SPS Parliament Club. I give the word to the honourable MP, representative of the legislator club Aleksandar Vukić – For our children, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10455	Thank you, Vice President Krkobic. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a respected minister, it feels good to be a member of the SNS when it comes to economics, when it comes to legislation that needs to improve the economic environment, which should improve everything that the Republic of Serbia has done, thanks to the efforts made by our President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the past few years. In this domain, when it comes to liberalising our market, when it comes to improving the environment, of course we will work hard and committed here in parliament to make these conditions as good as possible, so that all those institutions that have an impact on the business environment are as good as possible, more efficient and suitable for economic development and for those people who are full of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, who pay taxes in our country, which are businessmen. What has been happening since the beginning of the SNS's ideas since 2014, when Aleksandar Vucic became prime minister, is to create a living market on which, of course, with equal chances, both domestic and foreign companies will be able to compete, the market as we have today, a market that dictates that pace of economic development for Serbia to be the first country in Europe for cumulative growth of 7.5% in 2020 and 2021. The market that today implies such an ambience that anyone who wants to work, anyone who wants a job can get a job in the private sector, but can also think about working in the state sector and the state administration, by changing absolutely that, let's say, way of thinking or these "minimous set" and applying and adapting the state administration to the needs of citizens and the needs of the economy. Today this is a state that knows how to manage state resources, how to manage budgets in the best possible way, how to have an increasing number and amount of capital investments, investment in solid and soft infrastructure, investment in health care, investment in highways, in railways and of course, the state administration, and that is our goal, should be maximumly efficient and committed to businesses. So, to be the best possible service to businesses and citizens. And that's the key thing about economics, when it comes to the ambience that we managed to do and change. You had one situation that simply this way of thinking was such that it was the easiest thing to do in this previous period to deepen the economy, that if the country's poor economic situation is to blame the businessmen for it. Today is a very different situation. Today we have and it is a very important day that our Chamber of Commerce of Serbia opens its representation in Jerusalem, in line with, of course, what we signed in Washington, in line with the Washington Agreement, which will, of course, give another additional impulse to develop our economy, especially in terms of tourism, the development of new, or information technologies and military co-operation with Israel, which will be one of the strategic importance for our country. This is what we are doing in parliament today on the promotion of legislation, we are doing in this direction to meet President Aleksandar Vukic's 2025 plan. This clearly says that Serbia has a clear plan for its own development, a clear plan for the development of the economy, a balanced regional development, the development of infrastructure that will lead to unemployment in Serbia being even smaller, that it has much, much more opportunities especially for young highly qualified and highly educated people, to get jobs, to start their own businesses, to start their own private and business initiatives so that they can stay here, to live, to create their families, and thus to meet the part about the strategy of demographic development and the preservation of our nation, our countries in terms of strengthening our population and that of President Alexander Vukic, who at the beginning of his mandate, has given himself the goal of having us more and that this policy of incentives and population, and demographic policies be stronger, stronger and stronger and better. It cannot be realized if you do not have a strong economy, if you do not have a tough economy that has proved to be tough during this period since 2020 and 2021, a pandemic period when many more developed countries have had very large declines in their economy and economic activity by yesterday. Some countries, for example, like Austria, have come to see that the unemployment rate is 20 per cent, in all this time Serbia, thanks to clear, concise and good measures, when it comes to the economy, subsidies and incentives given to the private sector in particular, has succeeded in what may have succeeded and went after only a few countries around the world, which is to keep all its sectors of industry and to do what was crucial for our country's future in 2020, and that is that no single investor, any single investor interested in investing here in Serbia, has given up investment in Serbia. No one has given up, and now we have this situation that we literally have the opening and laying of a cornerstone for new factories in ten days, across Serbia from Belgrade, Pancheva, Vranja, north of Subotica, Novi Sad. So in all parts of the Republic of Serbia, we have new factories, new plants, new equipment, new machines, new jobs, new investors, and we are counting not only on building our own foreign investment economy, it is very good that we are also champions of attracting foreign and direct investment this year, but what is an even greater result of this government and this country and our president is that we have a more tough sector, especially the small, micro and medium-sized enterprises that are domestic. For the first time, I think, in the last 30 years, you've had a situation where more businesses open up over a year than they close down. The trend was catastrophic, since the business environment was not good, since tax policy, monetary policy was not good, were not predictable. Today, thanks to this one strategic approach, we have such a situation that it is easy to open business here in Serbia anywhere, not only in Belgrade, it can be done very quickly, effectively and you can plan your job, not for the next six months, a year, but you can plan it in five, ten years, since Serbia is a stable country that takes care of its economy, but of course also political stability, which is of course important for businessmen and investors. This also shows that Serbia means as much as 61% of all investments in the Western Balkans region. Can you imagine the result? You can imagine that rating, that reputation of the Republic of Serbia, when 61% of all investments in all Western Balkan countries blend into the Republic of Serbia. Today Serbia is a traffic hub, today it is Serbia's hab when it comes to production, when it comes to tourism, when it comes to air traffic, when it comes to information technologies. It's great news from the other day, she met the public with this Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, that in this year we will achieve more than two million euros in revenue from the IT sector, and this places Serbia's order of states that are in one unconstitutional way, dynamically modernised and that have found their way through innovative technologies, through innovation, through people who live and work here, can create additional value and can be a competitor not only here in the region, but also in developed countries and in Europe and the whole world. Could anyone until just a few years ago have imagined that Serbia would be a champion in software, in games, in many aspects when it comes to information technologies, in the process of digitisation? They laughed at us here in this House, they laughed and made fun of it, and they told us what we needed to digitise, and in some parts of Serbia there are no sewers. There is no thanks to them, no thanks to the fact that they did nothing, that they were not interested in whether any Borca or Krgnac, who were in Belgrade, in the Palilula municipality, had a sewer or not, because they lived and lived today in a circle of two. Because they don't care. Because they're fine. They live in Vračar, they lived in Dedinj, they lived by their villas and residences in Senjak, and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for ordinary people, the ordinary world did not care. Then they found us to criticise because we are implementing and introducing the digitalisation process that saved us in this pandemic, where we showed that the vaccination process might be doing the best in the world, that we are the state that is most organized, that we have a very good crisis management thanks to the President of the Republic, thanks to his vision of Serbia, not for five years. We are talking today about Serbia, what it should look like in 20 years. We're building a subway today, we're starting to build a subway today, we're building and we're finishing "Belgrade on the Water" and we're putting this town down on the river. That's what Serbian citizens see, that's what Serbian citizens recognize, which is why Vukic today has almost the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from, I don't even know what, 65 to 70%. Of course, many are on the domestic scene, but many who work for certain foreign centres of power that are not in the interest of strong and modern Serbia, many of them are not, look only from the acquisition of statehood, since the Berlin Congress in 1878, have never been in the interest of, in particular, great powers, strong Serbia, especially Serbia that will have access to the warm sea, which will have the opportunity to use all possible resources that were within reach at that time. Well, they're not doing well with this kind of Serbia today, so they kind of want to jeopardize our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and especially Serbia that is economically strong, because they're used to using this country and they're used to achieving their own interests, interests of their own countries on their backs and on the coat of arms of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Since 2014, all this has changed, and today we have leadership and today we have such a leader who exclusively takes care of the interests of this country, the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of Serbian interests. So these are the priority interests for this country, for this parliament, for our party, for the party president and for all those who want to participate in the process of modernising Serbia and creating a quality environment for all issues aimed at what other than prosperity and better life and a better standard of our citizens. I cannot not mention the fact that the pressures on Serbia have increased over the past few months. If we had a new approach today when it comes to these pressures, one much stronger, one stronger, more co-ordination on pressure on our country and our president, great dust has risen over this letter of seven American congressmen to the President of the United States. This letter mentions our state-owned company, which is our treasure, which is our resource, and which we will of course manage in the next period as one responsible government, as people who care about the resources of our country, although many have accused us of selling EPS, that we will sell Telecom, that we will sell out all the resources of this country, and eventually they have accused Vukino and bid on the dates when he will surrender, when he will sign the recognition so-called. Kosovo by the Republic of Serbia. None of that happened. Now they see that it's a terrible and brutal propaganda. And today, look, seven American congressmen, you see, by chance, those from New York, Illinois, California, mention "Telecom", mention the TV "Pink" and call on the President of the United States to impose supposed sanctions on our country's president, probably concerned about the future of Telecom, for the future of Telecom shareholders who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the future and democracy of the media scene in the Republic of Serbia. You don't need to be very politically experienced, you don't need to be overeducated, you don't need to be smart enough to see where the wind blows from, and to see that it's actually written in the coordination of some people here in Belgrade, tycoon-political and so on. The elite and representatives of the interim institutions in Pristina who have one single goal that they do not hide, which is to take over the north of Kosovo and Metohija and ban all Serbs, to live in a monoethnic country that they imagine only Albanians will live in. Then, of course, they will work together, because they don't care about Belgrade's "Telecom" and its growth, they don't care about Solak and Gilas and Telecom, and for the private media here in the Republic of Serbia, they are able to co-operate with everyone, so let them be in Vjos Osmani, Albin Kurti and Spend Ahmeti, and ultimately anyone who can help bring down the reputation of Alexander Vukic, to bring down the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, and that they are through, as they keep saying and do not hide, the Ukrainian scenario, come to power in the Republic of Serbia, riding again on the coat of arms of this people and start to get rich again and to fill their pockets, not to take into account absolutely any national interest, nor the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For the first time, you have this co-ordination of a tycoon-political elite here in Belgrade, temporary institutions in Pristina, Albanian lobbyists in the United States, Bosniak lobbyists in the United States, Montenegrin lobbyists in the United States. I'm not saying this by accident. The protest they organised in New York in front of the US mission of the Republic of Serbia, so in the UN, they organised an Albanian lobby in America, a Bosniak lobby in America, a Montenegrin lobby in America. So, all joined together to say that Serbia has a malignant influence in this region. Wait, guys, let's see who's normal here. Serbia and Aleksandar Vucic, who is the driver of the initiative -- an open Balkans, who has no hand and, of course, who speaks publicly, openly talks about Serbia being in the interest of a stable region, that Serbia is in the interest of a stable BiH, but of course there is no problem in saying that we love both the Republic of Serbia and that we will protect the interests of the Serbian people wherever it lives. I think now is the right time to call and work on having as much consensus as possible in our society, the greater consensus and political parties, and we have shown it through these negotiations and talks and dialogues that we have had with the opposition parties, in particular I apostrophe those parties who did not want the presence of foreigners within this dialogue, I have great respect for them, because I think they have shown much more respect for their country than those who have called on European parliamentarians here, so when they came the Europeanparliamentaries and, of course, they couldn't say otherwise than what the real situation is, and what research is on the market, they will see, after all, what the mood of the people in the Republic of Serbia is, and they have told them that they have a single problem, which is their rating and support that they do not have by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they have made it clear to them that neither as European Parliaments can bring them into power, that only the citizens and the Republic. That's the essence of this whole story, because what that very fact has called on foreigners to participate in this dialogue is in favour of those people who, like this Dragan Gilas two years ago, went to America. This is not the first time and it is not controversial to go anywhere and it is not disputed to be an opposition, but Alexander Vukic, when he was an opposition, appeared normally to our diplomatic representations, respected this country. He who can seek mediation, the arrival of foreigners to solve any internal problem in his own country, neither knows what the state is, nor respects his country, nor knows what patriotism is. That's why they managed for 12 years to destroy everything that's been built in this country since 1878, until they came to power. Breaking our economy, breaking our chances of having a better geopolitical position, positioning ourselves better. They broke up our social policy. They've destroyed this Belgrade for us. Equal regional development, none of it. None of their fancy stories they told, of the promises they made here in the Assembly and everywhere while they ruled all over Serbia. None of it's been accomplished. Now they take it accordingly to go and spit on their country and president of their country, thinking that they'll bring them here to power. No, it comes to power only through elections. Here it comes to power by voting for you citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and as far as we can see a vast majority of votes, and we do not want to gamble in any way, there is a Serbian Progressive Party, there is President Aleksandar Vukic, because we love Serbia, because we are building Serbia and we will continue with this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10456	I thank Dr Marinkovic for his presentation. This ends with authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Before we move on to the list, the word has been proposed, distinguished Minister Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10457	Thank you. Short feedback on the presentation of all of you who have addressed the citizens of Serbia and the comments on both draft laws, therefore, the draft law confirming the amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies. The first impression is that, in principle, both texts are completely uncontested, unconflict, that of course there are certain details that can be specified, further discussed, but that we understood that the government had responded well and followed the action plan and European integration of Serbia when it comes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Economic Society, but also to the timely confirmation of the amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway. I will spend a few minutes of your time just to remind myself that the aim of this agreement is to bring about a decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and Serbia No. 1 of 2021 amending and supplementing Protocol B, with the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia on the definition of the concept of products originating in and methods of administrative co-operation confirmed by the National Assembly in July of this year, in order to ensure that this Agreement calls for an updated Protocol B with the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA State. Namely, the agreement was concluded in Geneva on 17 December 2009. It entered into force on 1 October 2010, and an integral part of the Agreement is Protocol B on the definition of the concept of products of origin and methods of administrative co-operation, which has been amended in the meantime, so that your votes, and on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will be agreed. So with each EFTA country, which is Switzerland, together with Liechtenstein, Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Serbia has concluded a bilateral agricultural product agreement, which forms part of an instrument for establishing a free trade zone between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States. The amendment of the Agreement with the Kingdom of Norway is scheduled to take effect on the same day as the decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and Serbia, in order to ensure that this Agreement calls for an updated Protocol B with the Free Trade Agreement. The decision you will allow your votes to speak not only about the routine update of the agreement, but also about having a rational approach to both the affairs of your European integration and the co-operation with countries that are not members of the European Union, but by the standards of business, by the rule of law, respect for human rights, the value systems that are nurtured in the Kingdom of Norway, Iceland and Switzerland do not differ from those of the European Union and Serbia. Part of this is also your comments on the amendment and addition of the Business Society Act, as two of the several changes offered were somewhat mentioned. One is to improve the protection of the rights of minority members of society, and another to comply with the provisions of the European Union Directive of 2017 828 and earlier in 2007, with everything else that we did not question during this debate, so, including mandatory membership in the electronic administration, including anything relating to registration, liquidation and clarifications from the legal frameworks placed by companies, companies, d.o.o. entrepreneurs in the legal framework. Why is it obvious that we are most interested in protecting minority members of society and fully harmonising with EU directives, regardless of what will take effect once Serbia becomes an EU member? Because we have an undivided awareness of what is strategic, what is tactical and what is a defined and irrevocable direction of development of the economic environment in Serbia and how important it is to inform citizens clearly, unequivocally, in good time and accurately. Why is it even more important for us to have the awareness that the changes ahead of us, which, with your will, will take effect, with the changes you are going to propose, will welcome new changes and additions in some period ahead of us? Because one of these laws, such as the Business Society Act, is the key to regulating the business of development, bringing about a society, shows us and offers us a chance to talk about how fast changes are happening to us. To us, our generation, which is now alive, in just a hundred years, if you look at it, it's three generations, everything has changed so profoundly that you can't recognize the planet. That didn't happen in a hundred years 19th or 18th or 17th century. If we have no awareness today that both these documents and the strategic orientation of societies produce consequences, not in a hundred years, but in seven or ten, because that is the course of civilization of the time we live in, then we will miss the chance of really developing our society. I'm going to give you just one example, which doesn't seem to be related to these amendments and additions to the laws that are before you, which is the future production of medical means, vaccines and other medical means as one of the most likely key branches of the economy, and this law will apply to that too. 25 years ago, hardly anyone could have predicted that half the workforce would be on the Internet and that the jobs that are software business would be taking over the primate slowly. To understand how important it is to keep pace, then we need to know the importance of what we are harmonising with the EU, with the directives. Because they started keeping up with the future before us. Because they invented their future before us. Because our friends and partners are inevitable in future EU membership. It is equally important that we do not let out the necessary criticism of the application of existing rules and that we do not let out what we can through this criticism of this company law to suggest that we make better. This can only be done if the MPs obey those to whom the law applies directly and if we, from the executive authority, listen to the MPs. When such a conversation is built, when we listen and hear and understand one another, then we will prove in the 21st century that the exact old people's proverb - the bad administration, the necessary need, good administration, good time for both people and the country. Thank you for your comments so far and for your previous remarks, criticisms and suggestions, the comments you have had on this law. We will listen carefully in the afternoon, with the hope that our joint work will end so that we will have a clear and ex-post analysis of the previous law and a well-evaluated ex-ante analysis of the needs of the provisions ahead of you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10458	I thank the honourable minister for further clarifications and explanations. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first is the representative of the party of justice and reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party, MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10459	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, citizens of Serbia, fellow MPs, I will, as I have said so far, say those things concerning all those citizens living in areas where life conditions are a little more difficult, in the southeast and other parts of Serbia. By the way, I was elected here in the Assembly from the list "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children" and I represent the United Peasants' Party. I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Dear colleagues, dear minister, the proposals of these laws regarding business societies are another good thing that will be positive for all our economic operators, which will allow for some things to be made easier in the coming period, that some things are seen, which so far could not be seen. The most important thing of all of this is that in these difficult times, when he is a bastard, to find a possibility and to put an accent on all those business entities that live and work in areas where the fourth group of underdevelopment, in municipalities that are devastated, where we have to give much more attention and give the opportunity to keep existing jobs and to speed up production and to get some more of the investors. Otherwise, a few days ago, I was with the Director of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Sladjana Backovic, who, within his jurisdiction, is doing his maximum job for the benefit of every economic operator, anywhere to work, whether in Svrlig, Nis, Subotica, Novi Pazar. Each economic operator shall be provided with the possibility of obtaining certain favourable funds, loans, which will speed up and save production tomorrow, as well as the possibility to preserve jobs. From this place, I'd like to thank the esteemed director once more with my associates. The Development Fund's headquarters is located in Nis, not in Belgrade, and that's a good thing. Because not everything that is important in Serbia to be in Belgrade can be something in both Nis and our other regions. One of the important things is the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Industry, which is the proposer of this law. A respected ministry-leading minister has shown that she has the knowledge and experience that those things that have been done are all positive things and I expect that we will have the possibility that during the coming period, during this next 2022, those things that have been done will be allocated to the funds and allow for new jobs to be opened. What I'm saying concerns areas where life conditions are much more difficult, for the areas of the fourth and fifth groups, and these are devastated areas, where we really have a great need to preserve every job, bring in another investor who would do something there and that in this way these municipalities from which a large number of people go away, young people, to provide these people with jobs, to stay there to create their families. We put a special accent in rural areas, where the situation is even more difficult. In these areas, if a business entity opens up, whether it's a cooperative or something, it's really going to give people a chance to stay there, to function, to work, to create families and to be able to live there from their work. As we heard a little earlier and a little earlier than my esteemed colleague, who was in front of SNS Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, he said a lot of positive things, a history of how we got to that situation, that's the period that's come since 2012 and he's said a lot of things that I support. I think it is the right thing to continue in the next period, together with our government, with our Serbian president, the intensity of the work, to continue to build roads, infrastructure, airports. One of the important airports for me as a man living in southeastern Serbia is the Nis airport of Constantin the Great, which has a high traffic frequency, where Serbia's headquarters is also in Nis. These are two state bodies based in Nis, which is a good move and a big deal for all of us who live there. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I will support all these bill proposals, because we think it's right and good. As far as Serbia and Norway's agreements on agriculture are concerned, it's the same quality and good thing to support it, because Norway is a country that has helped our farmers a lot and through local self-government, so it's a big deal for us. One of the more important things is transition, development and all the things that are negative to leave behind, to look forward, because only when we look forward, can we work for our children and children of our children. Once again, I'll vote for the bill 'cause I think they're right and they're good for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10460	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10461	The free trade agreement between Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway makes sense that using the free trade regime, we export agricultural products to Norway, since it does not have strong agricultural production. One of the items that we exported in recent years, which has successfully found its market in Norway, is honey. In the Adriatic area, honey was in the past year, i.e. Farmers from the area earned, beekeepers, about 11m euros on the honey. When Rio Tinto begins production based on the low ore rent we have, one of the smallest in European countries and Europe, will pay about 74.6m euros annually to Serbia's state and to the Serbian citizens' budget. As some preliminary analyses show, it will earn about 600m euros annually. So, in order for this contract that we're supposed to vote here today to make sense, we need to have something to produce and what to export to Norway. At this point, Rio Tinto is campaigning through the media with a national frequency where he represents himself as an extremely socially responsible corporation, and we still don't know what technology process he's going to use to extract lithium from the jadarite ore. So far, two well-known technological processes include large quantities of sulphuric and even more aggressive acids and large amounts of waste water. They mention some third process we haven't had a chance to see yet, and there's still no study on the ecological risk associated with Rio Tinto, which should go to the Adriatic area to dig up ore and extract it, to get to lithium. So, we have a corporation that has a very ugly ID card about how it worked around the world, especially Papua New Guinea, especially Australia, from which it originated, since it's an Australian-British corporation, there it destroyed Aboriginal heritage. It has even something to do with the movements and organizations of World War II, which have left a terrible mark on mankind. So, one such corporation we allow to have an impact on our institutes, have an impact and influence, lobbying on our colleges, that in some strange way those who have to do tomorrow an analysis of what the impact of this corporation and its work on our environment will be, so these experts have grants funded by Rio Tinto. So the state is not cheap, the state has never been economically profitable, the state is expensive and serves to defend one community from predators such as international corporations, especially those who have a dominant foothold in Australia, the United States, Britain, France, many other Western countries. Because what we know is that globalisation is a single nature process, a process that needs to be supported, humanity is supposed to connect, but globalism is one totalitarian ideology that tries to turn the whole world into slaves of Western corporations and their profits. Well, you see, dear colleagues from the SNS, believe it or not, you were voted by voters to strengthen the state and protect their interests against such predators. Unfortunately, in relation to Rio Tinto, I still don't see that protection, until you have a license, it doesn't mean you'll support them either, but in the meantime you've slept through that Rio Tinto lobbying through Serbia and is ready to put us in a position where everything we've had since the agricultural production in the Adriatic region disappears, that 19 villages that are extremely alive and populated, that if one of those two technologically-processing Jadarites in the game of wastewater pollutes the entire drain of Drina, they'll put us in a situation where both Belgrade and perhaps most of Serbia are left without water and be hit by an ecocid. We also need to know what our strategic development of Serbia is in the 21st century. At this point, a Slovenian corporation is taking a large conglomerate of land in Banat and will be building organic food there. It seems that we remain only to trust them to oppose "Rio Tintu" because their organic food will not be competitive if they come here, but I hope that the SNS and its authorities will still have the strength to react to "Rio Tinto" before Slovenians and not allow them to mix in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10462	National MP Glisic, by directly mentioning the SNS, I must give the right to the replica of the authorised representative, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10463	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very interesting to hear such things from Mr. Gliss, whom I have great respect for. As I recall, Mr Glisic was once and shared the same opinion and political views with people and a man who, for example, took pictures in front of the "Teklas" factory in Vladic's Han and participated in campaigns based on the fact that Serbia did not need foreign and direct investors, that we do not need investments, without any proposal, without any idea who would invest in Serbia, how to invest in Serbia, and how we will do everything here to hire citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's just amazing that someone today can deal with politics in such a way, so in the 21st century. People, the most important thing for a country, and we are proud of it, the SNS prides itself on doing everything and doing everything we can to hire every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, which is doing everything we can to make it possible for anyone who finishes the trade, who finishes college, who finishes university to have the opportunity to get a job. We're the ones who introduced what we needed most. Remember, Mr. Glissic, by 2012, what kind of privatisation was done? That's what you need to say in this context of speculative privatisations, robbery privatisations. We've brought these to the world's best investors. Don't doubt it at all. Not only when it comes to Rio Tinto, that when every company wants to invest in Serbia, it must meet certain conditions and standards. And that's normal. What we want to do here is make the same conditions for both foreigners and domestic businessmen, and then there's no problem. Because we've created such an ambience because, Mr. Glissic, we have a 7.5% growth. That's why we have investors from America and Germany, German companies, over 70,000 people.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10464	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10465	Don't worry about us doing everything we can to make sure that all those who want to invest here in Serbia meet all the standards regarding social, working, of course and environmental standards that are important for the further life and progress of our citizens and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10466	Now Mr Marinkovic has led me to give the right to the replica, of course, to the MP Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10467	Mr. Marinkovic, I have no dispute with you and, as I have said many times, I have no time to praise what you do well, and I am prepared to say that some things the ruling coalition does well and some things of mathematics show that they are developing well. What you mentioned to the gentleman with whom you were once a political ally, there are more of them, I don't know who you meant exactly, but I always differed with them when we were no longer ideally in the same positions, and at the cost of not being an MP and at the cost of not being in the ruling coalition, as is the case today. What I would agree with that gentleman who criticized foreign investments is not what I or he or you will say, but what Mr. Jože Menciger, the man who literally made it possible for Slovenia to make a successful transition in one period, the man who allowed Slovenia to do at the moment when we sell our banks to foreign capital, which is 10 years later, of them, who went into transition, that they also sold their banks, which means that for 10 years they worked to strengthen their banking sector. This gentleman said that foreign investments alone cannot start a single economy, that they have never managed to start a single economy, that a foreign investor is only interested in his profits, and formerly the president of your party, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, also said in the campaign that foreign investments are used by our country and the economy as uterus that fertilise their profits and then leave when it no longer suits them. So we have to ask the question of foreign investment, and one thing about the issues that are tied up and what I just said is that the largest land conglomerate in Banat that will produce organic food in Serbia is held by Slovenian citizens. The question arises, how under your authority did it not happen to be one of our domestics, or perhaps a state investor who would do so? I'm not sure if you're treating domestic and foreign investors, and it's understandable why you're keeping foreign investors privileged, because you're not doing anything else, but what our political class has been doing for 20 years, because we're in a state of soft occupation and under the control of their lobbys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10468	Thank you. Vladimir Marinkovic, try to work on it and conclude this circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10469	Sure, I will. It's always a pleasure to have a debate with Mr. Vladan Glisic. So, when we talk about foreign investments, you also mentioned Tomislav Nikolic who was right at the time when he said it, because they were really until 2012, there was also a complete right and you were right, that Serbia was somehow a dominant, some kind of prelate and not a secret, we keep saying that some foreign ambassadors and certain centres of power from abroad even had the opportunity to determine who would be the minister, who would lead the economy, who would run the finances of this country. There was nothing else we could expect, and the result was, in 2012, that our economy was ahead of bankruptcy. Fortunately, in 2012, someone with a vision of Serbia and someone who managed to balance, both foreign and domestic investments and put them in exactly the same order. We, according to the economy and to the market, have the same attitude towards everyone towards economic development. Here all people are equal, both in social terms and in economic terms and in economic matters, and in all other freedoms. We want everyone to invest here. It's a great advantage of Serbia, because I don't know why you're afraid of so many foreign investors. We are absolutely interested that the investor, wherever he comes from, is it Slovenia, is it Emrati, is it South Korea, is it Japan, is it Germany, meeting all those standards concerning labour rights, social rights, investing in these companies, investing in their development, investing in new technologies. Look, Mr. Glisic, a factory opened by President Vukic in Pancheva a few weeks ago, 1,700 euros of net earnings will be in the factory. That means that we have now completely gone beyond that stage from those jobs and investors who have demanded that so-called. labour-intense labour. Now we need a highly qualified workforce. It says that the best investors come to Serbia and we now have the best from Germany, America, from the EU, from all the countries that come here. Don't doubt that's the case when it comes to agriculture and how we make sure we protect all our resources. That's the kind of policy we're going to be leading in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10470	The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. For the last two minutes, we've been closing a circle of replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10471	Thank you. Mr Marinkovic, it is very important for me, too, to turn the debate in the Assembly into debates. I know that many colleagues from the radical opposition and the pro-Western opposition will condemn me for not taking this opportunity to insult and attack you who disagree with me. Also, I think the opposition should make proposals, and that's why, when you say I'm afraid of foreign investors, I'm afraid. Large capital, corporations, usually don't have any patriotic feelings, but those who come from the political west, have one manners of predatory behavior, which show as in the case of the Geox, that when profits are no longer important to them, they leave a lot of problems for us that we've given them the opportunity to earn that profit. On the contrary, there are foreign investments, there are those countries that come and work here according to the famous wine-wine principle. Make sure they're okay, too. It's just because they're controlled by their countries and they don't allow them to disintegrate and rule over their countries. First of all, I think of China, Russia and many other countries that will come here and leave their capital for both our benefit and their benefit. However, the proposal is what your authority is neglecting, and it shows that it has ignored because it has abolished the diaspora ministry, brought it down to the level of the office, even often there has not been determined who is the director of the office, and the diaspora of ours is actually the only part of foreign investors who have an emotional relationship with this space, who, when it comes here, invests, has a desire to stay, perhaps even return. So, I think that in the time of sanctions, subsidies, the abolition of the free market, which is what Western countries are doing right now, we have the right to give privileged position to our domestic investors and the privileged position of people who come from our diaspora, who want to invest here. It's a proposal "The People's Networks" and my personal proposal, and you see if it suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10472	Mr. Marinkovic, you've been chairman too, you know it's my right to decide, but you're strictly two minutes away and we're closing the circle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10473	I want shorter, of course. Just one brief answer Mr. Glisic was talking about. So you are also aware that this government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia with open arms is receiving investments from all over the world. You were talking about Chinese, Russian investments. So we make no difference, between where investors come from, from which country, and that is one of the greatest results of Alexander Vukic which he managed to make from Serbia a country that is interesting to invest everyone in the world. We, through these good economic relations, have created a good and friendly environment for all those who come here, invest and are interested in investing, improve their geopolitical position. The same Alexander Vucic had strength in Washington and Brussels and had enough sovereignty and leadership to tell the Americans and our European partners, we want investment from the EU, and from America, but the Chinese are doing a good job in Bor, the Chinese are doing a good job in Želizara in Smederev, affecting our exports, employing five and a half thousand people, tens of small and medium-sized enterprises are involved in the work of Želizara in Smederevo. We have saved, Aleksandar Vucic saved Smederevo, and Želizar and RTB Bor, as he has in the past few years connected the whole of Serbia with infrastructure, and today Eastern Serbia is rising, modernising, not the navel of this country anymore, and we are no longer in a situation where people move and go to other places for job and better life. Today, Mr Glisic, Serbia is a good place to live and it is good when we talk about these ideological differences and about strategies that we need more when it comes to investment, but believe that this country has enough and strength and knowledge to bring the best here, because Serbia deserves the best thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, his politics and his patriotism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10474	We're definitely closing a circle of replicas and continuing with a list of speakers. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10475	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the honourable representatives of the competent institutions, I must briefly look back, I simply think it is uninvited for us in the assembly to listen to some catastrophic announcements. I have to connect, I heard it the other day in the Belgrade City Assembly. Namely, one of the criticisms in front of the building was that if Metro and its depot were built that Belgrade would run out of water. This is where we heard from MPs that if the lithium is excavated, Belgrade will also run out of water, which is of course amazing. Yesterday Mr. Gojko Palalic spoke great on this particular subject and I'll just remind you. Angela Merkel, when she said that Germany was interested in the excavation of lithium, in the production of batteries and in the production of electric cars, and that was also the case with President Vukic and said it was an unprecedented development opportunity for Serbia. I think Mr Gojko Palalic mentioned yesterday that it was some kind of annual 17 billion-euro investment craft and it's an unprecedented chance. That's why there's so much screaming against these big projects, because if they come true, and one by one is coming true, the opposition practically in the next election, 2022, 2026, whichever year you want, it's practically out of the question, but Serbia has a chance then. As far as this set of laws is concerned, we have four. We simply have to say that these four laws, therefore on companies, the Agreement with Norway, public procurement and the procurement commission, and the Securities Commission, mean these four laws are heritage and what remains behind President Vukic. That is why it is crucial for these four laws to determine what remains behind President Vukic, but also to determine what remains behind Gilas. Namely, the tycoon Dragan Gilas, who owns the party, which is very strange, but it is true, the SAA and the company "Multicom", in which all its officials normally work, so they are in a double-dependence position, the other day, yesterday, on social networks and media hung their picture with the next text – Vukic will go faster than he thinks, and when he goes after it, nothing will be called after him, because there will be nothing left behind. Otherwise, in this picture of Gilas behind him is a Serbian flag. In Washington, however, Gilas lobbyed again the other day for Kurti's and Albanian interests 100%, and then all of the Serbs in Kosovo called criminals and then it would have been more accurate if Gilas had put an Albanian flag on this painting, because he was their lobbyist and Kurti's partner here, both want to be partners. Now I stop to say that Gilas in Serbia is not called anything, I think it's incorrect. I stopped to say that there was nothing behind Gilas left, it's wrong again. There's a synonym in Gilas' vocabulary, and Gilas has become a synonym. When you say Gilas - for robbery and thieving, that's all that's left. But what else is behind it? The tycoon of Gilas left his family violence when he attacked his ex-wife and her parents in the presence of children. Gilas left bruises on the face of his former father-in-law, a pensioner. Behind Hazi and Gilas, the real house of Big Brother remained illegally built on the land of a children's facility "Pionirski grad" and rats and garbage in that house today. The tycoon of Gilas left tens of thousands of Roma and their children to whom he leveled houses with the ground, and then buried them in containers on the edges of Belgrade's forests, and all for the needs of another tycoon that built right in the locations where the Roma lived. The tycoon left swearings in the City Assembly when he cursed the 2008 committees in October and swearing in 2018 to poor students who threw him that he was a thief. Gilas remained a threat to police officers on several occasions, hurting 140 police officers during an attack on the Serbian Parliament, which he has just organised and supported. The Democratic Party, which he introduced into debt slavery, remained behind Gilas, is no less important. A 291-million-euro city building land Directorate was robbed behind Gilas. Belgrade's 1.2 billion-euro debt remained behind tycoon Gilas. After tycoon Gilas, there was a false reward he gave himself for the most manager, paid by 9,000 pounds to frauds from England, from Oxford, to mark himself with this false reward, which he still has. A sixm-euro budget for Belgrade was robbed behind tycoon Gilas in the reconstruction of Bulevara. The amount of eightm euros was robbed for fictitious consulting services related to Mosto via Ade, and then in the amount of sixm euros when installing a fake container and robbed the city's 100m-euro budget when building the Bridge itself over Ade which was built in the wrong place and in a completely wrong technological way, too expensive, of course. Gilasa, the tycoon, remained the profit of his 619m-euro companies while performing three state functions over 10 years. Since 2017, 500 mass lawsuits against media and individuals and journalists and editors have remained behind jilas' tycoon, which he submitted to prevent them from speaking, writing and investigating how he earned the 619m euros. Dragan Gilas left behind an attack on the RTS he organised and took part in. Behind the tycoon, Gilas remained robbed of RTS, while trading for seconds, time to advertise with his companies. The books of Goran Vesic and the persecution of the Goran Vesic family were burned behind the tycoon Gilas. The tycoon of Gilas remained a daily, years-long persecution and dehumanisation of all members of the Alexander Vukic family. Behind Dragan Dilas, I say in a quiet voice, there are other intimate photos with criminals and drug dealers Dabovic, Japanese, Jeremic, Bakic and Filipovic. Behind the League of Facts, the fact remains that he is a coward who has no courage to run for no function at any level in the state. The tycoon of Gilas remains behind, of course, his dear brother Gojko, who was very rich with his brother, co-owner or director of many of his brother Dragan's companies. The tycoon of Gilas has left a huge number of his associates from the time he was mayor. I will not read them by name and last name, 54, who have been arrested on charges that they have damaged the Belgrade city's budget for millions of euros. Behind the tycoon, Gilas is one of these, I will only mention him, remains Aleksandar Bijelic, an orphan, former Gilas city manager, who was arrested on suspicion that, during the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar, he damaged Belgrade's sixm-euro budget by misusing the situation. The indictment has been confirmed recently. There are 68m euros left behind tycoon Gilas in 53 accounts in 17 countries, a legacy. There's more. Behind the tycoon, and this is important for all citizens, they remained low average salaries of 40,000, that is in 2012. After the tycoon, Gilas remained one of the lowest employment rates of 44% of all. There remained a huge unemployment rate of as much as 25% behind tycoon Gilas. The tycoon of Gilas left an increase of 302,000 unemployed, meaning, with 433,000, when they came to power, at the end of 2012, there were 735,000 unemployed. The fact remains behind tycoon Gilas is that he's the head of the mob's political wing. The tycoon of Gilas remains a policy that makes him and Marinika the Serb people declared genocide. The fact remains behind tycoon Gilas that recently in Washington, all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija called criminals. That stays behind Dragan Gilas. What's behind President Wolfie? Serbia remains in place behind President Vukic, Serbia remains vaccinated. Serbia, which produces vaccines, remains behind President Vukic. Serbia remains preserved and built behind President Vukic. President Vukic remains a saved economy and the fact that he saved Serbia from bankruptcy. President Vukic remains a significant economic growth and raises Serbia's significant credit rating and a significantly better standard of living than by 2012 and remains low inflation. President Vukic remains a stable course of dinars and increased foreign exchange reserves. The development of sports infrastructure and sports remains largely behind President Vukic. The general renaissance of society, economy, agriculture, construction, the military remains behind President Vukic. After President Vukic, there remains a significant scholarship and youth employment. President Vukic is left with huge investments in all levels of the education system. President Vukic remains behind the construction and capital reconstruction of buildings in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbia's Kosovo and Metohija. President Vukic remains organised never more and never more organised financial assistance for Serbs in KIM. President Vukic remains behind strengthening the unity of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija at 99%. President Vukic remains the permanent financial and other assistance of the SPC. President Vukic remains behind monuments to Stefan Nemanja and Boris Pekic. President Vukic remains on the water for Belgrade. There are hundreds of miles of new highways left behind President Vukic. The new Jell-O Bridge in Novi Sad remains behind President Vukic. President Vukic remains behind, we remember, the saved pension fund remains an increase in pensions, rising salaries remain. Average earnings in this Vucic era in August 2021, the average earnings are 65,000 dinars. The unemployment rate of only 10% remains behind President Vukic. That's the 2019 data. President Vukic remains with reduced unemployment from 25% to 10%. President Vukic remains behind the fact that he has reduced the number of unemployed by 420,000 and remains an increase in earnings of more than 50% compared to 2012. President Vukic remains behind the fact that, according to IMF and European Commission projections, Serbia has the lowest GDP decline in Europe of only 1.5%. The reform of the tax administration and three new hospitals and huge investments in health and new railways remains behind President Vukic, and the most modern remains a clinical centre in the Balkans, the one that ended up in Nis. President Vukic will remain and will soon finish Serbia's Clinical Centre. President Vukic remains behind, and that is very important, the budget fund for treatment abroad, especially children. President Vukic remains an organized concern about rare diseases, of course, and children. President Vukic remains the law that encourages birth, remains a concern for people with disabilities. The level of environmental protection remains significantly higher behind President Vukic. Behind President Vukic, with this in mind, there remains an orderly dump of Vinca, which soon ends with a built factory and a power plant at the dump itself. President Vukic remains the reconstructed National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art, remains the new Cyrillic Act, remains the new Science and Technology Park on Starar, remains Serbia as leader in foreign investment. President Vukic remains behind the rescue of Željzar Smederevo, the base Bor and Galenika. There are hundreds of investment projects left behind President Vukic, where foreign employers who have opened, I think, will soon reach 100,000 jobs across Serbia. President Vukic remains saved and elevated "Telecom" who signed a strategic agreement with "Vodafon" and foreign investors predict that now Telecom, compared to when it could not be sold for a billion euros, now Telecom is worth about five billion euros. President Vukic leaves huge investments in the EPS, remains a saved and transformed national air carrier, remains the high airport "Nikola Tesla", remains a major development of tourism in Serbia. President Vukic remains significantly elevated Serbia's reputation in the world, remains to be strengthened by the military, by buying new systems of arms, aircraft, helicopters. The Serbian dedicated, military and defence industry remains significantly developed behind President Vukic. The newly built tv building remains behind President Vukic. President Vukic remains behind the renewed assignment of apartments to security forces. President Vukic remains a reduced crime rate, remains a successful fight against corruption, remains a successful fight against criminal clans. More than 40 justice facilities remain behind President Vukic. The law on preventing domestic violence remains behind President Vukic. And about Belgrade, because it is not less important, the President of Vučić remains reconstructed or built: The Square of the Republic, Cvetni trg, Kosančić's Venac, Slavi Square, Karadjordjeva Street and Savski kej, Usće Park, Pasarella on Calemegdan, 20,000 squares of the pedestrian zone in the center, Bulevar Liberation, Ruzveltova, Mije Kovačević, plato in front of the Church of St. Mark, Bulevar Prince Alexander Karadjordjevic, all of this was reconstructed, the Street of Duke Steps and the Circle of Autocommand, Brankov Bridge, Northern Access Traffic Station "The Bridge of Adi", Access Traffic Station Prokop and Open Phase 1 of Tashmajdan Stadium, the Toshan Stadium of Tosina, Brankov Bridge of Adi, Brankov Bridge of Ad, Bulevar, Maraj Kražica Dažica Dažica, Zaljica Barica, Zaljica. A magnificent fountain of Slavi remains behind President Vukic. The future behind President Vukic will remain something that is already under way, but which will be realized: Belgrade's subway, Belgrade-Bipest track, hundreds of miles of highways, Prokop station, finished "Belgrade on Water" and the entire Sava Promenade, a new bus stop on block 42, a new Sava bridge on the site of an old tramway, a bypass around Belgrade, a national wholesaler, a new Belgrade Museum and remains, no less important for the environment, in the future and five new waste water treatment plants in Belgrade. President Vukic's election wins remain convincing in the nine years since 2014 at all levels of government. It stays or will remain behind President Vukic, that's his legacy. I've only listed the part and I'll be done soon. Since I'm a nightmare and may be an unwanted voice of conscience that Gilas doesn't usually have, I'm telling Gilas that he forgot that man is doing deeds, not empty words or the wealth he stole. People do not make up tables that say Dragan Gilas is the owner of "Multicoma" or owner of the SAA. The man does not make up 619 million, 24 million in real estate, or 68m euros in 53 accounts in 17 countries. That is what Dragan Gilas does, and President Vukic has not been rich in politics in 28 years, nor have his family been enriched. Another important thing. The fact behind President Vukic will remain that neither he nor we from the SNS, nor the media who support us have demonized, dehumanised and attacked members of any family, or members of the opposition family, for example, Gilas, Jeremic, Marinika and others. The opposition's members have been dehumanising all members of President Vukic's family for years, and the party Dragan Gilas and the Gilasov media are ahead of it. So one advice to Gilas, when you publish these mindless predictions of what will remain behind, decorated with your selfies, remember the great writer Ernest Hemingway, who, by the way, took the title of his novel "Whom the bell ring" from the legendary song of English poet John Don of the 16th century, whose part is, "Never ask for whom the bell rings, it rings for you." Don't worry, Gilas, about what will become of the Wolf's legacy, but worry about the traces of your inhumanity. Long live Alexander Wolf. Long live Serbia and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10476	Thank you, Mr. Bakarec. In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour, and we continue our work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10477	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Based on the registered MPs from the list, the word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10478	Thank you, Chairman. In view of the importance of companies as legal entities that carry out certain activities in order to obtain a certain profit, it is clear how important it is for the development of any economy and business of business operators that this area is fully regulated. Also, given that the primary foreign policy objective of the Republic of Serbia is to join the EU, harmonising our legislation with EU rules is the basis of this process. Thus, according to the action plan of the programme to improve the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's balance sheet on operating conditions for 2020-2023, to better protect the rights of minority members of society, certain amendments and additions of the Business Society Act have been made. The bill is in fact a alignment with the provisions of the EU directive and the creation of conditions to improve Serbia's position on the World Bank's ranking list. One of the significant newspapers that this bill adopts is, for example, the case where companies, due to the inability to at times determine who their shareholders are so that they can communicate directly with them, now the intermediaries have an obligation to supply information on those shareholders at the request of the company. The relevant addition of the law also consists in more precise regulation of the possibility of showing the position of shareholders in relation to the remuneration policy and the stimulation of the director, i.e. the Executive Director and members of the Supervisory Board, if the company is two-home, thus increasing corporate transparency and the responsibility of the directors themselves. Furthermore, the provisions relating to the conclusion of matters of personal interest have been specified. All these changes will certainly result in greater legal certainty, better operating conditions and ultimately improving the investment climate in Serbia. In addition to this draft law, I would also briefly refer to the proposal for a law confirming the amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway. Norway and Serbia have concluded a number of agreements, and the 2009 Agricultural Products Agreement is concluded. The amendment to that Agreement concerns the determination of the concept of the EFTA State, i.e. The invitation to the EFTA States shall be deemed to be a call to Norway. It should be noted that Norway and Serbia have long-standing good and friendly political and economic relations. The trade is good, and the largest Norwegian investment in Serbia is the purchase of the Telenor mobile network and amounted to 1.5 billion euros in 2006. Also, Norway largely through various donations and projects provides significant funds for development assistance in Serbia. For example, in June of this year, with a total of $100,000, the Kingdom of Norway supported entrepreneurs in the area of agriculture to increase their sustainability and competitiveness capacity on the market. According to official data from the Kingdom of Norway, it has approximately 4% of farmland compared to the total area. In addition to such a small percentage of farmland and unfavourable natural conditions, agricultural production in this country should be more than modest. However, Norway has always given great importance to the development of agriculture through large subsidies to agricultural producers and to the rational and domestic respectively according to its production. Their systematic relationship is also recognised globally, so Norwegians are the founders of the World Seed Treasury, which is run by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It is the largest bank of plant genes in the world, open to save the plant world from destruction in the event of wars or major disasters, keeping samples of seeds from the world crop collection. Serbia joined the project by depositing 96 of the most significant domestic varieties of wheat, barley, oatmeal and rays this year, selected by the Novi Sad Institute of Ratio and Vrticulture. In this way, Serbia will contribute to global efforts to ensure future generations' food security. Otherwise, over a million seed samples from almost all countries of the world are stored on this unique base. I believe that this move by the Republic of Serbia is very important, because, as Thomas Jefferson said, agriculture is our wisest business because it will ultimately contribute to real wealth, good morals and happiness. Since Serbia is essentially a agricultural country with great potential in this area, co-operation with developed countries is very important. That's why it needs to be developed and nursed. It is precisely one of my Social Democratic Party of Serbia's programme goals for sustainable agricultural production, better quality and the greater health security of food. We believe that it is Serbia's interest to adapt its agriculture to EU standards and regulations, because the European market is, in fact, our market and our best buyer of agricultural products. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in the voting day will support all draft laws on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10479	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10480	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with an associate, distinguished fellow MPs, today we have before us amendments and additions to the Law on Business Society and the basic objective of these changes is to create a more favourable business environment for the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia and business of business entities in our country. Serbia has committed to taking over EU corporate law assets in its legal system, with which our domestic regulations are not yet fully in line. The company law regulates the legal position of companies, their establishment, management, status changes, changes in legal form, termination and other issues of importance for their position, as well as the legal position of entrepreneurs. We see from the APR data that entrepreneurs account for about 70% of the ownership structure of our economy. For the market economy, the most important thing is business freedom, so over time some economic operators come into existence and some cease to exist. More than 400,000 businesses are registered in Serbia at the moment, including 120,000 companies and about 280,000 entrepreneurs. According to the APR data for the last five years, the number of established companies in Serbia has increased by 12% and the number of entrepreneurs by 11%, which is an indicator of a significantly more favourable business climate and very large concerns of the state in terms of legal certainty, as well as various reliefs at the start of each business in terms of various subsidies and start-up credits, etc. According to some estimates, the average employees of our entrepreneurs are 2.4 employees, and when this would increase to a European average of 4 employees, this would mean another half a million new jobs and, of course, a major contribution to the increase in GDP. Serbia is the leader in the region when it comes to the number of jobs opened, through projects of foreign direct investment. In our country, the founder of any form of economic society can also be a foreign, physical person or a foreign legal person. Also, a foreign natural person can be registered as an entrepreneur without any additional conditions, of course, only a temporary stay of that person is required. Some studies show that over 30,000 companies in the past 2020 did not have any employees in our home. There are most of these companies in the sector of trade, processing industry, professional and scientific activity and construction. The most common are companies that want certain jobs to be completed in the short term, to cut costs based on workload, and one part of these companies serves to do jobs from the gray zone, so-called. It's a phantom company. The proposed amendments to the Law intend to specify existing provisions, provide for new regulations which increase the control of the work of companies and introduce new mechanisms and institutes into the legal regulation of business entities. It is certain that these new amendments to the Law will greatly improve the position of minority shareholders in achieving their rights and increase transparency in the financial expenditures of society. There's this problem with companies that they can't identify their shareholders and end-users. Their identification is a prerequisite for direct communication between them and the management of society. In this respect, shareholders are required to supply their full data on which they possess actions. In order to prevent the possibility of abuse of authorised persons, the law also introduces a mandatory remuneration policy for two-domeous companies. This fee should contain complete data on completed contracts, compensation structure, number of shares, all fixed and variable parts of fees. In addition to the compensation policy, the possibility of access to information on the grounds of directors and members of the Management Board has been increased. At the request of a person who has at least 5% of the shares will be allowed to receive information on the profits of the managing authority. On the other hand, a stronger framework for the management of companies is being set up to prevent the company’s personal interests from being above the interests of the company’s own administration. New amendments to the law also make it easier for entrepreneurs who are not allowed to perform their duties. They will be able to register a change in activity in order to maintain active status in order to continue to generate income and thus continue to provide for their own and their families the existence. A businessman who wants to name his firm will have to pay a tax of over 500,000 dinars, which is twice as much as before. Those who want to place the city's name in their name will depend on the tariffs prescribed by local self-government, for example, in Belgrade, Novi Sad, for over 100,000 dinars. In any case, amendments to the law will achieve greater transparency and legal certainty, thus improving business conditions and improving the investment climate. In the case of amendments to the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, it is a matter of harmonising with the provisions of the amended Protocol B on the definition of "products of origin and methods of administrative co-operation". The Republic of Serbia is concluding bilateral agreements with each EFTA State. This will be the fifth country to sign such an agreement as part of the instruments for establishing a free trade zone between Serbia and the EFTA States. Otherwise, Serbia has an honest partnership in the EU integration process with Norway, and since 2008, to date, the Kingdom of Norway has allowed Serbia 100m euros in free support for development. The Kingdom of Norway has supported the uniform development of less developed cities and municipalities and the empowerment of national institutions with more than eightm euros over the last three years through the "Norway for You" Project. Through various projects over 200 people received employment. More than 300 unemployed on a proposal for their employment skills, 160 micro and small enterprises have improved their business, while the infrastructure has improved into nine municipalities, giving about 50,000 citizens improved living conditions. Norway supported the strengthening of our health care unit by obtaining 20 respirators and other devices in May and June last year when it was most needed for our country. And indeed Norway has consistently supported our social economic development for many years through various programmes, in different ways and cooperation between our two countries is indeed an example of a successful partnership relationship. When it comes to the proposal for a decision on the selection of two members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, we see that it is about the selection of candidates who absolutely meet all the conditions and we hope that they will continue to contribute that this very important institution continues to work successfully. The proposals for a decision to elect the president of the Securities Commission are acceptable to us. This is about young, experienced professional people and we will support these suggestions. Each item of today's agenda will support the JS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10481	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10482	Dear Vice-President Kovac, distinguished Minister Komic with associate, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, will look back at the proposal for a decision to elect two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. Public procurement is a significant instrument for the development of modern states, as institutions provide objective and transparent procurement of goods, services and works with the promotion of responsible spending of budgets. Since significant public spending is done through a public procurement system, only a functional procurement system ensures efficient spending of taxpayers' money. The most important key principles of which depend on the efficiency of public procurement are the economicity of the use of public funds, the provision of competition and transparency. Public procurement has great importance, both at national and international level. In the EU, they represent a significant market. According to the European Commission, the total value of public procurement is 14% of the Union's GDP. According to data from the annual reports of the Public Procurement Office in 2020, 135,000 contracts of total value close to 400 billion dinars were completed following public procurement procedures carried out. This information in itself points to the exceptional importance of the public procurement system, as well as the importance of independent bodies that promote, direct and monitor public procurement. First of all, I mean the Public Procurement Office and the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. The public procurement programme in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2019 to 2023 defined the further development of a modern and efficient system through the full application of electronic communication methods, with the resulting improvement of efficiency and transparency and reduction of the risk of irregularity. A major step towards achieving all defined objectives is certainly the establishment of a public procurement portal. Therefore, mandatory electronic communication and the established portal contributes to the more efficient implementation of the procedures. The transparency of competition enables the purchase of goods, services and works under the most favourable conditions. This creates significant savings and the ability to use savings to increase the quantity and quality of services that the state provides to citizens, thus improving the standard of living. The simplified procedure via the portal also reduces the cost of preparing offers, resulting in an increase in the interest of business operators, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to participate in the public procurement market, which further contributes to a higher level of competition and to an increase in the average number of offers in procedures. As is known, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures on its work forms an annual report by 31 March of the current year for the previous year. According to the report on work for 2020, which we had the opportunity to discuss in June of this year in the National Assembly's plenary, we could see for ourselves the very complex and complex activities carried out by the Commission as a independent and independent body of the Republic of Serbia that provides protection of rights in public procurement procedures. I think it is important to refer to some irregularities in public procurement procedures that have been frequented and which occur in continuity for a longer period of time, which the Republic Commission has noted and as such pointed out in the report submitted in the resolution of the applications submitted. All mentioned irregularities relate to the production of competitive documentation with unclear content which does not allow bidders to prepare acceptable offers on the basis of which subjectivity in the handling of the contracting authority would be excluded when assessing the tenders. Irregularities also refer to technical specifications that are discriminatory. Of course, this affects a limited range of potential bidders and narrows down competition, which is a poor practice in implementing public procurement procedures and conflicts with the basic principles of competition security and the prohibition of discrimination in public procurement procedures. The identified irregularities in the report submitted in their nature and importance require that, in the exchange of experiences and knowledge in this area, measures are taken with other state authorities to reduce the frequency of these irregularities, increase competitiveness and eliminate discrimination, in order to increase efficiency and efficiency, i.e. to improve the overall system of public procurement. On 14 July 2021, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds adopted a decision to initiate the procedure and call a public competition for the selection of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, as their term of office expires on 27 December of this year. Following the election procedure, at the 45th session, held on 19 October, the Committee discussed the report of the Working Group on public competition procedures, discussed with all the candidates reported and after talks it identified the proposal for a decision on the selection of two members, by proposing Jelena Stojanovic and Svetlana Razic for members of the Commission. I note that the proposed candidates are members of the Commission and in the current term of office. The parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is of the opinion that the proposed candidate Jelena Stojanovic and Svetlana Razic meet all professional conditions for selecting a member of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, so we will support their election in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10483	Thank you. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly Stefan Krkobibic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10484	Dear Vice-President Kovac, Honorable Vice-President Zardisic, Honorable Minister Comic, representative of our parliamentary club and president of the Parliament club, Honorable MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic, spoke extensively today about all the legal solutions, and I will, above all, in my performance, be in touch with the Law on Confirmation and Amendment of the Agreement with the Kingdom of Norway. First of all, I would like to explain why the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P" will support the Law confirming the amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway. When it comes to the preservation of the so-called. EU values are considered to be at the head of this mission by a country that is not a member of the EU at all, which is precisely the Kingdom of Norway. Norway, for example, is a member of the NATO Pact, but that did not prevent the country's citizens from rejecting EU membership twice in the referendum, and it is believed that more than 70% of Norwegians today do not want the country's entry into the EU. On the other hand, however, Norway entered the so-called Europe's economic space has become part of the single market and is implementing and following almost three-quarters of the European directives. It's thought to be the so-called. The Norwegian model in relations with Brussels is the most comprehensive agreement a rich country outside the EU has signed with the EU. Norway pays its EU internal market access to large grants for 15 economically less developed EU members. Why is developing and deepening relations with the Kingdom of Norway particularly important to us? It is about the House of Norwegian-Serbian, once Yugoslav-Norway friendship, built in 1987, as a token of the friendship of Serbs and Norwegians, forged in the difficult years of World War II. In 1942, German fascists took Banjic and Simište from Belgrade camps to Norway 4.208 campers, and of which 3,841 Serbs, to build roads and railways in the north of the country towards Finland, or the Soviet Union, etc. "Blood Road." By 1945, he was killed or died of the disease and exhaustion of 3,000 of these people. The local Norwegian population, as much as possible, helped Serbian campers in food, drink and clothing. After the war, 15 cities from both countries were harvested, and in the duboresis in the Norwegian-Serbian house the words of then Norwegian King Olaf the Fifth - We in Norway greatly appreciate the friendship of the two peoples and we gladly give our best wishes and greetings in this way. These are just some of the additional reasons why the PUPS as a party that inherits the anti-fascist tradition of our country and people, as well as the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P", will support amendments to the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway. To remind us, it is an agreement from a set of acts that further bilaterally regulate relations in the area of free trade between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States, such as, other than Norway, Iceland, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, countries that are also not members of the EU. As the president of the PUPS Parliament Club - "Tri P" and this agreement and other acts in today's agenda mentioned at the beginning of his presentation, we will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10485	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Adriana Pupovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10486	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. The Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is in front of us an extremely important proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Business Society, proposed to improve the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank list to be achieved by improving positive practices and regulations in all ten areas accompanied by the reference list. The World Bank monitors business conditions in 190 countries around the world. Our citizens should know that in 2020, the Republic of Serbia in the field of protection of minority shareholders made progress for 46 places, i.e. As compared to the year 2019 when it was 83rd, it was ranked 37th in 2020. In order to improve transparency between companies and investors, the law covers all legal forms of society, inter alia, in command, a limited liability company and a company of action. Since I come from the city of copper and gold, from the city of Bor, I will talk about one of the largest and most profitable companies in the Republic of Serbia, and this is certainly the copper and gold mine in Bora “Serbia Zijdin Koper” d.o.o. Bor, whose net profit in 2020 compared to 2019, increased 2.6 times. I must remind my fellow citizens, my Borana and Majdanpecana, that at the time of the rule of the previous government, depicted in the image and in the work of Boris Tadic, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, various tadicians, Gilasovci, the Armenians suggested that instead of exploiting copper ore and gold we plant peanuts and turn mining-topic plants into workshops for building chairs and legers for tables. And so left behind, we were all hostages of their irresponsible, ossion, blatant authorities. The employees experienced that instead of pay, they were fired and on the exit boards in Bor and Majdanpek were inscriptions – the last to come out let the light go out. Then, thanks to the people, Alexander Vukic came to power, who instead of turning off the lights with the cooperative investment partners from the People's Republic of China managed to provide for our citizens and our children a safer but brighter future. Because of our citizens, I must repeat all of this, that no city in Serbia will ever experience the former fate of Majdanpek and Bora, the manifesto of the declared ultimate objectives of the irresponsible democratic government. That is why I am sure that the citizens of the Borsko District, but also of all Serbia, will stand firm in defence of themselves and their families in the upcoming elections and support Serbia's largest statesman, Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. That the largest state-of-the-art statesman also shows the fact that in a limited-responsibility society "Serbia Zijdin Koper" the control package also has a government of the Republic of Serbia of 37% ownership. The wrinkles are aware that the problems did not arise overnight and that they cannot be resolved so quickly, but by reconstructing the watermelon, which is under way, building a green mine will improve the protection of the environment already followed by a better standard of living for citizens. Thanks to the successful business of Zijdina, the city of Bora's budget is also increased, investment in public infrastructure, urban, educational, production-economic, the end of the city and rural asphaltation of streets and roads is expected, improvement of electricity, construction of the Bora and Majdanpek acid water treatment system lying on the Borska River and Timok River, strengthening sports in the city and villages, and most importantly, the standard of living has been raised, showing that there are very few unemployed women left and there are hardly any production interests in Bora, nor in Majdanpek that are not employed. Thanks to the investment of Zijjina in RTB Bor, the average salary in the company for 5,500 employees today is 98,200 dinars, with a further trend of growth. The mine employees finally welcomed the earned profits, even thinking that in the coming period the city of Bor will be first in all Belgrade municipalities. The revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget from the mining rent has been increased three times, from three to ninem euros annually. On October 22nd, 2021, near Bora Aleksandar Vukic, with Chinese partners, opened the first green copper and gold mine in the Republic of Serbia, meaning using modern technology when digging up ore and the highest standards in the field of environmental protection. The opening of a new mine, along with the citizens of the Borsko district, where more than 1,200 people are expected to be employed, Benefit also expects the National Bank of Serbia, which will allow the purchase of gold at favourable prices, and thus increase the gold reserve. The opening of a new mine also affects GDP growth, while part, as well as the share of copper production, will be increased by 18%, which will place the Republic of Serbia second in the coming period to the production of copper in Europe, right after the Republic of Poland. As much as our president and members of the government are concerned about their citizens, in this case, primarily the Minister of Industry, shows today's proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Business Companies, whose adoption, in addition to improving the protection of minority members of society, will achieve greater transparency, but also legal certainty, improve the conditions of business and initiatives that are an initial step in creating a favourable investment climate in the Republic of Serbia, means the inflow of foreign investment. Therefore, in the day of the vote, Alexander Vukic, for what is most sacred to us, will give full support to the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Society, which I propose to the other MPs, regardless of which parliamentary group they belong. On that behalf, lived President Aleksandar Vukic, lived in the Borski administrative district, lived decent Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10487	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10488	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the distinguished minister with co-worker, co-worker and fellow MPs, is always affirmative and good when we speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia of Serbia of the agenda concerning co-operation agreements, which shows the proactive role and desire of all the authorities and institutions in our country to improve co-operation with different countries from different areas. What I would say at the outset is that, as the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group Uglješa Markovic said, I will talk about the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway. At the very beginning, I would also remind that bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway were established back in 1917. What is important to us is that friendship between Serbia and Norway dates before, more specifically when a group of Norwegian doctors and nurses came voluntarily to Serbia to help hospitals during the Balkan wars and during World War I. Of course, the common fact is that our friendship was further strengthened during World War II, when Norwegians and Norwegians unselfishly provided assistance to Yugoslav prisoners of war in Nazi camps. Our bilateral relations still today characterize the positive dynamics of political dialogue, characterized by good relations, but also by the existence of mutual interest in improving all kinds of co-operation. I must say that in recent years what is extremely important, and that is that from the political sphere, that is, the political co-operation plan, as well as the economic, this co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, has become an area of culture. That's why I have to mention one event that is actually a month of Norwegian culture held in Belgrade, as well as in other cities, and it's called Noktobar. When we talk about culture, it is important to mention a cultural and historical good that is both a mark and a symbol of Gornji Milanovac. Of course, it's a Serbian Norwegian house, which is actually built to represent the friendship of two peoples. This house is a combination of the sprawl and Norwegian culture, symbolises the Serbian traditional cabin, but also the Viking ship, connected in one continent, and thus symbolically represents a solid friendship between our two peoples. What may be the most significant thing for us today, when we talk about the tide, is to mention that for years Norway has consistently supported the development of Serbia's socio-economic progress and that in the last 15 years, we have now had the opportunity to hear, in fact, one of the biggest bilateral donors here several times. Norway donated more than 200m euros of development aid through various donations through various programmes, as well as through various grants to NGOs. It is important to remind that Norway also provided assistance to Serbia when we needed assistance from the damage caused by the flood, as well as to combat the migrant crisis. The latest we can mention when it comes to Norwegian co-operation is that Norway has donated five million euros to us at the beginning of the pandemic in these difficult times, when it itself faces a health crisis. The conclusion of these bilateral agreements, i.e. a bilateral agreement with the Kingdom of Norway, relating to agricultural products, was also preceded by bilateral agreements with all other EFTA States, i.e. Switzerland, Iceland and Liechtenstein. It is important that these bilateral agreements were preceded by the Free Trade Agreement, which was concluded in 2009 and entered into force in 2010, which established a free trade zone between these countries and our country. This Agreement, like all other agreements that the Republic of Serbia has with the EFTA States, allows for exports of Serbian products without customs duties and thus contributes to better positioning our agricultural products given that this is a market of 13 million inhabitants. These agreements are also important to all our agricultural producers, they are important to all our exporters, especially because they contribute to Serbia's better positioning on the European market, but also to the free trade regime. I think it is extremely important when it comes to co-operation with Norway to mention the last month's activity, which is that Serbia first deposited its agricultural seed into the world's seed vault, which is next to Svalbard. The Archipelago Svalbard actually finds itself halfway between the mainland of Norway and the North Pole, and that's where the global seed bank is located, and it represents a sort of database, a single seed base from all over the world, that is, almost all countries of the world. Serbia deposited 96 of the most significant agricultural cultures in this vault, and I mean first of all wheat, barley, oatmeal and rye, which has been chosen by the Institute of War and vegetation, and thus we have contributed to the global efforts to achieve food security of future generations. In this way we have managed to preserve those most precious agricultural cultures that have been grown in our premises, and above all, these are indigenous varieties, and they are located in our spaces. Just when we talk about systemic strategic investment in our agrarian sector, it is important that we continue all of the activities we have carried out so far, so that our agriculture is as productive as possible, as efficient as possible, and as more resistant to climate change. I therefore believe that our agricultural producers, in order to continue and respond to the challenges of modern society, in order to actually respond to the demands of modern consumers, we must constantly encourage them to join as much as possible, to invest and influence, to actually apply new technology, and that is an important thing, because the perspective of our agricultural production and not only meeting our domestic needs, the perspective of our agricultural production is exactly the export orientation and not just raw material, but the export orientation of finished products. Therefore, it is extremely important that we co-operate today with many countries of the world, and when it comes to the area of agricultural culture, these steps that we are achieving today, and when it comes to this agreement with Norway, because by opening new markets, we contribute to making our agricultural products available and more represented in the world's most demanding markets. By doing so, we will also succeed what we want, which is that agriculture is not only a developmental opportunity but that it is our developmental priority. At the very end, when we are talking about friendship and co-operation between states, we know that friendship and co-operation is not only necessary to make it together, it is necessary to constantly and constantly cultivate it, and in this sense, our cooperation and our friendship with Norway will be best done by further improving bilateral relations, by further improving both politically and economically. Today, this agreement on agricultural products will contribute to a better and greater external trade exchange, which is an important segment of the overall economic and economic co-operation that the two countries can have. That is why the SPS parliamentary group will vote for all points on the agenda, because we believe that just by improving the normative framework, we are actually contributing to a better improvement in our country's economic environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10489	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Mirela Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10490	The President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the distinguished minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, we had the opportunity to hear in the opening statement by the Minister of Importantness of the Law on Business Society. This law is another indicator that SNS is working in the interest of citizens. It is clear to all of us that the economy is an important economic driver. Economic indicators and economic growth data are clear. These are things that are measurable and clearly show how much we have invested in travel infrastructure, energy, ecology. International financial institutions also talk about it. The company law is very important for the creation of a favourable business environment, for the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia and business of business entities. This law clearly defines fees to directors and supervisory committees which establish the competent authorities of the company, and also gives shareholders the opportunity to give their views on the compensation policy. Also, this law regulates the EU's legal assets with domestic laws in the areas of corporate law that our laws have so far not been in line with. This law also protects the legal framework of minority members of society. Business societies are carriers of economic development, and certainly it is our task to work to improve their position. I think it is of great importance to visit the economy minister throughout Serbia. In discussions with them on the problems they face and the incentives that the state gives to our businesses are also of great importance. The improvement of the business environment gives us another opportunity to keep young people in Serbia, and certainly it is the most beautiful and important work in its country. The government of the Republic of Serbia, together with President Aleksandar Vukic, is working to improve our economy. We create a positive climate for foreign investors to arrive, but we also take care of domestic businesses. Through various kinds of support in these difficult times, countries have helped businesses, and in this way we have preserved jobs. Through incentives to entrepreneurship, we helped our businesses, or the state helped our businesses to buy machines, to adapt the business space, to adapt the storage space, to buy computer equipment. Also, various kinds of seminars and training were held. For the first time, we have an incentive to support young people and women for whom the Ministry of Economy has defined 100 million dinars of grants. Serbia is today on its way to being the region's most economically strong country. Serbia today is a strong and stable country that is developing evenly. In these difficult times when the whole world is struggling with a crisis caused by a coronary virus, foreign investors continue to invest in our country. I think it's the best indicator of how much someone believes in the future of our country. The total level of foreign direct investment in the Republic of Serbia is more than three billion and 140m euros. It is the best indicator that Serbia is the champion in attracting foreign direct investment. President Vukic opened more than 230 factories throughout Serbia. By the end of the year in Kragujevac, "The damage" runs the production of trams. New jobs will be provided in Šumadia, as well as new opportunities for domestic producers. The economic measures we implemented during last year, which we are implementing and during this year to prevent the effects of the pandemic, amounted to eight billion euros, all in order to improve our citizens' living standards. All this stuff that I was talking about today, it certainly didn't happen overnight. The responsible policy of President Alexander Vukic is behind this. His struggle for Serbian citizens is daily. We have an increase in pensions and wages ahead of us. Pensions will be increased by 5.5% per Swiss formula, while salaries for public sector employees will be increased by 7%, while salaries of health workers, the military, social protection will be increased by 8%. They know Serbian citizens and see where Serbia was in 2012, and where Serbia is today. They know that our country today is respected both in the region and in the world. Economic strength, that the policy implemented by President Vukic provides sustainable economic growth and regional stability, while the opposition's policy is being viewed in daily attacks on President Vukic and his family. As before each election, they share their propaganda material in which they promise citizens thousands of euros. We all know today that paper suffers everything and that it's a promise. I'm sure the citizens of Serbia know how it lived in the time of Dragan Gilas and none of us want that time back. I will finish my presentation today with the sentence of President Vukic -- this is Serbia's second face. Everything we've dreamed of becomes reality. Long live Serbia, lived Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10491	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic Society, their internal organisation, the way of rewarding, the way of controlling shareholders, the way of taking over is regulated. For us, companies are very important. Companies are those societies that create a new value, which employ hundreds of thousands of people, businesses are also the ones who earn salaries in the republican authorities of the administration and for salaries in the education system, salaries for the police, for the military, for the health system. It's what companies earn. Of course, the Republic of Serbia is trying to create a better environment to create new companies, to have even better conditions and to achieve even better business results. But what surprises me is that the policy that's been being implemented here for nine years and some month constantly attacking, constantly criticising, constantly finding faults so-called. Permanently, unfairly, incorrectly, falsely attack. I don't care if it's Gilas, if it's Tadic, whether it's Solak, whether it's Vuk Jeremic. For me, they're exactly the same, it's the former regime. They are to me the Democratic Party, no other party, and the fact that they argued with each other is their problem, while they were in power was the Democratic Party and I see no difference between them. Some have pretended to be beautiful and smart, others have not been made at all, but have stolen in every way possible, the result is known, it is hundreds of thousands of lost jobs and thousands of closed factories and companies. What was it that kept them together in this Democratic Party so much fighting? Two things. One is called power. The other one's called money. As the authorities went missing, and the money was getting smaller, so they started arguing with each other, accusing each other, getting together a little bit, a little quiet, etc. But it just shows what kind of group it was that literally led Serbia to the brink of collapse. That's what they have in common. But I'm surprised by another thing, do they really think we're crazy, do they really think that we don't know that we forgot what they were doing while they were in power. Here, we had about a week ago, maybe a dozen, there were some Nikezic, Šoškić, Milojko Arsic. They were talking about some fairy tales. I see again that the former regime is trying in any way to accuse the current government of some failures and the first thing you will hear from them is inflation. Here, that's if they attacked yesterday. It says inflation. Inflation in Serbia for 2021 will be about 3.5%. I agree that for governments that have been selected today, this is relatively high inflation. Relatively high because inflation since the Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandar Vukic in power ranged 1.5%, 1.7%, 2%, 2.5%, was not some inflation that caused problems for businesses and citizens. Could have been with that inflation, say 2015. - 1.9%, 2016. - 1.2%, 2017. – 3%, 2018. - 2%, 2019. - 1.7%, 2020. - 1.6%. Now, imagine, someone says -- you're guilty of 3.5% inflation, and they forget that, let's say, while DS was in power in 2008 inflation was 10.9%. Look, all these years I've read during the SNS government, to add inflation, that inflation is less than a year of DS authorities. In 2009, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the Kingdom, the United There are. But what kind of mechanism did they stop? Well, they increased the reference interest rate. That doesn't mean anything to the citizens if I say anything, but if I say any credit that citizens have to collect, then let's figure out if it's better to control inflation to 3%, 3.5% than to increase the reference interest rate from which only banks will benefit. But it's just one thing. Well, it says -- inflation is caused by the price of oil derivatives, and oil derivatives are unusually expensive because of a major state procedure, so, specifically, gasoline and diesel fuel, and they say it's because of the high excise duty we have. Why don't they say they brought that excise? Why doesn't the DS and their regime, formerly, say that excises and tax policies were established during their government? And it's not true that the fuel is now more expensive than it was during their government in 2012, about there was, the dinar, the two, the worse, the downside, but it won't say it either. Now I have to ask one question. If excise duties and taxes are something that we make roads, hospitals, kindergartens, schools, we provide more income to administration employees and health care systems, can anyone tell me, did the former regime do anything from these excises and taxes until 2012? Did they do anything for Serbia? Have they done anything for the citizens of Serbia? Did they do it some time? Did they build a hospital? I'm talking about clinical centers so I don't talk. Did they reconstruct any schools, build a preschool facility? Anything that they've done, and they've caught every liter of fuel just as much as this current regime. They built a bridge on Ada, which costs, what, 650m euros. Five days ago, the president of the Republic of Serbia attended the ceremony to mark the start of works on the construction of a fast road, a quick section from Pogorec to Golubac. It's about 60 miles, maybe more. That costs 300m euros. Dragan Gilasu's one bridge cost 600 and change. So much for how they led Serbia. You know what they're going to attack next, the next attack the consumer basket, so it says this - minimum profit has to be worth a minimum consumer basket. Here's what it looks like during their government. The minimum earnings in 2008 were 159 euros, 2009 161 euros, 2010 154 euros and 2011, I guess due to the elections, 169 euros. So within four years, the former regime's government managed to raise a minimum profit of only 10 euros from 159 to 169. And in 2012, 172 euros was, and in 2020, 256 euros, more than 80 euros. And then they'll talk about how minimum earnings should be at the lowest value of minimum consumer baskets. I agree it should be, but it can't happen overnight, but they would reach that price of minimum consumer baskets in one 150 years, that much. But that's when someone thinks we're short-lived, short-minded, so we don't want to remind citizens what they were when they were in power. The next thing they attack, they say -- foreign investments, a lot of money the government of the Republic of Serbia gives to foreign investments, and domestic investors are in an unfavourable position compared to them. First, it's not true, it's an absolute lie, an absolute lie. For each job, the same will be given both by foreign and domestic investors. But it's a state-of-the-art indignity to have a representative of the former regime to whom the largest foreign investment was, you know? Sales of ‘C market’ ‘Delezu’. It's their biggest foreign investment. And Miskovic sold "Deleza", Serbia did not benefit from that. The money could not even be used to stabilise the dinars from the euro, because it ended up in Cyprus, part in Bulgaria, part of Slovenia. But imagine, you're the ultimate insolence to get out and say, "Your foreign investments are not good." In doing so, he forgets that these small, micro and medium-sized enterprises cannot survive without large systems. Here, for example. Sartid, there is now Hestil, so these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that work with Hestille employ at least as many people as they hire and directly "Hestil". If it wasn't for Hestil, there wouldn't be any of them. As a rule, they have about the same salary because they have to compete with Hesteel. But, you know, when someone doesn't know the economy, when they don't know the rules, when they think we're short-term memories and short-term brains, they think they can lie, they don't tell the truth and get some cheap political points. They say this, and this is also a top-notch mess, says – in 2020 there was a small decline in gross products because otherwise we have a small gross product in nominal amount, so he couldn't fall much. All right. Well, in 2020, the gross product in the Republic of Serbia was 46,796,400,000 euros and dropped by 0.9%. The DS's Veseko, he believes, for example, that 32,486.200,000 euros is more than 46 billion 796m euros. And do you know what the fall was in 2009? Minus 2.7%. And could we compare the crisis that was in 2009 to the economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus? We can't. The one from 2008, 2009 was a little baby for this crisis. Is it more than 32 billion than 46? How did such a small gross product fall by almost 3% during the DS government, and even less than 46 billion in 2020 by 0.9%? Now you see how they try to play numbers, replace the thesis to get some political points. The next thing they're going to attack is that we shouldn't have given Serbian citizens any help, that we shouldn't have given an economy, that if we had to do it selectively, etc., etc. Okay, so we came to the conclusion that they never gave anything to the citizens of Serbia and that if they did, they were always somehow the same citizens in the downfall as much as they got from the former regime. What's with all the fear? I think the former regime is afraid we'll share everything with the citizens, that there'll be nothing left for them if it brings some miracle to power. I can only tell them not to worry. The money in the state register, which is so much more difficult for those who have ruined so much while in power, will always be enough to gradually increase the salaries of public sector employees, salaries in the military, in the police, in the health system, in education, to gradually increase pensions, to build up the Republic of Serbia. There'll always be enough money for that. I don't see what miracle can bring them to power. As you can see, the EU has given up coming to the rule of Dragan Gilas, the DS and the former regime. It seems to me that they've been to America infamously. They only have Kurti left, and Kurti in Serbia, this one here, is asking nothing. So they're afraid for free, they're afraid for free, there's no government register for them anymore, and there's never gonna be.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10493	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Next is counterpart Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10494	Thank you, Chairman. Today we are talking about a law that is important for the creation of a favourable business environment for the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia and for the business of economic operators on our country's territory, and such entities are growing more and more, thanks to the politics of President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is absolutely so. We had the information that at the end of October this year... We have data that in Serbia, that we have received, that we have attracted, received more than three billion and 140m euros. So, three billion and 140m euros of foreign direct investment, and that is the most convincing in the region, and that is more than 60% of the total investment that is being made in the Western Balkans, and these figures certainly wouldn't be the same if, as I said at the beginning, the responsible policies of President Aleksandr Vukic and the reputation of Serbia that today has the responsible work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for these investments, the largest number is certainly from the EU, from the United States, but certainly the number of investments from the east, from the People's Republic of China, from Japan, South Korea, but certainly also from the Russian Federation. In addition to everything else, this is certainly what contributes to our country's growth and we expect to end this year with a growth of over 7%, which automatically means more salaries and higher pensions and the realisation of all the infrastructure projects that have started, and certainly a continuation, that is, the launch of some new significant capital projects for the Republic of Serbia. The law we are talking about today, so the Business Society Act, is important for a better business environment, for our economy and thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic in Serbia, has created a good business environment, never better. First of all, it is important because peace and stability are preserved in our country. The country is economically strengthened, the country has been restored to international reputation and a lot of money is being invested in infrastructure and I think everyone understands how important investment in infrastructure, in roads, in modern railways is. These are some basic, elemental things to attract investment and Serbia is now over-netified by roads, besides these roads are opening factories, people are hiring and staying in places where they are now and based their families. All of this was done by President Aleksandar Vucic in a devastated, devastated Serbia, as left by the tycoon-mafian regime and how Dragan Gilas would want to see it again, but Serbian citizens know very well what our paths were until a few years ago, what our hospitals were, what our salaries were, what pensions were, were barely paid, and during the former regime, 700,000 people were out of work just stringing locks at the factory door. It is a wasteland left behind by Tadic, Jeremic and Djilas. The Serbian desolation expert, Dragan Gilas, is leaving for America these days and presents the most terrible insults and abominations about his people, about the Serbian people, about the state of Serbia. That's a big shame. He never went abroad, while in power, to do something good for Serbia, to make contact, to attract some investment, but to go to save his money in countries around the world, and now all these foreign departures are about begging for someone to bring him to power in Serbia. Thus, the hater of the Serbian people and the hater of the Serbian state and simply an anti-stater, after insulting the Serbian people in America, gives himself the right to say what will remain in Serbia after Alexander Vukic. What's left behind, and in fact what's left of him is definitely 619m euros he's admitted to having, is 68m euros on 53 euros in 53 accounts in 17 countries in the world, are dozens of apartments on behalf of his brother, is certainly the Big Brother's house on the property of the children's facility Pioneer City, is the biggest robbery and resale of TV seconds and the City Land Directorate has also been robbed, etc., a lot of it. That's all that's left in his accounts and desolation in the state of Serbia. That's what's left, and today while the opposition is, we can't even say the opposition, it's the former regime, and the structures that act can't be called a political party, because it's a classic company, a classic company that in its work programme, where Marinika, Nikezic, Stevanovic, etc., their job is just to harm the reputation of Serbia, to criminalise President Aleksandr Vukic, they finance the media that curse the mother of President Aleksandr Vukic, who criminalises his family, makes them legitimate targets, and that's what employees in the Party of Freedom and Justice do, so in the company "Multi". This is what the former mafia-Tacun regime has done, and what President Aleksandar Vukic has created and what the real results we see from day to day, and we see in particular the way and the entire work he's done since 2014, how well he's contributed, to cope with this pandemic and these days we have good results. Here in the last few weeks, starting with a positive report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress, so, building subways, building highways, building fast roads, coming new factories, we have the biggest growth in Europe, as I said, a good response during the pandemic, eight billion euros has been invested in helping businesses and citizens, we have enough vaccines, we have five kinds of vaccines, and not only that, we have a vaccine factory in Serbia and few countries in the world can boast of these results. Finally, I want to say that all this is certainly important for the entire economic environment in Serbia, and it is good news for our citizens that from the new year we are going with a further increase in wages and pensions. It is important to say that the minimum earnings in Serbia will be almost 300 euros and what is a good indicator is that the share of the salary in the total GDP is decreasing, which is good, as investment is increasing. It is also important that we continue to work on reducing the burden on the economy, discharging the economy when it comes to profit tax. To conclude that while President Aleksandar Vukic is fighting for a strong, modern, successful and advanced Serbia, Gilas and his employees are seeking sanctions from Serbia, seeking sanctions from the legitimately elected president, seeking sanctions from the Serbian people, seeking coverage for their tycoon combinations, for their stolen millions, but do not know that this will not lead them to power in Serbia, because in Serbia the people decide who will come to power, Serbian citizens say that politics, policies of clear plans, not politics, or what they were, which is crime, say not to destroy the state register and those who fill their own pockets, who insult the Serbian people and destroy the reputation of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10495	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The next MP is Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10496	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers Comić, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very important bill proposals are now ahead of us, and I would like to stress immediately that I strongly support and agree with all of those arguments that we have heard in the current course of the debate, and we have heard a lot of concrete data, mainly from our authorised representative, Mrs Tomic, as well as the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Mr Marinkovic, we have heard what the goals we want to achieve, we have heard many concrete results that we have achieved so far in all areas, and in particular the economy, and that is what unequivocally, I would say, shows that we are on the right track and that we are a clear leader in the region. However, the chairman, I cannot help but look back on what is happening these days, which is a strong campaign that is being conducted against Serbia, which in my opinion is just a direct consequence of the successes of Serbia that I have spoken about and in this campaign are preceded by numerous media from the region, Pristina, Zagreb, especially from Zagreb in recent days, where Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is the daily subject of the worst possible attacks, insults, abominations, and they have literally introduced the daily section of Aleksandar Vukic in his media. So, I don't know if there's another country in the world where the president of another country, neighbouring countries, is the main issue every day in the media, and it's already taken the situation of collective hysteria, because it literally didn't pass the day without Vukic being the subject of more and more imaginative and imaginative accusations and nonsense. Here, what is the last of two days ago, the Croatian portal 24hr which publishes an article in which psychologists, some psychologists, do not state who declare about Vukic, so it says: “supply ego, narcissism, without empathy, hooligan mentality” etc., etc. a whole series of grosses, insults, accusations, etc. This is a picture of what the media situation in our neighbouring country looks like today. Just a few days ago, we had an organized attack on Danil Vukic, the son of Serbian President by the same regional media, and that is now something that has become constant in their relationship with Serbia. If you are interested, the chairman, why this is happening is why it is obviously not possible to reconcile with the fact that Serbia is growing stronger and stronger from day to day in every sense, especially in terms of economy, strengthening the economy, strengthening the economy, so by all possible parameters, we have overtaken most of the countries in the region, and some of the countries in the region for which we have been coughing back today and we are slowly overcoming them. Of course it doesn't suit anyone, of course nobody likes it. Why would Serbia, which was weak by yesterday and on its knees today, be strong, upright and what is most important, independent and independent in decision-making. Of course, they don't like such a Serbia, and in that sense we should also look at policy moves from the region, and if you've noticed a certain nervousness in recent days, you've seen Komsic interrupt the interview as the last one, let's say, a coward just because a journalist dared to say he personally disagreed with a certain, let's say, formulation. Well, of course she disagrees, and why should she agree, well, everyone in the world knows it's a political qualification. The most common floral political qualification, which is also mounted to be the subject of daily political pressures on both Republika Srpska and Serbia. Well done to the journalist, I think it's the journalist "Tanjuga" but it's an honor. Personally, I think it's a mistake that they even did an interview with Komsic, because what does Komsic have to say? What from Komsic we can hear without having heard it already, and it is not for who knows which time a repeated lie or some nonsense about how Serbs are a genocide people, how Republika Srpska is a genocide, how Kosovo should be independent, etc. and other anti-Serbian thesis and attitudes. However, the chairman, in my opinion, is a much bigger problem, which is that there are domestic media, a whole series of domestic media, which is in turn these Gilas media that absolutely support such a narrative and everything that is directed against Serbia, against the Serbian national interests, is good for them. Yesterday, you saw that rampage in downtown Belgrade, the rampage of various car drivers on Negos street in Vracara because of General Ratko Mladic's mural, you saw Aida Corovic and others representing themselves as some civil activists, all of whom are the most common party activists. Different political options, but they all come from once DS, and all, at least the vast majority today, are directly controlled by Dragan Gilas. And now they're some kind of civil activist. There was also Balsa Bozovic and Bane Kuzmanovic, the former president of Vračar municipality and the entire DOS playmate who is now acting as some kind of civil activist. Any honor to the police that has prevented any incidents by an excellent organization has prevented any violence, except that these gentlemen have shown their incompetence and primitiveism. That's your fake elite. That's your fake citizen. They're all fake. False elite, false citizens, false Democrats. This Aida Ćorovic was an MP here in the National Assembly and selected it on the DS list and as a member of their parliamentary club, and now she throws eggs around the city in her spare time. She goes wild all over town and throws and wonders what she's been brought in for. Well, in another country, they'd take her for observation at some appropriate facility right now. But they are now the heroes of these Gilas media. So anyone who has anything to say against Serbia, against Serbian national interests, to them "N1" and other Gilas and Solakov media are opening doors, it is acceptable for them and immediately becomes those stars. As the other day, if you were watching, Danica Vukenic on the subject of BiH's situation does not make an interview with Dodik or any other representative of the Serb people. So for her, they're not adequate conversators. It is, of course, an interview with Bakir Izetbegovic and for who knows which way it opens and gives space to bring all the worst about Serbs, about the Serbian people, about our politicians there, about Alexander Vukic, who is their daily topic. Also, you've noticed lately, actually yesterday, and today, general hysteria and these media, I'd say collective joy. Be careful now, because of one news that says that Serbia is not invited to some meeting, a seminar, a summit, I don't know exactly what this is about. So, it's some sort of a democracy meeting that nobody knows about or the criteria for who calls, who calls, who participates in that meeting, but it's their main news now. They are now collectively looking forward to the fact that Serbia is not invited to some meeting there. So, the point is that I end up with this, everything directed against Serbia, Serbia's national interests, it gets support and space with Gilasovac, with their media, and therefore it doesn't have to be surprising to the chairman of why they are campaigning unmistakable 24 hours a day, seven days a week against Alexander Vukic, because he is exactly the most powerful defender or defender of Serbian national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10497	Thank you. Next up, she's a colleague of Milica Dacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10498	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Hardisic, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the government, dear citizens of Serbia, as everyone knows, the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a single market, takes care of the legal position of economic operators and the system of performing certain economic activities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this respect, the amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Society, which are now on the agenda, are of particular importance for the creation of a favourable business environment, for the development of business activities and business of all economic operators in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We, recall, in 2017, adopted a negotiating position for Chapter 6 - The right of companies, where Serbia has committed to bring its legal system into line with EU legal assets in the area of corporate law. That we are successful in this business also confirms the European Commission's latest report on Serbia's progress in the economy, where it is pointed out in particular that thanks to the exceptional growth in the pre-crisis period caused by the virus, we have managed to mitigate these consequences. The changes we are talking about today will improve the legal position and protection of minority shareholders, members of a business society, but will certainly affect Serbia's position on the "Ding" business list. What is particularly important in addition to all other newspapers brought by this Proposal is the amendment and addition of the Business Society Act, and it is particularly important to introduce judicial protection for those persons whose addresses of dwellings without their knowledge and consent are registered in the Register of Business Entities, where they are registered as addresses of companies and entrepreneurs. The registration procedure at the Agency for Business Registers shall take place on the principle of formalities, in which the registrar is not authorised to investigate whether at the time of submission of the registration document there is a basis for using the space in which the economic operator is established. We are witnessing that an increased number of citizens' performances that point to problems that these citizens whose addresses are actually abused, they have problems with public enforcement and public enterprises and their addresses of housing have been used as fictitious business seats, so I find this proposed solution very important and correct, as I consider correct and that the procedure for deleting the registered address is urgent. In addition to these legislative solutions that the National Assembly and we as MPs make a full contribution to the development of the business environment in Serbia, I think is of particular importance also that the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Capital Market Strategy for the period from 2021 to 2026. Such a document was first brought to Serbia. What I am also particularly looking forward to and regarding companies is that Serbia will very quickly adopt a start-ap eco-system development strategy for the period from 2021 to 2026, which, among other things, should contribute to economic growth based on the knowledge economy, increasing exports and GDP growth. The start-ap are also business entities, whether they operate in the form of a company or operate as entrepreneurs and as such, given that they are mostly formed by young people who have a business idea, I think they are also an excellent tool in the fight against the gray economy, because they teach beginners in the business tax obligations and also tax reliefs that their country gives them. In this sense, it is very important that Serbia has made a great effort in the past few years to establish and strengthen scientific and technological parks and start-up centres, as institutions that facilitate the start-ups of the initial year of business. These two institutions, both scientific and technological parks and start-ups, are one mechanism of Serbia's struggle to catch up with the Fourth Industrial Revolution. This is an area where Serbia, in order to manage to wash out world flows, has to run a marathon, and with the sprint running from the very beginning and then moving on. However, I would point out that Serbia has been running a marathon in almost all fields since 2012. So today in Serbia and there is no news when a new factory is opened, today in Serbia is not news, nor when the total inflow of foreign investment in the period from January to October this year exceeded the amount of three billion and 140m euros, as Alexander Vukic and SNS seem to have gotten used to our citizens getting better in this area every year. Today in Serbia, with a responsible policy, we can tell the citizens of Serbia that we have energy stability and that there is no fear of the collection of energy in the world market. As for those who cannot get the support of Serbian citizens, who are seeking support for their fight from foreigners and who, by attacking Alexander Vukic, actually want to weaken Serbia, I say that Serbia has regained international reputation thanks to Alexander Vukic, that there is no politician in the recent Serbian history who has had more bilateral and multilateral contacts and meetings with all world leaders and that only a politician such a caliber can lead Serbia in these flows of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10499	Thank you. The word is from a colleague named Milos Bandur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10500	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to support the proposals of the four laws that are set before us today. I think it is particularly important that this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Business Society Act, is because the Action Plan of the Republic of Serbia for the period 2020-2023. The action plan to correct Serbia's position on the World Bank's ranking of business conditions provides for this law to be adopted, as well as the commitments we have made during the EU accession negotiations, because our legal regulations in this area now fully comply with European directives, or European legislation. I really believe that EU legislation is a very advanced legislation and that Serbia should comply with it in all areas of its internal legislation, no matter when we will, whether we join or do not join the EU at all. In particular, this law emphasises the protection of the rights of minority shareholders and their right to know at any time the amount of earnings in the profit structure, or the structure of what goes into profit or compensation to directors, executive directors and members of supervisory boards. It also introduces control of whether there is a personal interest in business, i.e. management of companies. Here you think of the personal interest of those who manage and make financial decisions, whether they may be in some conflict of interest, etc. So, in fact, this law encourages and contributes to a greater transparency in business and in general creates a more favourable environment that will in any case contribute to improving our position on the "During" business list. We know that during the period of SNS rule, i.e. since Aleksandar Vukic took responsibility for state-leading, Serbia has made significant progress on that list, which is why the inflow of foreign direct investment in Serbia has been so great and so significant in recent years. What I want to look at is something that is extremely current and that has completely shocked me, which is the reception of Dragan Gilas by the US administration, because I, watching this news on TV, have wondered – who is this man representing and who have they actually received? I understand that it is a parliamentary group, that is, a parliamentary club, however small it is, but these are legitimately elected representatives of a part of the citizens who think differently from the majority. However, it is an unparliamentary option, an option that does not have any political legitimacy at the moment, or any weight, and according to public opinion studies will not have any more significant weight in Serbia's political life, so I am surprised that people in the US administration have even spent time, or time on Dragan Gilas. He can be surprised, and he can talk about something that isn't so pleasant, because Dragan Gilas says they exchanged an opinion there on the state of Serbia. Given that Mr. Gabriel Escobar had a very negative attitude towards Serbia and Serbian nationalism in the 1990s and considered it a major problem in the Balkans, I can now assume that this exchange of views has been under way and I am deeply convinced that Dragan Gilas has been trying to be more Catholic than the Pope, i.e. he is filling Serbia and his own people with criticism than those with whom he went to the guests. This letter of seven congressmen, in fact Albanian and Bosniak lobbyists and the relying on Dragan Gilas's strength, actually speaks of a kind of national betrayal, namely the misery of a policy that relies on the enemies of the Serbian people's interest. These seven congressmen are not significant; they are people who do not have any political weight there, have no significant reputation. The congressman has a total of 435, so seven through 435 is a rather negligible number, unless it is a signal of some more serious pressure from the US administration compared to Serbia. You know, that joint statement and the finding that Serbia is a destabilising factor in the Balkans, so that is, what they say, to burst into torment. So in recent years, Serbia, particularly President Vukic, has been making such efforts to have good relations with all neighbouring countries, to solve all open issues. Serbia always responds to participation in dialogue with Pristina. Serbia has fulfilled everything the Brussels Agreement has asked of it. The other side has met nothing and now Serbia is a destabilising factor in the Balkans. Serbia that says -- yes, we recognise the Dayton Agreement, yes, what was signed in 1995 remains in force, we support it, we support that Republika Srpska remain within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Serbia is now destabilizing a factor in the Balkans, and it is not those who want to change the Dayton Agreement, to abolish the rights of Republika Srpska, that are not those who do not respect Resolution 1244, it is not those who recognise Kosovo's independence, which create the Kosovo Protection Corps and the Kosovo Army. No, Serbia is a destabilising factor in the Balkans. So, one lie that a man simply cannot swallow, and that agreement that Serbia needs to impose sanctions doesn't surprise me. It is not the first time in 30 years that DS leaders or at all people belonging to that political group are seeking sanctions against their own country in order to achieve their own political interests. The most insulting and painful statement on Serbs representing the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. The statement that Serbs in Kosovo represent criminals is so semitronic and sly that it simply cannot be measured. It's just that you tell someone what they like to hear so they can grow up in his eyes. You know, in this way, he is trying to delegate representatives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You know, if he's a criminal, then he doesn't have the legitimacy to represent the citizens. Then who did the Serbs in Kosovo vote for? So that's one so dirty and corrupt statement I really don't have a word for. I'd say they don't get me wrong, even if that's the case, and it's not, that's our internal thing, and we're supposed to do our own thing, not go to America and gossip about each other. In America or anywhere, no matter what country. A colleague, Bakarec, mentioned the Pionir City case in Belgrade, where he was the same Gilas while in power, simply saying by building a building for the living room of children and declaring social interest, built a 2,000-square-square-square-square-square facility that was his studio to record "Big Brother", through which he collected the first millions and a huge amount of money. He didn't pay the city anything. So, the facility was built in 2005, and the papers for its construction were only completed a year later, in 2006. Such a man thinks he can return to power in Belgrade and Serbia. I remember, I watched on the Internet a ton of footage, it's his voice, there's no speech, where he advises his friends from the DS board to make big money, so he says -- you know, make a company and make a chain, and at the end of that chain, he's necessarily got to be a budget or some big public company that's getting all this out of. That's how you make big money. As for his views on the seriousness of the plans in Belgrade's leadership, I will list the dispatch sent from the embassy on 19 March 2009, that is the discovery of WikiLeaks, where Gilas said his plan for Belgrade's development was more marketing than realistic. In confidence, he told American diplomats that it was a more marketing story than the plan was real. So all his plans and all his stories are just marketing and nothing else, it's long known. Now this is why, by my estimate, the Americans gave some meaning to Gilas and simply accepted him into the administration. I am sorry, but I see that our interests differ in this area, i.e. the interests of the Serbian people and the interests of some administration that led to aggression against Serbia and the SR Yugoslavia in 1999, and I think that administration is now renewing this political approach to resolving issues in the Balkans. No one responds to a single Serb people, a single Serbia, unity in Serbia. So, you need to have a whip in your shoe, you need to have another side that will learn and noise on a certain signal, go and shout, perform certain tasks, and thus make it difficult for the president who legitimately represents the country to solve the matter. So, in order to gain Kosovo's independence and to put pressure on Republika Srpska, there is a need to strengthen those forces gathered around Dragan Gilas, i.e. to spoil the national unity that exists at the moment. Imagine that freedom that Dragan Gilas made a public comment in the negative sense of US Ambassador Anthony Godfrey. He says -- he's been here for two years, and they're pulling him back, nothing from him, no pressure on Belgrade, etc. Wait, what do they want? If the American ambassador came here with a whip and used a whip, applied a whip to Serbia, to the government in Serbia, to make us behave the way they want us to? But he wants it, because he said it publicly right after he visited the United States. I would like to comment on what my colleague Aleksandar Markovic said, and that is something that is happening in Belgrade these days, it is the attempt of those who are probably well-paid or sponsored, and they may believe that they are actually getting money for some projects and that they are actually not doing it, but they really think that they are creating the impression that Serbia is protecting war criminals, that Serbia has not cleared up with some past and that it is an additional burden for Serbia to put on the shoulders. The mural dedicated to Ratko Mladić is, in fact, that's exactly it. Why right now, why is this moment and why is this mural bothering them? It is even weirder that all Serbian generals who participated in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, as members of the Yugoslav Army, are primarily referring to General Vladimir Lazarevic, but also others, by those circles mentioned in an extremely negative context, and say that, yes, those are convicted proven war criminals. Well, where have they been proven? In front of The Hague tribunal, which only tried Serbs and who in fact condemned only Serbs and freed everyone else. So, an attempt by the NGO sector and the opposition to now act on the issue of war crimes in Serbia and that Serbia is backward, that it has not cleared up with the story and the issue, is also something in other people's interests and in terms of pressure on KIM and Republika Srpska. Watch out, the Youth for Human Rights Initiative, on November 9th, tried to disrupt, or destroy, a mural dedicated to Ratko Mladic, and of course, that the police responded correctly, because it would cause it, and it caused a reaction from the other side, and then there were unnecessary conflicts of people on the street. Then, if you look at who the Youth for Human Rights Initiative is, you can see that it was founded in 2003, that it is based in Belgrade, Zagreb, Sarajevo, Pristina and Podgorica. Interestingly, there are only seats where the Serb people live or where they were expelled, and their mission is to deal with the past. If we're facing the past, let's all face it. Why don't the Croats face it? What are the members of this NGO doing in Zagreb? Why don't the Croatians face the past well that they've expelled 250,000 Serbs and killed 2,000 in that banishment action. Why don't Bosniaks in BiH face the past in terms of killing civilians in villages around Srebrenica? Why do Kosovo Albanians not face the past of banishing more than 150,000 Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. No, facing the past is for Serbs to admit they're guilty of everything, to give everyone what they want, well, then we can move on. It's interesting that in that protest, for example, some drug trade union and doctors took part. I don't know how union representatives in such a event, you know what unions do. If you're dealing with the rights of doctors and pharmacists, it's your place to talk to the directors of the clinic, the minister, and other people who deal with health issues, not to participate in the creation of a mural. The fact that DS and other parties took part in this, it's quite clear to me. Members of the BG Pride Team, of course, this team is funded from abroad, huge millions of donations arrive for the Pride, there are many well-oiled, and of course, they have an obligation to participate in such actions, but that does not mean that it is the whole gay community's position, or some other community in Serbia, on national policies and national issues. The movement of free citizens, women in black, the Fund for Humanitarian Law, what do you say? Known players who have been on the side of the opposite side of Serbia all the time. Unfortunately, mostly Serbs, live in Belgrade, but have always been hired by other people's interests. In the end, what surprised me is that there is a Marks21 Movement on the list, I guess, Marks in the 21st century, which says a working revolution in the Balkans should be carried out, that all countries should become socialist and create a Balkan Socialist Federation. Now, you see what political realists have been involved in this whole event. On the site of that Marks21 organization I found to say that the coronary virus may be a natural disaster, but it's more likely to be a disease of capitalism. When you read it and see that they participated in this, let's say, mutilation of Ratko Mladić's mural, then you see who and what it's about. Of course, I have never supported any abuse, let alone a war crime, and I think Ratko Mladic, popular in Serbia, regardless of the Hague verdicts, not because something happened in Srebrenica, because there was a war crime there, which I don't know whether he was responsible, or someone lower in the hierarchical chain, but because he was headed by the Republika Srpska Army, to defend the Serb people in BiH. That's why we Serbs love him, not because he killed someone, or formalally responsible for the crime committed against the Bosniaks. As I had nothing and never had anything against America, the American who was our ally in two world wars, the American who received poor people from like, Dalmatia, Herzegovina, throughout the 20th century, who stayed there, founded families, who received our people after the victory of communism in Yugoslavia in 1945, who settled in Chicago. In the history of our human relations, America was, in the most part, our supporter and our ally. It has changed its policy towards Serbia for the last 30 years, actually towards the Serbian people. We haven't changed, we haven't changed with America, we haven't changed with Britain and with everyone else, of course with China and Russia and the rest of them, we want equally good relations, but some of them have changed their relationship with us, and that's the problem. Geography hasn't changed, but geopoliticals in the Balkans seem to have changed, and then some countries have gained other borders, some entities have spread, some have decreased, and this has caused changes in US interests and attitudes. Let me just say, that video of the embassy now in Belgrade where they remind us of the history of our relations and of the connection between the United States and Serbia is something that is really nice, but that video can't overwrite its memory in the last 30 years, it can't overwrite the bombing of Republika Srpska in 1994, an aggression on SRJ in 1999. The fact that they didn't move their fingers when Kosovo extremists burned down Serbian villages in 2004 and expelled people from their homes. Recognising Kosovo's independence, not respecting Resolution 1244, is always staring at the unilateral moves of Albanians and really supporting both Bosniaks in BiH and Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija to kidnap some of our territory. Basically what we don't like is the American imperialism that this time and in this case points it against us, mixing into our inner affairs. Our sympathies remain with that America that until the 1990s was and what it seemed and the impression of it we gained through music and through movies and of course learning history both until the First and both World Wars and the Second World War. Thank you. Long live the president, Wolfie. Long live Serbia. Long live the Serbian world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10501	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10502	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to point out, at the very beginning, that, of course, in the voting day, we will support these legislative proposals, and I have to point out another very important thing, everything about the citizens of Serbia, but what is in the general interest and that one of the previous fellow MPs in their presentation has pointed out, an increasing transparency is an indication that the country wants to do as openly as possible, as well as that citizens can at any moment have insight into everything that is happening, but also that they have a more transparent situation about everything that they are indirectly or directly concerned. People say it's never too late for real people, but I still can't help but look back at the fact that we may have had to have these kind of suggestions in the period when those criminal privatisations took place during the year 2000 and late 2010, if we're going to call it that, but it's not too late in this way to look at things for the simple reason that maybe some things were pre-warned, some of the procedures might be predictable, but also maybe the money of the Serbian citizens was saved. When I talk about it, I think most of us here already know what it's about, and that's where we've had a period since 2012, when the representatives of the political elite, or the authorities, used their position and abused them in a way that has been mentioned here by various phantom firms. The elite who then decided, cheered and dressed in our country used the same companies that did not know the exact number of people who run and run them, and where the ownership structure was not known, where the ownership structure changed from month to month to month to cover a trail of what the people would say. Perhaps if we had started this whole procedure earlier in that period when it was the strongest and when it was happening in a brutal way, and yet I'm talking about these privatisations, maybe today we wouldn't have had such a situation that the people who ruled by 2012, from someone who barely made ends meet or had only 70,000 euros in savings became multimillionaires and the richest people in this part of Europe. It is also very important that everything that we have discussed today rather than just the letters on paper we are all about in concrete application and that these things that are better applied, for the simple reason that we have become accustomed to representatives of the former regime, which today are the strongest critics of everything that is being discussed in parliament or everything that is happening today in our country, and of the general interest and benefit of the Serbian citizens, do not come into a position that because of the enormous wealth they possess in various loans also the NGO sector, but also individual media. And when we talk about it we can't, without looking at a few examples that best depict it, and these are examples from the "Veritas paper" famous where it is clear that Dragan Gilas bought the Party of Greens first of all from his current official Freedom and Justice Party Dejan Bulatovic for 5,700,000 dinars. It was so much a loan. I will remind you only that Dragan Gilas at that time could not collect the signatures and form the Party of Freedom and Justice, but bought from Bulatovic his Green Party from this loan, to eventually change its name to the Party of Freedom and Justice. What is also interesting to the citizens of Serbia is the fact that this is the case. Dejan Čokic, an official from the Municipality of Mladenovac, who we talked about on several occasions here, who even has criminal charges, was also arrested for insistence, i.e. suspected actions in the municipality of Mladenovac, which was first noted and suggested by the Anti-Corruption and DRI Agency. His firm received a loan from Dragan Gilas of nearly three million dinars, while the famous Aleksandar Bjelic, who was told on several occasions by MPs here, was the man responsible for the "Bulevar of the King Alexander" affair, where six million euros were embezzled in the reconstruction, because the reconstruction was subscribed for that amount, from Dragan Gilas received as much as 36 million dinars in the name of the loan, which, of course, never returned or returned. In this way, you can see how the money that has been taken away from the citizens of Serbia that are now being used by trades and tendered tenders to create some kind of media space, media support or agitate people who will support you in one way or another. All of this is interesting to say for the simple reason that the best example, phantom companies, hiding behind which companies or offshore companies are Dragan Gilas. The best indicator of this, I'll just take a brief look at it, is the fact that 68 million dollars has been allocated to over 15 countries, to over 53 accounts, and that's just an indication that if you think of your own interest when you come to power, and not to the interest of Serbian citizens, you can easily convert the function and the chair as a source from which you're going to drink cold water, and in this case instead of cold water, you get drunk, God and dinar and dollars and euros. That's why we didn't get an answer today, and I hope soon, that from the failed entrepreneurs from the Czech Republic, the gum seller, the window washer, with a total savings of 70,000 euros, the wife's house and the used car "SAB" will come from 70,000 euros to only 22 million euros in real estate or to these 68 million dollars scattered around the world. Why are these issues important? They are crucial for the simple reason that these people still claim to return to power, because in this way they can only enable their firms to continue to be rich at the expense of citizens, but also because these people are now participating in one of the most dirty campaigns, not only against Alexander Vukic, but against their country, against Serbia. My colleagues talked about what was carried out in America. I think it's clear to all of us what Dragan Gilas' mission is. Unlike him, Alexander Vukic or anyone from the Serbian Progressive Party in front of people who are foreigners, if we define it that way, we never said a single ugly word about Dragan Gilas or anyone from our country, but I think the thing here is much bigger and more complex and it is very important for the citizens of Serbia. In recent weeks, we've also been aware of the enormous pressure on our country. Mr. Markovic defined it nicely. In Croatia there are even daily shows dealing with President Aleksandar Vukic and who, even here today, I think I saw that they published a picture of him and his mother and a picture of him and his father. I don't know why it matters, and what kind of analysis this is right now. Also, I can't imagine that in our country, shows are being made on a daily basis about Milanovic or anyone else who comes from their country. Considering everything that's been going on the last few days, I think yesterday's events are just the crown of that pressure, and so is this happening today. In fact, the mural to Ratko Mladic was only abused to put additional pressure on the state of Serbia and to put added pressure on President Aleksandar Vukic. Because of Serbian citizens, police did not guard the mural last night or yesterday, police only maintained public order and peace. Why? Because certain NGOs, and yet certainly agreed and conducted from one centre, surely again from the centre of Dragan Gilas wanted to exploit the situation yesterday and cause some chaos, so that Alexander Vukic would be falsely accused again and to make some new pressure on him. How is this all connected? By the way, that mural that the Partisans fans made has been standing in that place for over a year. Any one of them could have destroyed that mural at any time, day or night, or what they've accomplished today, stopped it. Obviously, it wasn't their goal, for the simple reason they wanted to cause some kind of conflict and incident. It's particularly interesting that they're trying to call all this some sort of spontaneous event. A certain Mrs. Aida Corovic arrived from Novi Pazar in Belgrade to throw eggs at the mural. You can't convince me anything is spontaneous if you sit down from Novi Pazar and come to Belgrade. It would have been spontaneous if she had passed by by accident, and she saw it that way at a moment of some emotional moment or effect she did. The second thing that tells us and clearly shows that there is no spontaneity and that the purpose was only to destabilise our country, is the fact that this lady became a member of the Democratic Party in 2013, and that she became a National MP in 2014 and performed that function until 2016. If you take into account that yesterday's support was joined by all those activists who think the worst and talk about our country and who, most often by foreign embassies, by other embassies across Belgrade, and most often as they say we have "we have the support of the West", all the worst talk about our country, then you know what time it is. I don't mind the activists, but the honest and realistic one, the honest one, but I can't remember, first of all, that the media who favored this yesterday and the previous days have responded to examples of when something was happening to our people and to the harm of Serbia. I remember well that in Vukovar, plates with a Cyrillic street name were broken, but none of the media had direct control of Dragan Gilas, not a single letter of it, nor did these NGOs condemn it. I don't remember anyone in Aida's town, in Novi Pazar fans at the football game of Novi Pazar and Partizan shouting out: "Kill, slaughter, that Serb doesn't exist", "Nase Oric, hero", and that famous, totally sick and bizarre one that they remained silent "Heart, kidney, lungs, lived yellow house." “ So none of these activists thought to condemn it or draw attention to such unacceptable and monstrous behavior. As far as we can remember, in Novi Pazar there is a board of Acif Efendia, for people who do not know that in 1941, which was literally hosted by the German occupation forces during World War II, which was then appointed as Chief of the New Market or as it was then called, which formed the board of directors of the city of Novi Pazar, which consisted of 11 members and all 11 were Albanians who wore uniforms with the sign of Albania and he is one of the people who advocated and at that time for the creation of a great Albania. Also, his police or as he wanted to define at the time, the military worked with the occupier and is directly responsible for the death of more than 7,000 Serbs, which is why he was convicted before the courts of Serbia, then Yugoslavia, and shot in 1945. With the arrival of two thousand years, the time comes when he is celebrated and now in Novi Pazar you have a board with his name and character, so I don't remember that this lady or any of the NGOs raised the question of whether such a board is necessary and necessary and whether it is in the spirit of reconciliation or better co-existence of all of us in our country. I don't remember any of these NGOs, particularly television and media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, writing one letter when Srecko Sofronijević was wounded in Kosovo and Metohija in that terrorist act. And where were these NGOs then, and where were these parties of Dragan Gilas? I'll remind you, I've followed it well, Dragan Gilas has not devoted a single letter to that situation all day, but in the evening he hung on Twitter a picture of him and his cats, it seems to me, and some puppies, had some scoffing comment on the contact of fellow MP Nebojja Bakarec. So, they ask for everything, at all times, they have an opinion on everything, but they have absolutely no interest in Serbia and the interest of our citizens. I am convinced that the stability and peace of our country will be preserved, first of all, because of the responsible policy of President Alexander Vukic and the people who care about it, but also cannot take away the thought that it is necessary for all people today who want to get their hands on the authorities and who, for that reason, not even to talk about the worst inventions and lies about their country, have to regain consciousness and become more committed to the programme and vision, to present some results they have achieved, but in this way of politics and action. To the very end, I think that the results of this government, the next policy of President Alexander Vukic, have been achieved, are visible to everyone and I am confident that from day to day, citizens will be increasingly secure that the next elections in April need to support SNS and Aleksandr Vukic's policies, because it alone guarantees that our country will remain independent, strong and stable, but that we will always fight for the interests of our citizens and our countries. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10503	Thank you. The next is MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10504	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will talk about the Law on Economic Society, which regulates the legal position of companies, especially their establishment, the management of status change, changes in legal form, termination and other issues related to their position, which also lays down entrepreneurs. This law creates a significantly more favourable business environment that is crucial for the development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia and business of business entities, as well as protection of the rights of minority societies, and in line with the measures set out in the Action Plan, that is to say, the improvement of the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's ranking list under the conditions of business "Doing Business", for the period 2020-2023. Amendments and additions to the laws concerning the provision of laws relating to the conclusion of transactions and actions in which there is a personal interest have been carried out. Introducing a company obligation to make available information to the shareholder in the amount and structure of the compensation and stimulation of the director, i.e. the Executive Director, as well as members of the Supervisory Board, if the management of the company is two-home. Also, by this law, adopted by the government on 19 June 2017, the position of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU in Chapter 6. - the rights of companies that have committed to taking over into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the legal assets of the EU in the area of corporate law with which domestic regulations in these areas were not harmonised. The identification of shareholders is a prerequisite for direct communication between shareholders and companies and therefore essential to facilitate the exercise of the right of shareholders. This is particularly important in cross-border situations and in the use of electronic means. This law contributes to a better business strategy, long-term business interests and sustainability of a company. This law is particularly important because of the problem of citizens with public enforcement, public utility companies, for the reason that housing addresses are registered as addresses of companies and entrepreneurs, where, according to this, judicial protection is imposed on non-governmental persons, bearing in mind that the registration procedure is based on the principle of formality. Today Serbia is no longer the appendix of Europe, today is the equal partner and pillar of stability in the region, sovereign, free, driven by the wise policy of Alexander Vukic, moving ahead unwaveringly. It is now not managed by machine brains headed by Dragan Gilas, the occupancy of manipulations and thugs whose goal and political programme is based on lies and empty promises, and all in order to raise money in their accounts, of course, on the coat of arms of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is strong only on words and firm only in magnificent fairies, and in no way in works, live blinded by hatred of Serbia's successes, not choosing the means to humiliate Serbia, angry and frustrated, because there is nothing left behind. They said they would destroy roads, destroy hospitals, melt monuments, such as tanks and factories at the time, because their plan and vision stand only for the defeat of Serbia, but for their officials, Marinik, Vuk, Lutovac, there are full registers, Porsches and expensive apartments, which will likely again be paid by humiliated citizens of Serbia. But in that account, they got a little carried away. They forgot that Serbia's leadership is now insurmountable to anyone who would sell Serbia for a handful of dollars, an unsuspecting and unwavering streptomycin for anyone who would pull the Serbian people back into the mud we used to be in. It is now against these proven thieves, Aleksandar Vukic, and they can only cry at the doors of foreign embassies and Albanian lobbyists and tycoons, insolently threatening children and Serbia, wishing for bloodshed on the street. These are all the signs of their infirmities. Today, Serbia is not shot by them, but by the will of Serbian citizens who have said in the elections – no, the mafia, but they have said – that, through roads, bridges, hospitals, subways and standards similar to man. This people have no intention of returning to the chains of the yellow tycoon octopus and, I will tell them that again, whenever necessary, they will not withdraw from the dark past, because the people know that Alexander Vukic is in front of him today. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10505	Thank you, Mr. Yevtovic. The next is MP Lav-Grigorija Pajkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10506	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable citizens of Serbia, dear fellow MPs, Minister Comic, we have before us today a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Business Society. This legislative proposal regulates the legal position of companies, in particular their establishment, management, status changes. Taking into account the subject matter of this law, these changes will contribute more clearly to a better business environment, as well as to the development of the Republic of Serbia's economy. However, there are those political factors that are doing everything today to ensure a company's dominant position on our market. It is a "Multigroup" whose interests are defended by all representatives of the opposition. Among them are the loudest Marinika Tepic, Dragan Dilas, but recently there is, according to opposition representatives, and future candidate for president, which is amazing given his CV, Mr. Zdravko Ponos. It's a man who at the same time defends the interests of the former tycoon regime, on the one hand, and Patrick Ho's money, on the other hand. In a system where Zdravko Poš became Chief of Staff, it was not necessary to have command experience, merits and the like, but it was two things that mattered to you, possibly to complete a short course in NATO or, more importantly, let's do it for you, but not so much, it is to be a friend of Boris Tadic. That if you wish to be quite well stationed in the military, but if you want high functions, high rank, then you must, for God's sake, be the family of Boris Tadic and receive the rank of the sister-in-law of Boris Tadic's sister-in-law. It's a very serious act and, after all, I believe that this act is more important to him than he was Chief of Staff. We need to understand them, because it is the manner of today's party, the People's Party Vuk Jeremic, because in the end, Vuk Jeremic ended up with Boris Tadic in the cabinet, but I returned to the topic. The pride is known for many infamous things, so he went to NATO to lobby to join the alliance beyond the will of the citizens. All of this should probably have affected that he was making even faster progress, because, as I said, sparrows on the branch know that he did not advance the military line, but politically. Also, as I said, it is known for other negative things, such as the fact that Kosovo Albanians declared unilateral independence, as well as Montenegro in its time. What did he do in that moment? Well, what he knows best. Nothing, he didn't do anything. It simply ran its course. Furthermore, the things he is still known for, according to this, is Serbia's disarmament. So, melting over 400 tanks of T-55, then rockets for the light transmission system PVO Arrow 2M, then destroying a number of assault weapons, even over 23,000 pieces. But, dear citizens, as I usually have a tradition, I realized, writing this speech, that I made one big mistake. Mr. Ponach actually thought of all of us and actually very well-armed us, considering that he melted those weapons into iron. That iron was sold to various companies, and today our citizens can buy pots, they can buy certain things, like office stuff and stuff. With that in mind, there are weapons all around us and the Pride has actually very armed us, and that's why I'm here today in the tide brought the PVO system of Arrows. Here's my stapler from the office. It's most likely from the companies that bought that iron, that's, say, the Arrow system. Then you have home most likely various locks, keys, keyholes of that kind of iron. This is possibly your T-55 battalion. The ammo was melting. The ammunition that used to defend Serbia today could possibly have been used up to that iron, which they bought from Ponos, to make ammunition for staples. So he didn't change much of the situation, he just replaced the type of ammunition. Given everything I've said, Serbian citizens are very well-armed, probably the entire T-55 battalions are in washing machines, refrigerators and other home machines. It is a proud start to transform the Serbian Army, as it likes to boast. The soldiers saw his process as such a loss that the Army is recovering today from the Mosquito. We lost the Corps, the people, the weapons were destroyed, the foreigners retired the officers, they entered inspections by barracks, they were abolished heroic 72nd and 63rd brigades, NATO aggression suddenly became NATO campaigns and so on, Koshar and Pashtrick were not allowed to be mentioned. That's the policy they left behind. Vuk Jeremic, Ponos, Tadic. Thanks to President Alexander Vukic's responsible policy, the military is successfully recovering from the pestilence times of Ponos and his associates. Today every soldier has a great uniform, new boots, everything they need. Compared to 2012, according to data from last year, the officer's salary increased by 42%, sub-offices 46%, soldiers 41%, while the average salary of military officials is 42% higher. Serbia today does not lead the People's Party's policy, to see how it will earn from iron melting, but to modernise our weapons. There's a huge difference today and 10 years ago. President Vukic provided helicopters, drones, PVO systems, armored combat vehicles, artillery missile systems, and the MIAs not to mention. So, for the end, dear citizens, let's follow the policy of President Alexander Vukic, not the policy of pestilence with the act of the sister-in-law of Boris Tadic, because if we follow the loss of politics, the policy of destroying our army, which, in my opinion, beside our sacred Orthodox church, one of the most important pillars of our country, and in order to avoid citizens one day not washing the laundry or eating out of the sherpas that have been melted by the MiGs and this weapon that we have today managed to acquire by the incredible work of President Vukic, we must all convey a message to everyone about what Ponoš and his crew did. Long live our glorious Serbian army. Long live President Vukic and lived Serbia. Just for a little while, I'd like to remind you that in 1945 some people were painting frescoes, but they were always able to come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10507	Thank you, Mr. Pike. The next is National MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10508	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Honored Minister Comic and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are today four laws on which my fellow Members and fellow Members, the MPs, have mostly said what can be said and what should be said. Let me say that all four laws still contribute to the overall economic development of our country and not only economic, as the minister said in the opening part, but also to the health and overall social development of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. They will contribute greatly to the overall modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. However, when it comes to our political opponents, they must indeed say, they have not kept up with Serbia's modernisation, but have done everything to destroy both economic progress and our country's industrial progress. They didn't do it when they were only in power, they're doing it today, they're sort of verbally pushing for it. I'll try, dear citizens, to show it to you specifically. Here, for example, the leader of the opposition, as he declares himself, Dragan Gilas daily boasts of the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So he boasted, quote, "I paid for the 4,000-euro hotel and I can pay 17,000 euros for a large villa at sea for one night and a 600-euro shoe and a 5,000-euro jacket," a daily informs us about it on 18.08.2020. As you can see, respected citizens, how much money he has, that's the 619 million he took as mayor and not only as mayor of Belgrade, but as director of the office while he was in his power. As mayor of Belgrade, Gilas was really stealing money. Here, I call him and let him sue me. He was stealing money from the parents of children, to whom today's government, the SNS, is paying back that money. In the last three years, the city of Belgrade has returned three and a half billion dinars to the parents of children that Gilas stole from who paid twice as expensive for kindergartens during 2008-2012 when Dragan Gilas was in power. That's the money. We have been returning three and a half years today for what our parents gave our children, etc. In Gilas' time, just to remind you, being in kindergarten cost 9,500 dinars, and today, 10 years later, it only costs 5,600. That's the money, so that's what we're talking about. You see, respected citizens, how he alienated our funds every day. The former US Ambassador to Belgrade, Cameroon Manter, witnessed that Dragan Gilas was not as mayor at all interested in the development of the city of Belgrade and the better life of Belgrade. Cameron Manter said on March 19th 2009, "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade was only marketing and not real," here you see the respected Belgraders as long as he held to the development of Belgrade, so he didn't care at all about the better life of Belgrade's Belgrade citizens or the development of Belgrade. Bahati Gilas of 619m euros swears not only President Aleksandar Vukic, but also most citizens of the Republic of Serbia by saying through his media on 14 August 2021 that all Serbian citizens who voted for Alexander Vukic are monkeys. Is it true, Mr. Gilas, that you said it or not? Dragan Gilas insults Alexander Vukic daily to the dictionaries of the most cruel, unequivocal, no coachman, let alone the leaders of a political party. So on May 5, 2020, he insulted President Vukic through his N1 television by calling him a lunatic. At the warning of Gilas's journalist to stop insulting the President of the Republic, Gilas said I would step up and repeat it three times: "Wolf, you're crazy". Can you respected citizens believe that this man pronounces it and that you can believe that he was once a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia and the mayor of Belgrade. Mr. Gilas, you probably said he was crazy, the president of the state, to Mr. Vukic because there are no 619m euros stolen from citizens of the Republic of Serbia like you, Mr. Gilas, or because Alexander Vukic has no money in 17 countries around the world and 56 destinations like you, Mr. Gilas. On November 17, 2020, Gilas re-enacted the President of the Republic through his media by stating, quote, that you should be as crazy as Alexander Vukic and transferring traffic to a temporary bus station, finished quote. Is that what you said, Mr. Gilas or not? Try to deny it. For you, Mr. Gilas, President Aleksandar Vukic is crazy because he is building Belgrade on water, the largest construction site and the most beautiful in this part of Europe. Here, dear citizens, to see how Dragan Gilas is doing, in a people called the Gilas Mafia. Gilas continues to insult President Aleksandar Vukic just because the president obtained vaccines in time. So Gilas said on 16 April 2020, quote – Vukic has mental problems. He's having some disturbances. Shame on you, Wolfie, you're a crazy man, a finished quote. Just because he got the vaccine in time to heal our citizens. Just five days before that, Gilas made a statement through his media without any reason, quoting – Vukiću, you are not normal, finished quote. So, respected citizens, all that's good for this country and what President Vukic and SNS have done, Dragan Gilas calls it the ugliest names. Then, on July 18, 2019, Gilas said, quote -- Serbia is a country where there is no freedom and democracy, finished quote. Can you believe that's what a man who was a longtime member of the DS says? This lie of his was answered by his colleague and our professor, Dr. Vesna Pesic, who is indeed my inexperience and great political opponent. She said, quote -- it's a shame you've been distracting the people for so many years, Mr. Gilas, and you haven't learned what democracy is. The boycott of the election you advocate is not democracy, nor is it politics, finished quote. That's what Vesna Pesic said, who is president of the political council and Vuk Jeremic. What to say about Jeremic, just to ask him in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Jeremic, what is he doing to you in the advisory body of the Centre for International Policy and Sustainable Development, Michelin Kalmi Ray, who has been fighting for decades for Kosovo's independence? This Swiss woman, led daily by Natasa Kandic to international meetings and represented her or not, as a representative of an honest Serbia. Here's to tell Wolf Jeremy if he's doing it. And he attacks Alexander Vukic for treason of the state. Well, it is Mr. Jeremic who has pleaded to advocate Kosovo's independence. Otherwise, Aljbin Kurti or Ilija Kurtovic, as you know, and Aljbin Kurti, two knees back, was a Serb. About that specifically, the second time. Jeremic, Siniša Kovacevic, called the "piscuture" of the daily insult of President Vukic. So on 13 November 2019, he said, quote – Vukić is a burek courier, finished quote, alluding to Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Mr. Kovacevic, what happened to Professor Kovacevic didn't happen to you. Shasser. Kovačević says that there is a traitor at the head of the state, a sold soul, a man who slaughtered cattle until yesterday. He told me about Alexander Wolfie. Mr. Kovacevic, you are the electric rabbit of Vuk Jeremic. Vukic struggles daily for KIM and the Republic of Serbia and has never said he will betray KIM. Your president, your party whose presidency you said in December 2008 in a conversation with US Congressman Theo Poo, I quote - the entry of KIM into the UN is the best thing Serbia should hope for, if lucky, for a quote. Here's Mr. Kovacevic, to see who's betraying vital national interests. As you can see, that's your Wolf Jeremy. Tadic has been constantly attacking the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. I guess he's hoping to return to the political scene. He said 14. 11. 2020: "The era of power of Alexander Vukic is filled with picturesque nonsense". Mr. Tadic, for you are hundreds of construction plants of stupidity? Mr. Tadic, for you are hundreds of built school rooms, health homes, cove of hospitals, picturesque nonsense? Mr. Tadic, for you, the picturesque nonsense is hundreds of miles of highways built and 311 bridges? Mr Tadic, you have advocated the independence of Kosovo and Metohija. For you KIM was long written off. For Tadic, modernising the Republic of Serbia is just nonsense. In the end, Mr. Tadic is 27. On 7 May 2006, in a conversation with US envoy Vizner, I quote that he "broken into himself and accepted the independence of Kosovo and Metohija". That's how he showed his relationship to KIM. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Zdravko Ponos also appears these days. I'll just take a few sentences, you know. As chief of staff, executed for Serbia's army, he was denied even by his own Boris Tadic, the president, who replaced him, and then he was drawn to Vuk Jeremic for money. Today, every member of Serbia's army is ashamed of shame when Serbia's military grade is given by Zdravko Ponos. As a general, he stood calm in front of NATO lieutenants while the brave Serb army extradited to The Hague. Speaking of The Hague tribunal, and regarding the attacks on Ratko Mladic's mural, let me say, here I am personally, and probably the largest number of citizens, we do not recognise The Hague tribunal. For me, The Hague tribunal is the largest monstrosity the international community has ever known. As you know, he was not elected by the UN authorities to choose him, the assembly, but chosen by the UN Security Council. And by law, I am not a lawyer, but, behold, Dr Martinovic is a lawyer and you respected citizens who are those professions, if you were founded by an authority that is not legitimate, all decisions that this body, at least so in the philosophy of law, I read that it is so, which they make and which will make in the future are void. Therefore, it is the answer for Ratko Mladic. Speaking of Ratko Mladic, here, I say Ratko Mladic is a Serbian hero. Allow me, while we're at his place, I'll return to Ponach, you're probably a respected citizen, at least part of it, heard about Christopher Black. He is a well-known lawyer for international criminal cases and has analysed Ratko Mladic's first-degree verdict. You know what he said? I quote: "It is not a verdict at all but a document that NATO is trying to humiliate Serbia and Serbs through its verdict. NATO is trying to strengthen its position in the Balkans and Serbs under its boot through The Hague tribunal," completed quote, 14. Seven. 2020. It's about Ratko Mladic. Since it is called by those who do not know what Srebrenica is and what genocide is in Srebrenica these days, I will once more in the last ten days, and in particular to Dragan Gilas, quote one sentence of Ratko Mladic and recommend that he put it in the living room and remind them constantly of this sentence, and it reads: "The limits are drawn and crossed and the country defends by all means. It is not a dead soldier who gives life for his country, but one who loses his eternal hearth," finished the quote. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Ratko Mladic has nothing to do with crimes. I'll tell you why, in my humble opinion, he ended up in The Hague. Because he humiliated the NATO army by not being one, not just a general, not one soldier or general from the old age until today. What did he do? When they bombed Republika Srpska, he tied NATO soldiers to bridges they bombed so they bombed their own troops. Today it's being studied around the world at military academys. I think that's why he ended up where he shouldn't have ended up. As for calling and calling him, and especially those who are not convicted, here, for the first time I'm going to say that he is really annoying, as a man and as an expert and as a patriot, when a journalist, I think that Congradin is called, he says, and also last night Aida Corovic, that Seselj is a convicted war criminal. You're rude, rude and rude. Find me that verdict where it says it. You have no idea, ma'am, about journalism. First code read the journalist and then speak. You know very well who's funding you and how he's funding you. Finally, while Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and one part of NGOs, on them I will especially next time, daily mud the state of Serbia, especially the President of the Republic, because it is a symbol of the construction and modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, every day mudring it, until our president raises the economic reputation of our country from day to day, leads the peace policy not only in the Balkans but also beyond, the economic progress policy of our country, the health policy of all our citizens, not only in Serbia but in the region, the policy of accelerated modernisation of Serbia, and as you know, the engine of Serbia's accelerated modernisation is our President Aleksandar Vukic, all due to the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10509	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The next is MP Mladen Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10510	I thank you, Chairman of the Fortress. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing very important laws, and I will put my accent on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Business Society Act. The amendments and additions to the laws focus on improving the protection of the rights of minority members of society, as well as compliance with the provisions of the EU directive. What are the objectives of amending and supplementing the law? Improving the protection of the rights of minority members of society, harmonising with the provisions of the EU Directive, the necessity of removing legal gaps and problems identified in the application of the law. What are the most important amendments to the law? The improvement of the protection of the rights of minority members of the company, as I said, has been carried out to amend and supplement the laws relating to the provision of laws relating to the conclusion of transactions and actions in which there is a personal interest, then the introduction of an obligation for the company to make available to the shareholder information on the amount and structure of the compensation and stimulation of the Director, i.e. the Executive Director and the Supervisory Board member, if the management of the company is, of course, a change of the authority responsible for the decision to issue shares until the amount of the approved capital, i.e. the exclusive jurisdiction is the Assembly of the Joint Undertaking, for the decision to issue approved actions so that the Assembly cannot transfer the powers to the Board of Directors, or cannot transfer actions to the Supervisory Board. Then, the second amendment is to comply with the provisions of the EU directive, i.e. the identification of shareholders is a prerequisite for direct communication between shareholders and companies and is therefore essential to facilitate the exercise of the rights of shareholders and to engage shareholders. In order to achieve that objective, a certain level of information on the identity of shareholders should be provided to the company. So, business name, home number, stockholder contact data, stockholder number, etc. Also, given that directors and members of the Supervisory Board contribute to the long-term success of the company, form and structure of their fees is particularly important. Thus, compensation policy should contribute to the business strategy, long-term interests and sustainability of a company and should not be fully or predominantly linked to short-term objectives. The need to remove legal gaps and problems identified in the application of the law, remove existing problems in practice in relation to the fictitious address of the headquarters of companies and entrepreneurs and the existence of so-called phantom companies, then introduce a commitment for companies and entrepreneurs to register as users of electronic administration services. Also, defining a non-financial role in society, which is very important in the case of buying a creditor as a legal person. There are precise cases in which the entrepreneur ceases to act by law enforcement, so-called. an emergency winding-up, a case of confiscation, suspension of authorisation, licences, approvals, consents prescribed by special law as a condition for registration, the case where a statutory verdict has established that the entrepreneur is not in the registered address of the seat, and the entrepreneur does not register a new address of his seat within 30 days of the jurisdiction of the court. The real growth of gross domestic product in our country in the second quarter of 2021 compared to the same period of the previous year was 13.7%, according to the sources of the Republic Statistics Institute of Serbia. I will single out only one sector, since I come from the Borski District, more specifically from the Municipality of Negotin, so I will look back at the mining sector, which my colleague from Bora Adriana Pupovac spoke about. In July this year, according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, industrial production was higher in the mining sector by 7.1%. The biggest impact on the growth of industrial production in July 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was the production of coke and petroleum products, the production of tobacco products, the production of other means of transport, the exploitation of metal ore and the production of machinery and equipment. I must point out that in the municipality of Negotin, in Prahovo, it is planned to build an international chemical park, which is expected to be of great interest to investors from both the European Union and China and India. The chemical industry in Prahovo was built in the municipality of Negotin in 1960 and Plan 2025, which we are conducting with President Aleksandar Vukic, will become the first international chemical industrial park in Serbia, according to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic in her exposé. In the past, the municipality of Negotin also adopted all decisions at the Assembly on changes and additions of detailed regulation plans, which concern areas where the Elixir Group performs works on the implementation of projects very important both for the municipality of Negotin and for the whole country. Currently, there are about a thousand employees in Elixir Prahovo, and the plan is to double that number, apartments will be built for the employees of Negotin, and most importantly, more than 70% of the factory's exports. Dear citizens, I will only give you one example in the end of only four economic indicators as it was in the time of the yellow tycoon octopus Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic, and my colleagues also mentioned Zdravko Ponos, former Tadic's man, and now I believe in small money, the man of Jeremic. I just want to compare their indicators to current indicators in the country. Capital investments in 2010 which were 3.1% in gross domestic product are now record 7.2%, with growth trend. The unemployment rate in 2012 was 24.9%, and today it is single-digit and is 9.6%. According to also the Republic Statistics Institute, from 2008 to 2012, at the time of their former regime, we lost over 400,000 jobs. Four hundred thousand jobs! The net inflow of foreign direct investment in 2012 was 453m euros, with over two billion euros already in the first ten months. Also, the fourth indicator I want to show you who they were, and who we are today, is that the average salary in 2012 was 360 euros, and by the end of 2021 it will be 618 euros, also with the trend of growth. Just based on these four indicators, we see who they were and how they were doing and how we are doing, headed by President Alexander Vukic. And that's what Serbian citizens see. I appeal and pray to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the very end, especially my generation, the younger generation, because it is up to us now, who have not been vaccinated to vaccinate and protect themselves primarily their health and health of their loved ones, and so we come to collective immunity and we all go to new victories together. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-10-0.u10511	I thank Mr. Boskovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint review of the proposals for acts referred to in points 3, 4, 10 and 11 of the agenda. We continue our work on Tuesday, November 16th, at 10:00 p.m. Thanks again.
