ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5905	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Dacic, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, you are facing three agreements today whose confirmation is extremely important for the further development of our economy and for strengthening bilateral relations with individual countries, signatories of these agreements. In front of you is a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on mutual recognition of the AEO Customs Administration Programme of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Credit Management Programme of the General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China. Therefore, this agreement should contribute to further strengthening and establishing closer economic relations between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Serbia. The aim of this agreement is to remove barriers to trade between the parties, improve the safety of goods without disrupting trade flows, and the achievement of those objectives should, of course, contribute to an even greater trade exchange between Serbia and China. You also have before you a proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement to encourage investments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America. An extremely, extremely important agreement, an agreement stemmed from the so-called A Washington deal signed by President Vukic with former US President Donald Trump. So, based on this agreement, what I want to tell you today and what I want to talk about, it's that we succeeded during yesterday to make a final deal with the American Development Agency, so with the DFC, about the first $400m guarantee scheme for Serbia's economy. If you remember last week, we, i.e. you voted two new guarantee schemes, i.e. an additional billion euros, on the existing guarantee schemes that the Republic of Serbia gives to businesses to mitigate the negative consequences of Kovida-19. I'm talking about another guarantee scheme here, based on this agreement with the U.S. government. So, $400 million guarantee scheme with the American Development Agency. We received confirmation during yesterday and we are expected to sign formal and agreement, end their agreement with business banks in the Republic of Serbia and in the next month, two days I expect that money to be available to domestic businesses and for loans, for liquidity, for innovation, for investment, for all that it needs to contribute to the even faster economic development of our country. Of course, there is not much to talk about how important this agreement is for us with the United States, because it gives one credibility, not only to the reforms that we are currently implementing, but to the responsible economic policy we have been leading for several years and, of course, the prospects of our economy's development. Just ask yourself if the American Development Agency would come to Serbia, whether it would also make US taxpayers' money available if it did not believe in our country and did not believe in the economic perspective of the Republic of Serbia. So, a very, very important agreement. Finally, before you there is the Act confirming Annex 1 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of the implementation of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia. Two projects here have been identified and most important. So these are projects to build subways in Belgrade, and this is a project related to the improvement of our country's electricity distribution system. What's important to you is that we adopt this week, the government will pass the subway law. This law will be in front of you in the next two weeks, before the MPs of the National Assembly. It's a special law that defines not only the process, the methodology, the procedure of building the subway, but also the system of control of the methroom when it's built, which is also a very important component. We're one step ahead of that law, one step closer and we're starting construction, that is, building the first line of subways we expect by the end of the year. Let me remind you, 1st line of 21.3 kilometers. As promised several times, the decades-old dream of citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade will begin to be fulfilled this year. With this law, with this agreement, since one part of the subway will be built by companies from France, we are going to build a subway by the end of 2021. This project, not only is it an important infrastructure project, not only to contribute to the development of our economy, to raising our GDP, to the employment of our workers, to our workforce, but it is ultimately the turn of the city of Belgrade, perhaps the only city in Europe with so many inhabitants, finally getting a metro to relax and facilitate traffic through our capital. So three very important agreements that are the fruit of long talks and negotiations with individual countries, but which are very important to us, and as so far I remain available to all of you for any question, if you have them, during this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5906	Thank you. The Board's reporters have a word. Alexandra, you as a reporter? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5907	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow Members, we have considered on the Finance Committee when we had this whole set of laws and these agreements and somewhere this comes as the crown of all these topics in terms of the economy, started with a rebalancing process, and then we have solved the problems we have had in the last 20 years when it comes to tax policy and insurance and the introduction of new laws relating to electronic invoices and now we have agreements relating to the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, the United States and the Republic of France. As you can see, we are today discussing, practically, agreements that have been created as a result of responsible leadership and foreign and internal policies in both the EU and the People's Republic of China. So both east and west, like the United States. So far, it has not happened, in the last really 30 years, that Serbia has had the opportunity to put into one session agreements that will, above all, come from strategic projects and when it comes to the co-operation of customs administrations, when it comes to the flow of goods and services between Chinese goods and Serbian goods and the co-operation of these two institutions. When we talk about strategic projects when it comes to economic development by U.S. investment, but we are also talking about a project that we have been talking about for 50 years, such as the Belgrade subway and we are talking about the support of France on this project through company co-operation. But you will notice in this project of change relating to the agreement itself, when it comes to co-operation not with Serbia's electricity, but with Serbia's Elektro-distributions, because we get fast tracks, where trains will go from 200 to 300km per hour, which simply, in this region, no other country will achieve. Taking into account the Belgrade-Budapest rapid track project and the new information we have and Brussels by Mr. Aleksandr Vukic that we will have the opening of a new Belgrade-Skoplje railway, then you really have Serbia's future that will completely change the country's economic activities, but it will change both the relationship and the east towards us. First of all, I think that the citizens of Serbia will benefit from all these agreements, from these strategic projects and ultimately, our children simply won't have to go to the EU countries to work anymore, but all these foreign companies will come here, create new jobs, new jobs, new jobs, raise wages and pensions, we simply stand side by side with all the developed economies of the East and West. That's why we think it's of great importance on the Finance Committee, that we've been considering these agreements, because it gives us one wind in the back to talk about the high growth rates that were projected by this budget for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5908	Thank you. We are now going to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. Muamer Zukorlic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5909	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are before us three important agreements, three, we can say, an agreement the country signes, or confirms with three, we can freely say, the world's forces. It is a rare opportunity when events like this happen at the same time, i.e. they sign these agreements, and this is actually one of the indicators that, despite the fact that this country has had three decades of bitterness behind it for its political and diplomatic life, and when you go through such violent waves and stormy seas, in a regional environment, but also on an international scale, then it is not easy to establish a real course, find yourself, overcome all the challenges and dangers of these tumultuous waves and continue on the right path. You know well, and you can hear it clearly in both political and intellectual discourses, every day of the last few years, in fact all these years somehow in these relationships with important international factors, most of them feel that they can be the ones who will plan the course of the state because those who may not have enough insight into international relations, those who may not know enough international relations, sometimes easily take their stand with regard to establishing and maintaining relations with individual, and especially the most important international factors. Very often they take it easy and promote those attitudes, even kind of cheerleading, as if we have a world football championship, so I like this team, and I don't like these things for some reason, so I'm against them. It can do so in football and in all other sports, it can do so in politics when it comes to those who are not on the front line of politics. The people in the fields, the cuts, the cafes, they can make their views what they want and they can support bonding with any country or they can oppose it, but we who are on the front line need to know that our word is no ordinary word, even when we think it is. Our word here in the National Assembly, and then all the other important factors that have the opportunity to appear publicly, above all in the media, are actually words that have a direction of movement, primarily towards our citizens where we shape their consciousness or influence the formation of their consciousness, and besides that those words go beyond those factors that, as you know and as you can see, here and through these agreements, they can be on our side, and they can also be against us. It's true, these aren't new topics. This isn't something where it's possible to say some papers, some geniuses, but it's definitely so important that we can't put them aside just because we've spent too much, just because they've been talked about too much. Yes, this country has decided to have a course of neutrality. Otherwise, from the point of view of justice and justice, from an ethical, human aspect is always neutrality or the center of something that is best, something that is best defended, something that is easiest to represent. Even strategically-tactically whenever you're in the middle you have the easiest or best chance to sometimes, if necessary, go to the right or left a little bit, from the middle it's the easiest thing for you. So, given these moments both ethically and pragmatically, Serbia has generally or generally taken a good course. However, this is politics, these are international relations, and despite the need to represent both ethical and human attitudes, certainly pragmatic, but in order to have a successful course in international relations, it is very important to have an exceptional sense of what they want, what they intend to do, what they want, what they want and what they will not do with these international factors, or above all, of this world international force. So, only then, if we establish a balance between these relations, that is, between those moments on the one hand, the interest of this country and the course it has generally chosen and which it generally promotes and represents, but it also needs to be extremely aware that you will ultimately lead to this sovereign or independent policy, so that you can ultimately represent your own interest and represent your own views, including your own principles. Then you can only do that if you are a world power or at least regional force to a certain extent. If you are not, and we are not, so this is an important country, a serious country, a big country in regional terms, but also a small country in international terms, which is why it is extremely important to establish its political and international course, but also to discuss exactly that concept, on the concept of balance between these aspirations that we have both essential interests and principles, but also all the aspirations that exist there. That is why I see this session as important, or this topic makes this session particularly important. I don't know if it's planned, I guess it's not. Simply in the frequency of preparing the activities that the National Assembly has, where we are, therefore, serviced by the government, I'm actually assuming these are routine activities, that these are the results of something that we've been doing for months or years. But actually, to sign at the same time, or to verify an agreement with the United States, with China and France actually shows that slowly this country is able to emerge from what I said is a burning sea which, you know, has brought us, what has survived for three decades. So, if you have the disolution of a country like Yugoslavia in all these stages that are now, thank God, behind us, with all wars, conflicts, turbulences, sanctions, with all these rips, I can freely say, within the state being, within all the relations in the country itself, and then all the fractures that have taken place on an international basis in relation to this country, so find the right way after that, and the right path is a stable path. What's the right way in international relations for a country? This is the path that the country will achieve the best possible environment for its security, or stability, above all. I mean overall stability, including economic stability, including all other aspects of security and stability, the preservation of my integrity, sovereignty. So security, or stability, is first and then a healthy environment for development, a healthy development environment. So these are two key moments, i.e. two specifics that clearly speak about whether the country has set a good course, or whether it has found its right path in international relations. Of course, when it comes to international relations, let me say, three key levels of building international relations. The first level is certainly regional, relations with neighbours, relations with countries and peoples around us here in the Balkans. We've talked about this many times, and that's every inspirational subject. He's actually the first level. It's not our discovery, it's not some kind of special lesson in building international relations. It's something we've all been raised on, it's something that's part of our culture and tradition, something that we used to listen to as children from our parents, grandparents and smart people growing up. So without a good neighbourly relationship, all other relationships will not produce the right results. That's what they confirm in a number of folk motifs, sayings. Among other things, one is said to be closer to your neighbor than your next brother. So it's the neighbor you're referring to. This is something that needs to actually gain continuity and an even stronger incentive in terms of the fundamentality of our international policy, particularly regional policy, i.e. further strengthening and improving relations with neighbours. True, we also have, in this respect, a good general attitude, good principle views, good country-level certifications, but what is missing is, and not only in this aspect of building international relations, or building neighbourly relations, but very often in some other topics, we are lacking that we have good harmony between what is generally declared state attitudes and what is being monitored in the first, second and third lines and policies and other public appearances and public discourses. We should, as a community, a whole community or a nation in the state, in a state-of-the-art sense that we play better, to be more aware that what the President of the Republic or the President of the Assembly or the Government is going to say or declare, is very important what we all say, what politicians, intellectuals of the first and second order say. Of course this does not mean that freedom of mind should be limited, freedom of opinion. We should also have gender attitudes, i.e. conversations and different attitudes and critical attitudes, both on the subject of international relations and on all other topics. But if we choose one course it would be good to at least have a majority attitude both at the political and intellectual level that will support that course and actually confirm that we are honest in this, because if we have this gap where we have certain attitudes at the highest state level, good attitudes, pacifist attitudes, developmental attitudes, which promote good regional, good international co-operation, if we have it, and then right behind that top of the state we have different attitudes that actually deny such a determination, believe it leaves an unserious impression, it leaves us to do it hypocritically, tactically, that we have someone who's in charge of cares for someone who's in charge of hitting and biting, etc. That's wrong. That's wrong, and here we can see it through the National Assembly, especially through certain competent bodies. We're getting permanent, which is what you've been informed of, certain reports by international institutions, European and some others, and then we're surprised and uncomfortable when we have certain, let's say, negative reports. I'm not going to say, of course, that those positions always make fair reports. We actually need to do everything we can to be, not say we're good enough to touch someone, we're supposed to be good for us, not for them. We need to show what is primarily based on our traditional humanity, to build an honest policy both towards the interior and the outside, to be consistent with what we declare in principle and what we follow in our daily political performances and interpretations, at least primarily, at least the majority. That if we do, believe me, we're going to reduce the space for certain wrestling, if I may say so, on an international basis against this country. So I think we need to increase seriousness here, strengthen professionalism, strengthen consistency, and believe that this way we will contribute much more to this country. I believe, I think for 30 years, it's been enough to empty all these nationalisms, all these frustrations, all of our dissatisfactions, all of what we may have been banned during the 20th century, especially in those times of one-mindedness to say, it's too many 30 years of that discharge. I think the time has come for us to simply draw the line to build a policy that will bite more, the one there said -- now we'll be even stronger on this side, believe it doesn't do any good. We should be, therefore, the way of construction, that is, the way of our affirmation argument against everyone who tries to provoke us, insult us, or whatever else they do negatively. Not to compete with them in who's going to be around more, because if we have a position that the country has already imposed itself with all these economic initiatives, with all these infrastructure investments, you see with here others that we're telling the activities, including the fight against the coves, the immunisation, the help of countries around us, the openness of the country, that foreign citizens are being vaccinated, you see how good the works are. Believe me, those good deeds were so powerful and strong, no matter what some even tried to do, they tried to belittle it, so I don't know that's honest, so it's not honest. It doesn't matter how who, it doesn't matter how the bad qualify. Good work is the strongest weapon, it's the strongest weapon in diplomacy. So there will always be those who will try to argue, but they will be very few. Second, there will be no effect on their disputing. So, for the good part, we have to win, as we've offered the vaccines, offer various forms of help, actually on that course the country should continue. Believe me, there are no enemies who will be able to obstruct it and stop it. After all, it is also founded in our sacred books, and in Christian tradition, and science, and in Islamic tradition of science, these ethnic principles are equal. So, for a bad return to the good one, the enemy will become your friend. It's a sacred declaration that can never be spent. She'll never spend her strength. In a moment, someone won't be grateful, but the depth of our heart, the power of our being, in that good part, will actually be confirmed by continuity. If we get angry immediately after that, because someone has not thanked us, that means that our good work is shallow. So that's the course I want to point out and who the Justice and Reconciliation Party is going to through its MPs, and through all its other activities to support that direction, and it's certainly the right path that will bring good to this country. With big, big forces, which would say, smart. Don't stand in the way, and when he's right, and when he's wrong, get out of his way. It's not a good idea for him to stand in front of the boot, a hundred times to have a pass championship, get out of the way, and we'll discuss later who was right. So it's the only way and I'm glad we can both go east and west, but I would still line up by power, by power, by influence. Let's go first the biggest tow truck, then the smaller one slowly. It's the right way, and it's the only smart thing that can bring us good effects. These agreements actually show that we're going that way, just keep grinding it, shade it smart, careful, correct, human, fair, neighbourly, brotherly. These are values that can never betray us and believe in that path, with that course we can certainly have a future that is better on the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5910	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5911	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers Mali, colleagues and fellow MPs, we are here today discussing the confirmation of three important and good agreements between Serbia and three major world powers of China, America and France. These agreements are important for Serbia's economic progress and modernisation, for easier and more efficient business operations, as regards customs, encouraging investment and co-operation in the area of implementing priority projects. When we talk about these types of Serbia's co-operation with big players on the world's political scene, it should certainly be pointed out that Serbia's strategic commitment is the European Union, but also good relations with both America and China, and Russia. This is the result of well-designed and well-led policies by President Aleksandr Vukic and the Serbian government, with the support of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is today a leader in the region by economy, investment and health crisis response caused by the pandemic of the virus, but is also a driver for the integration and co-operation of the countries of the region. This qualify our country as a serious partner and with EU countries, both east and west. The latest confirmation that the EU is seriously counting on Serbia two days ago a joint project was unveiled in Brussels to build a fast rail from Belgrade to Nis and from Nis to Northern Macedonia. For the project, Serbia should receive between 600m and 700m euros in grants from the EU. It's not just a railway, it's a possibility for more foreign direct investment and part of Serbia's ecological green agenda. All this says that our country is firmly on the track of European integration and bringing foreign policy into line with EU policy. This, however, does not interfere with cooperation with the People's Republic of China with which we have a comprehensive strategic partnership. In order to improve this partnership and future economic co-operation between the two countries, we are here today discussing an agreement signed by Serbia and China that will help simplify customs procedures, i.e. removing barriers to trade between us. Under the Agreement on the recognition of the programme of authorised operators for security and security, the company and China, and in Serbia that acquire this status, will enjoy simplified customs procedures in the review of documents, as well as priority when customs checks on goods when they export, products to another country. This programme aims to facilitate the customs clearance of enterprises considered to have a high level of respect for the law, credit status and security. The Chinese-Serbian agreement we are talking about today is the first document on the co-operation of this species, concluded between China and five other countries, 17 plus one, which are not EU members. This tells us about the relations and mutual trust of the two countries. I will now quote Ambassador China to Belgrade Cem Bo, who yesterday at a meeting of a parliamentary group of friendships here at the National Assembly's home said -- faced with an epidemic, China and Serbia's relations have endured a test and continue to develop successfully. China and Serbia's co-operation in the fight against the epidemic has become an international example of good co-operation. That the Chinese vaccine significantly contributes to the mass immunisation process in Serbia says that so far Serbia has imported three million “Sinofarm” vaccines that provide huge protection and assistance to our population in the fight against the Kovid pandemic – 19. Good relations between Serbia and China contribute to both economic recovery and other countries. I will also mention here several projects through which China and Serbia have made significant progress in economic relations and where China has proved to be a reliable partner who respects agreed deadlines and quality in performing the work. These are the construction of a fast-track Belgrade-Budapest, where China participates in the construction of a stock through Serbia, as well as the highway "Milos Velika" whose good share was built by Chinese companies currently engaged in the construction of the highway to Preljina to Požega. We who come from that part of western Serbia are particularly proud of the highway "Milos Veliki" which we travel quickly and safely from Belgrade to Cačka, and by the end of the year we will reach the highway through a very demanding section to Požega. If I am not mistaken, tomorrow it will be released in traffic and bypasses around Belgrade, and the construction of the Fruskogorski Corridor begins in early May. These are all projects that are implemented by Chinese companies. When I said that good relations between Serbia and China contribute to both economic recovery and other countries, I also meant Chinese companies in Smederev and Bor, which were Serbia's first and third largest exporters last year. Both companies have pledged to be fully committed to solving environmental problems in the two cities and environmental standards will have to be respected. Chinese companies will also be engaged in projects to build sewage infrastructure for wastewater treatment plants and sanitary dumps in 65 local self-government in Serbia. When we look at all this, we see that a large number of Chinese companies are engaged in Serbia, working with a large number of our companies, and we come to the conclusion of how important it is to adopt an Agreement on the Simplification of Customs Procedures, and I call on my colleagues to adopt this agreement. We have another important proposal here, and this is the bill to confirm the agreement to encourage investments between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the US government. The document came as a concreteisation of the Washington Agreement, and it allows for the provision of financial services in Serbia by the US DFC's international development financial corporation, which opened an office in Belgrade last year. It's the first DFC office on this side of the ocean. The agreement, we can say freely, is an important step in Serbia's and America's economic relations, as it allows for the provision of financial services in Serbia by one of the strongest international financial corporations. By adopting this agreement, DFC funds will serve as a guarantee for loans that Serbian businesses will take from business banks for the purpose of providing liquidity, crafts and new investments. The goal is to boost new investments, both foreign and domestic, which would allow new jobs, and thus also the development of the economy. It should be noted that Serbia is one of the first countries with which the DFC has concluded an Investment Encouraging Treaty and financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, with a view to making it easier to overcome the economic backdrops of Kovida 19. As we have heard, and this is also the available data, the DFC will have a billion dollar fund that will be available in the second half of this year and these funds will be able to use companies and business banks, and the aim is to implement support in co-operation with domestic commercial banks. The idea of a guarantee fund is good and is applied in many countries. The DFC provides an opportunity for a wide range of activities, such as support for the development of renewable energy sources, to study feasibility for different types of projects and to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It should be recalled here that the two largest investments foreseen by the Washington Agreement are highways and railways from Nis to Pristina, and we believe in the continuity of the US administration, regardless of the change in government in the meantime, because America is a serious country and therefore should not be questioned by these projects. In order for the Fund to function in Serbia and to make it easier to achieve the objectives set, the Assembly should ratify this agreement, which we hope to do in the day for the vote. The third agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and France on co-operation in the area of implementing priority projects in Serbia is also a confirmation of the friendship and good relations between the two countries. This agreement will allow the implementation of projects related to improving energy efficiency. Serbian citizens are also familiar and interested in this project, and we adopted the law here in the Assembly a few days ago. The project also envisions improving the power grid to allow better consumption management, as well as reducing power loss, which is a major problem. The agreement also refers to the start of building a metro in Belgrade, which will improve many areas, starting with traffic releases, easier and faster transport, to improving the environment in the capital. Also, the construction of the subways will allow new jobs, as well as the engagement of a number of companies, which will significantly contribute to the country's economic growth and will boost GDP growth. The value of this agreement is close to 600m euros, and most of the funds will be invested in building the first line of the subway, from Makish, across the city centre to Miriev. Both of these projects, as I said, are important for Serbia's economic progress and modernisation and will significantly raise the standard and make life easier for the citizens. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support both the previous two, and the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5912	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Kosanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5913	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Assembly, respected ministers with a co-worker from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are here today in this united debate of three draft laws, I would better say three agreements, the first between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, the second between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France and the third between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. At the very beginning, I will say that the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support all proposals from this united debate in the voting day, i.e. All agreements. At the very beginning, before I speak about the very proposals of the law, I have to look back on the fact that today we are witnessing that in Serbia, the opposition struggle for naked power has touched the bottom. When I say that, I keep in mind that Marinika Tepic, and when someone tells lies, I have to tell Mrs. Lies, at the expense of Dragan Markovic Palma, who is a man who is on the one hand a son, a husband, a father, but on the other hand a grandfather of five grandchildren, and for me, who I know well and for all those who know him well, a good man, for whom the family of holiness, has brought forth a series of the most ground-based lies that an ordinary man can't even imagine. I don't know how long we'll be ready as a society to tolerate that someone for cheap political points, that someone for political marketing is used by such brutal lies, and that they're not responsible for anything. On the other hand, the people of Jagodina, whom they stand for, have shown how much they believe in brutal lies. At the political rally, which had failedly organised in Jagodina, a group of their bots and literally eight Jagodins attended. So much for how many citizens trust them. Obviously, some quasi politicians definitely cannot understand that the people read them, that they understood their policy, which rests on the scale – the worse Serbia, the better for us. A unique Serbia led by Dragan Markovic, Palm, has over 100,000 members and we fully believe in the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the prosecution, because it is ultimately a prerequisite for the rule of law. We know that in this hunt on Dragan Markovic Palm, we will come out as winners, because truth and justice are on our side. I must say, speaking of this, that Serbia is a beautiful country, Serbia in all segments is taking big steps forward and we must not allow for cheap political points to make a country where innocence is proven and guilt on the other hand implies. I'm going back to the bill. First, the bill, first, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the co-operation of the two countries' customs administrations. Certainly, its implementation of co-operation between the two countries will raise to an even higher level. The agreement continues with the customs administrations of Serbia and China excellent co-operation that took place over the past few years through the Framework Protocol for Co-operation and Facilitation of Customs Procedures between China, Hungary, Serbian and Macedonian customs. The agreement was signed in Belgrade in 2014, within the framework of the China summit and the Central and Eastern European countries. The important thing for us is that China in principle supports the view that our southern province cannot be a member of the World Customs Organisation, as well as other international organisations. The relationship between the two countries is characterised by intensive political dialogue visited at the highest levels. Serbia, once again, attaches great importance to co-operation with the People's Republic of China and in 2016 we had our first visit to the Chinese president after 30 years. In the visit, the two countries raised their relations to the level of a comprehensive strategic partnership. To say that the volume of trade between the two countries in 2020 was about 3.2 billion euros, of course there is room for even greater co-operation. The two countries also make very good project co-operation in the area of infrastructure and energy. To say, some of the most significant projects are Pupin's Bridge, so Zemun-Borca, a share of Milos Veliki's Road, then a reconstruction of the Kostolac Termopower Plant, and some of the largest Chinese investors in Serbia are Zijdin's companies, which invested in RTB Bor in 2018, as well as the Hestil company, which launched the Jelizara Smederevo acquisition. I would also mention, when I talk about this, that the Chinese factory "Jang Feng" was opened in Kragujevac in 2019 to produce components for the interior of the car. When, on the other hand, it is about an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of implementation of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia, France confirms its interest in supporting priority strategic projects in Serbia and France is a very important partner for Serbia and its further development. This agreement is an important step towards further co-operation between the two countries that have a common history, friendship since World War I. So, with this agreement, most of the money will be set aside for the metro, and the second part for projects to improve energy efficiency. Both projects are of paramount importance to Serbia's economic progress. The building of the subway is also part of the plan the minister spoke of "Serbia 2025". Otherwise, Serbia and France's overall economic co-operation is seen as good, but certainly there is a huge potential for this co-operation to expand and to become much, much greater. French President Makron's visit to Serbia in 2019 was the first visit after 18 years of a French president, and the visit made a major contribution to intensifying and improving all segments of bilateral co-operation between the two countries. Over 25 agreements have been signed, which is very important, in Serbia today, ministers, if I am not mistaken, over 25 French companies and employ around 12,000 workers. Among other things, the French company also won a tender for the "Nikola Tesla" concession at the age of 25. At the very end, when it comes to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, this investment incentive agreement allows the American Development Bank to use the full range of its financial products in Serbia. So there is a great potential to help start new investment that opens up, which is very important, new jobs and support our country's economic development. But what to say, according to American law, every country has to sign an agreement like this so that the DFC Development Bank can offer a whole range of its financial products. Otherwise, the conclusion of this agreement is, in fact, the fulfillment of the Washington Agreement and the money in question will be made available to businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises for craft and investment. The intention is to keep credits for more than 10 years, which in the guarantee scheme currently in place is not the case. And finally, I would like to say once again that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all the drafts of the law or rather all the agreements in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5914	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5915	Thank you. Honorable ministers and fellow MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of three agreements, all three between Serbia and three of us more or less friendly countries. Why do I say more or less? Serbia has always been friends with everyone, not everyone has always been friendly to her, but today is not a topic. It's not alive since yesterday, it's important today, and it's important tomorrow, and because of tomorrow, these three agreements are more than significant. First because they deepen co-operation with countries that are important to us foreign policy partners. There is no dilemma that the National Assembly should confirm these agreements, and there is even less reason to say that the SPS MPs will certainly vote in the voting day, i.e. This afternoon. But let me look back on each of these agreements one and the other, because after me, my colleagues will talk more specifically about it. They're all important and somehow a man can't determine which one of them is priority, but come on, in the order they're proposed. Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual recognition of the AEO Customs Administration Programme of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Programme for the Credit Management Programme of the General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China. Professor Zarko Obradovic, as someone who has been working primarily parliamentaryly with the People's Republic of China for many years, will certainly talk about this agreement in more detail, certainly with more information and certainly with a more precise definition of its importance than I do, but I will still try to point out a few things. What I want first of all to point out is that we have ratified several dozen bilateral and multilateral agreements and co-operation agreements in different areas of society some eight months ago. The above all testifys about Serbia's dynamic foreign policy and international co-operation, which has continued to expand over the last eight, nine years, extends the circle of countries, but also the scope and aspects of international co-operation. Serbia is thanks to prosperous development, but also thanks to the active and intensive foreign policy led by the state leadership, and finally by the recent foreign minister and the president of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic. What are the visible results of this foreign policy is, above all, strengthening Serbia's international reputation and I simply wouldn't be myself if I didn't say that special importance to me had this diplomatic result called recognition so-called. the countries of Kosovo. Nineteen countries may have acted unrealisticly at the beginning, but that is a figure that has withdrawn its recognition decisions and is important for Serbia. Most of all, they are friendly countries, many of those from the time of the unclassified countries that we forgot consciously in some period after 2000. I will also take the opportunity to point out the importance of parliamentary diplomacy as an important form of foreign policy activity that primarily improves Serbia's bilateral and multilateral relations with other countries and to remind myself that I think perhaps for the first time in this session we have formed over 150 parliamentary groups of friendships, I am sure that I have precise information, with parliaments of other states and I think this is the first time the figure of this moment since we have this form of parliamentary diplomacy and since it came to life with us. Serbia's growing position on the international plan and its economic prosperity development certainly also boosts confidence in Serbia as a reliable and important investment partner. Hence, in the past, we have also had a large number of bilateral agreements and contracts that mean investment support for different projects. When it comes to the Agreement with the People's Republic of China, I cannot help but express my satisfaction with the further strong improvement of our friendly and state relations in the last few years, and the crown and friendly co-operation is the support and assistance we have received from the very beginning of the Kovid-19 pandemic, first through medical equipment, and now through vaccines, and it seems to me that after many years it finally confirms why cooperation with China is so important. Otherwise, the co-operation of our two countries is a continuation of the co-operation that the SFRY and the People's Republic of China have had since 2009, with which we have also an Agreement on the Strategic Partnership, which was raised at the level of a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2016. The proof of our strategic co-operation is also more visits at the highest state level realised in the last few years. I will consciously look back, perhaps a little to refer to this discussion by my colleague Kosanić, which is, you remember the period from the beginning of the 1990s or from the end of the 1990s when we were brutally criticised by those who promised Serbia a lot of improvements because of their co-operation with China, the most pleasant thing for me is that from this distance of 20 years, you realize that those who were most critical of their co-operation with China were somehow the first in line for the vaccine, which is good. With China, we have a large number of signed co-operation agreements in different areas, but I would especially single out co-operation on capital infrastructure projects such as Pupin's Bridge, a section of Milos Velika highway, reconstruction of the Kostolac thermal power plant, and simply not to list further what my colleagues said. The agreement with the People's Republic of China on the agenda primarily concerns cooperation in customs matters between the customs administrations of our two countries, more specifically between the Customs Administration and the General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China, and concerns specific programmes aimed at strengthening the security of the entire chain of trade and facilitating legitimate trade between the two countries, including customs reliefs. When it comes to this agreement, it is also important to point out that the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Serbia are members of the World Customs Organisation and that all issues of our customs co-operation are primarily in line with the standards of this world organisation. Another important agreement is an agreement to boost investments between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the US government and this is a new form of co-operation with the United States, with which Serbia has been having diplomatic relations for 140 years. And here we've had some kind of remarks on the subject of the Washington Agreement, conversations with the United States. It is so Serbian to be angry, but it is even more Serbian to be smart, and today we are at a stage where we have to be smart and talk about everything that is important for the improvement and for the better life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In two wars, we were on the same side. The 1990s and NATO bombings of Yugoslavia and Serbia have also seen the crisis. Diplomatic relations were restored in 2000, and we recently discussed this, in which way it was then brutally deceived by the public when it came to restoring diplomatic relations with America. We didn't have a renewal of diplomatic relations, we had obedients who had to implement what they got the money for. That's why I think we've made quality co-operation when it comes to diplomatic relations with the United States, but somehow, we've established later. The evidence of deepening economic co-operation is precisely this investment-enhancing agreement signed between the US government and the government of the Republic of Serbia. It will significantly improve economic and political relations in Serbia and the United States and should say that in the previous year, external trade was over 700m euros. Serbia and the United States' economic co-operation is increasingly important in the area of investment, so today the United States is one of the largest foreign investors in the Republic of Serbia, with the largest investment by certain companies such as Philip Morris and Coca-Cola. In the case of this agreement, it is important in part, i.e. it is also linked to it by the 2001 Investment Encouragement Agreement, which has been provided by the overseas private investment corporation, which is the legal predecessor of the US International Development Finance Corporation and which will in future assess in which countries it is appropriate to invest US companies and provide them with certain financial benefits through its services. The condition for this is the adoption of this agreement, which clearly shows our willingness and openness to attract private companies from the United States. This is a way to give new jobs and new jobs to our citizens. The third agreement, not least from this package, is in fact the Annex I of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of implementing priority projects in the Republic of Serbia. A roof agreement with the French government on co-operation in the area of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia concerns building subways in Belgrade. We ratified it in the National Assembly at the end of 2020, I think, in December. The value of this capital project was estimated at 4.4 billion euros, and the start of construction of the first subway line is expected at the end of this year, its completion by the end of 2028. The project was last discussed by engineer Milutin Mrkonjic and there is always nothing to add, today a younger colleague of Ugljesa Markovic will talk about it. I know how important it is for the engineer Milutin Mrkonjic when projects like this are coming to life, when projects like this start to work and when the timing is already being seen in which they will be completed. I remember the ambition of engineer Mrkonjic to enter a project like this himself, unfortunately in difficult times, times burdened and sanctioned, and economic crisis, but I also know that he is looking forward to today without any complexes that anyone else does. It is important that the project be revived, and he was alive then, and today he said that the metro is very important for the Belgrade-type metropolis. Once again, I will take the opportunity to highlight the importance of Serbia and France's eternal friendship that is not less important. Bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of France were established long ago in 1839 and the two countries are traditionally and historically close, friendly and record constant progress. Strengthening and constantly improving co-operation in all fields, as well as regular political dialogue. In Serbia, more than a hundred French companies employ more than 12,000 workers, more than half of them in the industry sector. There is a strategic partnership agreement between Serbia and France and over 80 co-operation agreements in many areas. So, estimating the importance of all three agreements for the economic and overall development of the Republic of Serbia, as I said and at the beginning of the parliamentary group, will support all three agreements in this search, and the details of their importance, certainly better than I, will speak after me in the follow-up of the plenary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5916	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5917	Thank you. It is appropriate that the people of the United States, visibly attached to the truth that the right of the people of all countries, small and large, to live their own lives and to choose their own governments, recalling that the principles Serbia fought knightly for and suffered the same ones that the United States advocated. On the occasion of this anniversary, I express my sympathies with this oppressed people in an adequate way. I am sure that justice for Serbia is at the very top of all the notions of justice, in the minds of every thinking and patriotically-oriented man in the United States. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, wrote these words by US President Woodrow Wilson in his address, or in a telegram sent to the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Serbia, Mr Nikola Pasic, on July 28th, and on that day, the White House dome was preceded by a Serbian flag. It has been vioric in honor of all victims of civil and military who endured Serbia in World War I and as a confirmation of the alliance and friendship of the Serbian and American people throughout history. It's the only flag that's ever been on the White House that's been highlighted in history without being American. After many years of alliances in the 1990s, our two countries have had a chill, and that is something that is known to everyone and that remains behind us. We weren't at the same wavelength in those times, as we say, we had conflicted interests, but like I said, we have to turn to the future because the past is something we can't come back to and we can never change. Our commitment, the commitment of this government and the president of the state is that hundreds of years after Serbia was respected and respected in the world and when it comes to its heroism and courage, we re-establish partnership with the United States. We believe that America is a country that is crucial to stability in these areas, on the economic side, that is very important for the development and progress of all countries in the region. That's why we take partnership with the United States seriously and responsibly. We respect everything we signed with them and what agreements were in some of the times behind us. Last year, we signed a Washington deal with the United States and opened a new chapter on relations with the United States. We were then able to make a originally unfavourable agreement for us with point 10 concerning the mutual recognition of Serbia and so on. Kosovo to throw out the cited point and place the accent on economic co-operation. We have managed to achieve a very important moment and put aside those things that have been the starting point between our country, which is Kosovo's recognition and to put the accent on economic co-operation. So it wasn't modified or modified at that point on the 10th, but it was absolutely thrown out of that agreement and we managed to put President Vukic's wise policy, then some other topics, life topics that are of interest to both our countries and the countries of the region on the agenda. We promoted our idea then, the idea of Mini Shengen, the idea of the president of the state. Part of the agreement is also today's topic, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia and the United States agreement on investment. This confirms our common desire to encourage business activities in Serbia and to achieve these objectives through the international development finance corporation DFC. This institution representing the state of America and which has a $60 billion budget for investments worldwide is a vital agency to support Serbia's economic and financial development in order to continue a good trend and achieve even better results in these times of crisis, when the whole world is affected by the Kovid 19 pandemic, I say, in order to achieve even better results that we don't miss anyway. We want even more economic growth, even more foreign investment, we want a living standard, a better standard of living for our population, we want an even better and more developed infrastructure, because this government and this state leadership are always harder to do better, and this Parliament is their sincere ally in this whole business. That is why this agreement is also important, ladies and gentlemen, because by adopting this law Serbia provides conditions for the start of the work of this institution in Serbia and thus specifically sends a message to all American businessmen that Serbia is suitable for investment. In this way, we will undoubtedly remain the leader in attracting foreign direct investment, as we were in years behind us. I remind you that last year in the crown of 2020, Serbia attracted as much as 3 billion euros in foreign direct investment and managed to bring in the world's largest companies operating in different areas and spheres. We are proud to cooperate with everyone, cultivate good relations with everyone, ensure peace, stability and strengthening our country. It certainly is not possible without such strong and significant world partners as the United States. An absolute picture of Serbia will change the construction of a fast track from Belgrade to Nis further to northern Macedonia, as well as the highway from Nis to Pristina, as we will thus link KIM to the rest of central Serbia. It is not possible to make progress and create a modern European state without the support and assistance of those countries that have throughout history been our sincere ally in the fight for European freedom, which is certainly France. France is one of those countries and the French people have shown many times throughout history that he is an honest friend of the Serbian people. Today, we show this friendship through cooperation on an economic and political basis. You are facing today the draft law on the agreement between our Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on those projects that can be called priority and strategic, such as capital and infrastructure projects and projects in the field of energy. These projects are of paramount importance to Serbia because it will lead to a sustainable improvement in the Serbian economy and facilitate the transfer of technology because we want to step up in each segment with the world. We will also contribute to the professional training of qualified and unqualified labour, because we want to learn from the best. It's no shame. It is perfectly normal that, as some countries come to Serbia and want to rewrite from us the model of immunisation that we have applied even though everyone is talking about it, so we want to apply those models that have given good results in those countries where they have been applied. We talked here and about the reorganisation of the EPS, and we've brought a whole series of energy laws, and with that in mind, this agreement is very important, because companies dealing with energy have a wide range of offers and can help Serbia develop smart technological solutions to energy security and efficiency. That is why it is important to visit the French delegation of businessmen last month towards Serbia, as France shows us that it wants to be a reliable partner for Serbia and to support the progress of our economy. Finally, when it comes to France and when it comes to our European path, we must certainly highlight the support Serbia has from French President Emmanuel Makron and that speaks of his good relations with President Vukic. Serbia is part of Europe, although we have not yet become a full member of the EU, and our history tells us about it, because, as we once defended medieval Christian Europe, until the Ottoman invasion, so in both world wars, we were the winners and on the eternal friendship with France we are reminded of both the names and streets of French giants by Serbia and the monument of French gratitude in Calemegdan. Serbia is co-operating with the West and Western countries, but it does not forget its eastern friends, i.e. Russia and China on the road. We are witnessing a growing presence, China in this space and investment primarily in infrastructure. Chinese companies will build a French corridor that will be built before the deadline. I would remind you that China's China-based company Tchaine Communication and Reconstruction is building a stake in the Požega Preljin highway, 39.9km long and 450m euros in value. It is an extremely difficult part of Milos Veliki highway, but extremely important, for the area from which I come, for the Zlatibor region, and for all municipalities and cities of the Goldibor region. The highways are the basis for economic progress and development, as without good travel infrastructure it is impossible to bring a foreign investor. By completing this section and continuing its arms towards Montenegro and Sarajevo, we will allow the entire Zlatibor area and the Raška area to be better connected with the rest of Serbia, Belgrade and our neighbouring countries. When the president of the state announces that he will open a factory in Priboj, know that it is for the reason that the highway will never be nearer to us and that the whole area is becoming interesting to invest. A few days ago, a piece of information came out that Priboj per capita last year attracted the largest number of capital investments, which is an amazing thing. Until just a few years ago, we were at the very beginning of Serbia when it comes to economic and economic parameters. Now this area, once called the appendix and the valley of hunger, becomes industrially and economically recognizable, and with greater existing potentials in the form of Zlatibor and Zlatar, Tara or Pribojska Banje, becomes one of the most beautiful and interesting parts of Serbia. You'll forgive me if I'm a little subjective, but for everyone, it's the end that comes from and the city that comes from the most beautiful in the world. We hear daily good news that something nice is done in Prijepolje, Ivanjica, Pazara, Novi Varosha. This is only one proof that the state encourages a balanced regional development of investment in all parts of our country. We must not forget two major Chinese investments in Smederjevska Jelizar and RTB Bor, from India and Hesteel Serbia Iron & Steel, have prevented thousands of employees of these two companies from losing their jobs and the risk of losing the entire space without any economic and industrial activity. Our state leadership always takes the opportunity to thank our Chinese friends for these two investments and that's really for a reason. And this today's agreement, the customs agreement with the People's Republic of China, is only a continuation and confirmation of our good relations and will contribute to improving the safety of goods, foreign signatories using relief customs controls and more favourable treatment regarding risk assessment and control. The bottom line is that achieving these objectives will contribute to the better business opportunities of both countries and remove barriers to trade between them. And when we talk about China, and when we mention the name Si Jinping or Chen Bo, the first association of all of us is probably gonna be a help, because we got from that many-human state at the time of the Kovid 19 crisis and all the medical aid we got from them, but we are witnessing that we also succeeded from the Chinese side of the company "Sinefarm" to provide a large amount of vaccine. Thanks, among other things, to these vaccines, Serbia is today a leader in Europe when it comes to immunisation, we have both Chinese, Russian and Western vaccines. When Serbia is compared to the times of the unclassified, i.e. when Yugoslavia was the headquarters of non-classified states, when it was an inevitable factor in international politics and economics certainly not to be exaggerated, because we have managed to preserve our independence and our neutrality and to again become a key partner in both the West and the East in these times. Small Serbia, which was not long ago marked genocide and criminal today, shows its humanity and humanity by not closing the door for anyone. We share and share and share with everyone what we have and are ready and to change and we want to show that this little Serbia is not what it has been thought and talked about in the last few decades. We are granted these results, indeed, by all foreign officials, statesmen of international world organisations. While the whole of Europe is choking on public debt, Serbia has a historic minimum unemployment rate, it keeps its public debt below the level of Mastricht measures to prevent the negative effects of the coronary virus at risk of our finances and protects our citizens and our economy. We have never higher issues, budget issues for infrastructure projects, budget reserves of more than 13 billion euros, and rightly we look forward to obtaining an investment credit rating. These are all the results of one serious government policy and the president of the state and something that confirms all relevant international organisations such as the IMF, the World Bank and the European Commission. Our successes are not only recognised by those who have made this state a state without perspective and who are fortunately so few that they cannot cross even censorship with their parties, let alone halt Serbia's further progress. They used us during their government's 80 percent public debt, double-digit inflation, double-digit unemployment, and they weren't able to complete 30-year-old projects, let alone start some new ones. They have also used us to defeating Kosovo, so much of our incompetence has paralysed us and convinced us that we have managed to experience our country as a paradigm of failure and that we really must really work hard and realize that sometimes we are first in something and that Serbia is sometimes the best in something. These results that we're recording for them today were thoughtbooks. They only have one problem. The problem is that no one trusts them anymore, the citizens of Serbia don't trust them, and their trust will never win again. For this reason, I am telling all these representatives of the former government and the former regime that we are not shallow minds and that all the lies they bring about daily will not be able to threaten and destabilise Serbia, because in this way they only show that they have personal interests in the first place. You'll never lose your answer. All those topics that we are talking about are important topics for the citizens of Serbia, and this shows the historical and responsible support that the Serbian Progressive Party has at the moment. Dear ladies and gentlemen, please make a proposal to the former regime, some policy, run for some program, because the ideology of hatred that you have for the Sprska Progressive Party, Alexander Vukic, will bring absolutely nothing to you. If you'd shown so much knowledge while you were in power as you now have an ex-post mind when you're criticizing everything, you probably wouldn't be in this position that you are in right now. If you have nothing else to tell us, to recommend, to offer us, explain to us how you managed to make millions of profits at a time when the state in billions of euros is a debt without an international reputation, why are you defending yourself by keeping quiet about the questions of journalists about accounts in countries around the world, and why are you constantly campaigning through your media, both against the president of the state and against all those who want to make something absolutely the opposite of what you've done? Then it bothers you in the end when someone mentions you in this tall house, because you probably think of yourself as some sacred cow that is protected and who can say anything to anyone, and they don't want to hear anything about themselves. I repeat, if you do not wish to justify yourself to us, you will have to submit and account to the state authorities for all of that unfortunate policy and for all of its results that you have achieved while you have been in power. I am convinced that the citizens of Serbia will show, indeed once again, that you are political history and past. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, I would like to invite you to support these agreements in the voting day, because they are in favour of the state of Serbia, just because they are in favour of the state of Serbia, that means that they are also in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and you are doing a good and useful thing if you support them, because, as John Kennedy said, "Don't ask what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country." Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5918	Thank you. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of registered speakers. The word has a folk letter from Prof. Dr. Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5919	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we have already had the opportunity to hear, today we have in a united debate a set of three laws concerning an agreement with three very important partners of the Republic of Serbia and all three agreements concern certain projects on the economic plan. Otherwise, confirming any agreement with different countries is evidence of the diplomatic prestige of a particular country and it is a very important step in opening the country to all partners, but when agreements with concrete projects, or plans, it has an even stronger strength and weight. The law confirming the Agreement between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Serbia, in fact, is about improving the customs administrations of the two countries that will lead to an even better trade between the two countries, although it is also very good for now, since only in the past year the exchange of goods between the two countries was over three billion dollars. China is a partner of the Republic of Serbia and there are two sectors in which China is actively investing, which is a question of capital projects in the area of travel, i.e. transport infrastructure and another area is a question, i.e. the energy sector. Several thousand companies of the People's Republic of China in the field of energy actually operate in the territory of the Republic itself. It is therefore very important that this Agreement be supported, that this good and commercial and any other co-operation continue. The second agreement concerns confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of France and the Republic of Serbia on priority projects and this concerns two very important projects. The first project is building a subway, a project of capital importance, so national importance for the whole country, and not just for the capital. The second project is from the field of energy efficiency. Since the legal basis has been acquired for further promotion and active action in this area, it is very important to have a question of energy efficiency and energy renewables in terms of the very dynamics of development in the entire country, and we have seen that the government provides for equal representation of both urban and rural parts, i.e. parts of the country which are significantly more neglected. The issue of energy efficiency and energy renewable sources is very important from the aspect of ecology, environmental conservation and everything we have had the opportunity to talk about in previous discussions, as regards the laws themselves in the field of energy. The third agreement concerns the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the US government, also with regard to investment priorities or investment in the Republic of Serbia. The United States is a very important partner for every country, hence the Republic of Serbia as well as for the realisation of economic projects, but also for foreign policy co-operation, so we can all say that it is three very important agreements. As for the agreement concerning co-operation with the People's Republic of China, therefore, it only confirms the good co-operation that has been achieved so far and we have just spoken in which sectors it is most visible. It is also a significant help that has been sent by the People's Republic of China to Serbia during the current pandemic, but during the pandemic, it has been seen that Serbia has many other friends and that the people who have friends from all sides actually see who are the witnesses of friends in certain difficulties or uninvited situations. We could see this in particular by the activities that she took, let's say, our diaspora from all over the world that came to help both money and medical means, etc. Further implementation of this Agreement will, in fact, mean, in terms of capital investment and transport infrastructure, also a balanced regional development with regard to the development of all parts of our country, especially parts that have been neglected for years, and we can say for decades. The route of the highway that will pass one part and through Sandzak will mean a great deal for the economic and any other recovery of this country. So, as has already been announced, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will be voting day, i.e. today to support this set of laws of great importance regarding co-operation with these three very important countries as partners. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5920	The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5921	Thank you. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have heard that today we are discussing the confirmation of three agreements concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the Government of the People's Republic of China, the Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic of France. In my presentation, I will look back at each of them in the order in which they are on our agenda today. By narrowing down the results of co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, we can indeed say that Serbia has singled out in relation to other Western Balkan countries when it comes to both economic and political co-operation with this Asian state. I can say that the historic peak in Chinese-Serbian relations was achieved in 2016, by signing a comprehensive strategic partnership as the highest level of partnership that can be concluded by any state with the People's Republic of China and it is essentially an agreement with the greatest symbolic meaning for China and its superior goal is to make co-operation comprehensive, which in the case of our country indeed seems to be. What makes Serbia unique to the rest of the region is the fact that it was most often the first state to take certain steps, which at the same time would be a turning point in relations with China. Here I think of the first Confucius Institute as the head of an institution for the promotion of Chinese culture, which opened in Serbia in 2006. Then, in 2017, Serbia and China abolished visas for their citizens. Furthermore, the Chinese Cultural Centre, which is planned to be the largest in Europe, is currently under construction and will be in Belgrade. Not only in this respect, but in terms of business co-operation, our relationship is indeed greatly improved. Here I think of Smederjevska Železara, a tire factory in Zrenjanin, a strategic partnership in RTB "Bor" and ultimately at the "Shinj" factory in Nis, whose opening is expected for the next days. Similar to business co-operation is trade between this country and it has shown an upcoming trend over the last 10 years. According to the latest data from the Office of Statistics of the Republic of Serbia, the value of trade in goods between the two countries has passed three billion dollars. China is indeed Serbia's third largest trading partner, and we must also not forget its role in the pandemic itself, that is, the fight against the virus and its importance in terms of vaccines that we have obtained, their unselfish help. These vaccines have now reached the number of three million and this really means a lot to our citizens and shows the country's clear attitude towards the Republic of Serbia. As for the agreement with America, it refers to encouraging investments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States and is an deepening of the already existing co-operation that exists between these two countries and in political and economic terms. The co-operation now results in the opening of the US International Development Corporation Office in Belgrade with the aim of encouraging and supporting economic development and investment. The arrival of such an important financial company is so much greater, i.e. its significance is so much greater because it will put Serbia on the list of desirable investment destinations, and if we add this to the fact that this is the only office of this type outside America at the level of the Western Balkans, then we understand what its goal is, or we understand that the benefits from its opening will be more than good. The international development of the financial corporation now has a total credit capacity of $60 billion and it may, to the greatest extent, help small and medium-sized enterprises work, which means that it will allow them better access to financing, or cheaper loans under more acceptable conditions, which will greatly boost their growth and development, and small and medium-sized enterprises as pillars of each, and our businesses deserve one such incentive and one such measure to facilitate their business. Without a doubt, the opening of such an office will trigger a major investment castle in Serbia, but also in the region, if we consider the potentials Serbia has in regional terms when we talk about its exports. Finally, bilateral relations between Serbia and France under the agreement we are discussing today are also traditional, but also historical and very close and very connected and record constant progress. Perhaps a turning point in such a relationship was the visit of French President Makron in 2019, after 18 years of the last visit by a French President to Serbia. It is the impression that this visit has intensified co-operation in almost all areas, and cultures, and sports, and energy, and in this sense the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France relates to the area of implementation of priority strategic projects in the area of infrastructure, energy, industry, technology and, above all, to the modernisation of the electricity network and the start of building a Belgrade subway, i.e. the long-awaited Belgrade subway. I remind you that this is not an isolated case of support from our country by the Republic of France, so with the support of France, Serbia has managed to launch works at the Belgrade airport, and there is also a project to resolve the deposit in Vinci. At the moment, French companies are working very successfully in Serbia, currently hiring about 12,000 people, more than half of which are in the industrial sector. For all the above, believing that the government of Serbia's efforts are indeed in the direction of creating a favourable business environment and providing conditions for the conclusion of all three agreements, the SDPS will support the proposals of all three agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5922	National MP Slavenko Unkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5923	Thank you. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, allow me to come out of today's topic with a few sentences, by giving full support to President JS Dragan Markovic Palmi, in order to unwind all the lies and false accusations we have heard for the past seven days and that this political and marketing performance of a part of the opposition gets a judicial epilogue. In a situation where knowledge of the possible execution of a criminal offence for which the general public is interested, the Republic Public Prosecutor, in accordance with Article 68, is obliged to get to know the public with the measures taken by the competent state authorities. This means that the Republic Prosecutor must answer whether any damaged person or more persons has been identified and their initials have been listed so far. Otherwise, if operational knowledge indicates that there are no damaged persons, and we know that there are no such persons, as it has been claimed, nor any criminal and legal action taken, then the public must know that the measures are taken against those persons, which such information has been published. The person, in this case, Marinika Tepic, who stated that a person committed a crime, knowing that such a crime did not take place, himself commits the crime of false application under Article 334. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. If, on the other hand, he knows the identity of those victims, and he does not want to identify them, then he commits a criminal act of concealing a crime under Article 332 of the same law. So, as Dragan Markovic Palma stated in his address to the public, someone in a particular case must bear criminal and legal responsibility, either Palm or Marinika Tepic. When it comes to today's agenda agreements, they are, of course, in the interest of our country and the JS parliamentary group will support these agreements in the voting day. The co-operation agreement on the implementation of priority infrastructure projects in Serbia is an important step in Serbia's and France's economic and political relations. The value of the deal is 580m euros, aimed at improving the efficiency of the power grid, building the first subway line in Belgrade. The start of works on the first subway line, which will be invested around 454m euros, is expected at the end of this year. Two French and one Chinese companies will participate in the construction. The financial support consists of a direct loan from the French vault and bank loans guaranteed by the Government of France. The construction of a Belgrade subway shows the strength of one state, one work, and in some ways it is a matter of prestige, and thus the modernisation of Serbia as a whole. With around 127m euros, the EPS's electricity distribution network will be credited. Co-operation with the French, Serbia's Elektroprivreda will automate a medium-voltage distribution network. This will ensure reliable supply, quality of electricity, remote network management and faster localisation of faults. Automation allows for the reduction of losses, the integration of renewable energy sources, as well as better use of the distribution network and existing production resources. Construction of the most modern trafo stations in large cities is scheduled. According to some estimates, Serbia loses about 250m euros annually to technical and non-technical losses on the network. France supports Serbia in European integration, and it believes in Serbia's economic and economic future. The economic relationship between Serbia and France can certainly be better, and that is, of course, our goal. Serbia's agreement with the United States is an interstate agreement to boost investment and it is a prerequisite for the start of the US international development corporation DFC in Serbia. Although there was speculation that the DFC office would be closed by the arrival of a new US administration, the interest of America is, however, to be present in the Balkans and in some way to compete with Russian and Chinese investments. The DFC has a $60 billion investment fund and is designed as a pandemic for the Chinese initiative "The Belt and the Road". The goal is for these new instruments, which have DFCs, to have new investments in Serbia, not only foreign ones, but also domestic Serb companies' investments. The DFC office in Belgrade is the first headquarters of the organisation in Europe, and it is clear that it will not give up its obligations under the Washington Agreement. The most important reason for such an agreement is the high confidence the US administration has in the economic reforms Serbia is implementing, as well as the importance of an agreement to implement a guarantee scheme that will be implemented in Serbia in co-operation with the DFC and commercial banks. The goal is to make that money available to our businesses, business banks, businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises by the end of the second quarter. According to all US officials, Serbia has full support on the path of European integration, as well as support for being an economic leader in the Balkans. The agreement between Serbia and the People's Republic of China on the Customs Administration Security and Security Programme, known as the AEO Programme and the Credit Management Programme, is a confirmation of the exceptional co-operation of the customs administrations of the two countries. The aim of this agreement is to provide better business opportunities, to improve the safety of goods transport, as well as to remove barriers to international trade. Under the agreement, companies that acquire AEO status in the two countries will enjoy a simplified customs procedure, such as a simpler review of goods and customs duties as a priority. The AEO programme, launched by the World Customs Organisation, aims to facilitate the customs clearance of enterprises considered to have a high level of respect for the laws of credit status and security. That means our companies with AEO status will have simpler procedures for all customs protocols. China has been strengthening its presence in the Western Balkans region in recent years, and Serbia certainly has one of the most intense co-operation with China in our entire region. To repeat, the parliamentary group will support these aforementioned agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5924	The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5925	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, respected and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will talk about the proposal for a law confirming Annex 1 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of implementation of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia. Belgrade has been a metropolis with over 1.5 million inhabitants, a city that has been an imperative of many conquerors through its history, violently destroyed many times, but still stands at the mouth of two Sava and Danube rivers. For Belgrade, the fact that it is a city that never sleeps, known for its history and tradition, followed by architecture, a city that accepts everything with open arms. It is also made up of beautiful people who have come from all sides, but also the way Belgrade lives has become involved in their existence and their being. Expansively, Belgrade changed its physionomy, adapted, trying to retain both its soul and its style. Unfortunately, one city like this doesn't have a subway today. This fact affects the existing, but certainly, will have an ever-increasing impact on the future functionality and quality of life in it. The first idea of building a subway was almost 100 years ago. There were then people who recognized Belgrade's need for an idea solution like this. The last mayor to approach this problem strategically was Branko Pesic, a man who left a huge and indelible trail and thanks to whom we can be proud today of everything that was done then. Thanks to him, Belgrade has received sports facilities in every municipality. A highway has been built through the city, Mostar's loop, Belgrade's and the Terrasian tunnel and many other facilities that today grace Belgrade. This generation has defined that it should be a city of services, such as, after all, all the world's metropolis and a development programme has been created. The condition is just the connection of the city to the world. This involves all kinds of communication, from travel to telecommunications. But it seems that the metro building project was always lacking either the political will or the money or both. The agreement concluded in November 2020 gives hope that the construction of the subway will become public. This project is of capital importance to our country. It cannot be completed without the support of the government of the Republic of Serbia. He looks forward to the fact that these conditions have finally come true. It will benefit not only its inhabitants, but the entire economy. It will bring new technologies and affect the employment of highly qualified experts. The very investment for the first two lines is 4.4 billion euros, which will have a positive impact on both employment and our GDP. The start of building a subway, announced for November this year, gives us hope that we are starting to solve a very big and important problem for our capital. Realisation of such a large infrastructure project cannot be expected quickly, but the overall consensus and determination in implementing this decision will certainly have its benefits in the future. I believe there's a moment in which there's political will, as well as the resources that are partly for technology being provided by our French friends, but as far as I understand from our Chinese friends, who will together be the bearers of the construction and equipment of the subway itself. We just can't lose one very important thing out of sight. It looks forward to the fact that our partners have announced that they will insist that construction be engaged and domestic companies at work and that our engineers will be involved. This is particularly important for two reasons, the first is, however, on a long stick and it is too soon, of course, to talk about it at this point, but it is very important for thinking, and it is about that the metro is a living thing and it will develop as the city develops in the further perspective. Also, there may be a similar project being built in the region, and I think we could have a comparative advantage in doing so for both our companies and our people to participate in some part of the whole process. The second is that we will need both knowledge and skills, so that we can maintain the metro ourselves and everything that is related to it. Many of the benefits since the completion of this capital project, such as higher values of real estate, greater attractiveness of the city, creating better infrastructure, greater functionality, efficiency and faster flow of people. I want to believe that the moment has come and I can hope that in 2028 we will have the opportunity to drive on the first line of the subway that will be one of the new symbols of our capital. The SPS parliamentary group will today support the adoption of this agreement, as well as the other two agreements on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5926	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these three agreements are with three permanent members of the Security Council. This is proof that this country rose from the ashes and dust that we were pushed into by the former authorities by 2012 and these agreements guarantee economic development. There's a Chinese saying - when you give a man a fish you feed him in one day, and when you teach him how to fish, you feed him for life. He says when you give a man a fish, you feed him in one day, and when you teach him how to fish, you feed him for life. We received from the Chinese and the other, many times they helped us, and if they had not charged us in any way and, secondly, taught us how to be patient, how to work, how to build, how to build, how to build, and how to be committed. China is, in my opinion, the world's first industrial force and should be respected. I found out seven years ago. My first foreign guests in the National Assembly were Chinese business delegations, composed of 15 representatives of Chinese companies. At that point, I didn't know how important it was and how important China's economic activity in Serbia will be and how much it will mean to Serbia. Just to remind us that they took over the problems called "Sartid", they took over the problems they called "Bor", which were companies that hung out on the Republic of Serbia's budget and which made astronomical losses. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is very important for export as well. All foreign investors, whether they come from America, whether they come from France, whether they come from China, usually they open a company here first. These are domestic companies where foreigners are members of society, they are founders of domestic companies. For the sake of our citizens, because of those opposition unfortunates that foreign investors represent as some slaves who came here, etc., we should know that there is no difference, let's say, between MK Komerca, founded by a foreign company, it seems to me, somewhere in Liechtenstein or something or Delte, an initial company in Cyprus, which founded all of their other domestic companies here. So, they start a company here, and only capital comes from abroad and it should be appreciated. Especially should they be appreciated because, whether they come from China, from France, whether they come from Russia, whether they come from Germany, and interestingly this Great Britain, because there is no agreement, would have a fourth member of the Security Council, Russia is the fifth and we have exceptional co-operation with them... However, I do not worry too much about the United Kingdom, and agreements with the UK have usually been with Serbia, which has led us to the communism of the former Yugoslavia, etc. and numerous problems, as they mainly decided what would happen on this territory, on the Balkan territory. When two fish fight at the bottom of the ocean, that's a saying, they say, there must be a British or English man behind a nearby stone. So the foreign investors who invest here mostly bring us a piece of the market. Unlike domestic investors, we have safe placement and safe exports, which affects the reduction of the trade deficit and, just to remind you that last year or before last, for the first time with the Croats we had a surplus, it seems to me that we have a surplus with the Italians, with Germany we are very close, because these foreign investors, as we popularly call them, brought them when they raise production in Serbia and a piece of their market on which the goods will be sold and thus increased our foreign currency inflow and solved many problems with that money. Small countries, such as Serbia, only by offensive exports can provide higher salaries, higher pensions, can provide stability in their country, because when they sell these goods abroad they can meet the needs of public spending, even to obtain arms and ammunition for their military. I must admit that we are successful, thanks to the current opposition, to those unfortunate ones I've already talked about. Imagine if they built all the tracks and roads, so what would they build for me now? This is how they think they made our job easier, because they've left our paths open, and then there's the lines that don't build on which trains go at the speed of the diligence. Since they did, they think they're responsible because now we can build roads, railroads, we can build factories, because they left abandoned factories and fired people behind. Now I'm asking -- if they hadn't done wild, predatory privatisation and in various other ways devastationed the country, if they hadn't destroyed our factories, if they hadn't produced hundreds of thousands of unemployed, so we could hire already employed people? So, the 320 000 we have employed mainly, not in the public sector because party employment in the public sector has been banned, in the economy, in economic activity, which is especially good for the country, because from this economic activity, for the first time since the change, this government has contributed to the roads, the railways are built directly from the budget, and not always by some new borrowing, because this new borrowing has its limits. Our far-reaching ancestors left us in charge, and the former government left us with debts and no debt problems and what they owed, but because they didn't create any factory with those debts, no roads, no railroads. I mean, they didn't make any money back. They didn't make a bigger GDP so that they fit in, that if this debt is to grow in proportion to GDP, it's like when you raise a loan in the country, buy a tractor, and if you bought a tractor to expect next year to make more money, pay that loan, and that there's more money among the locals, so you can go to sea, you can buy better clothes, you can buy a better car. No, they did the opposite, they didn't care about the source of debt returns, they lived in charge, they became in charge, they raise their consumption, and they mainly bought goods of foreign origin for that money, which again affected the decrease in production. Serbia is not making that mistake right now. Serbia is being built. I think there are sayings that we're gonna get better every day. In order for us to get better, we have to get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5928	It's Justin Pupin Koscal's national emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5929	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today is on the agenda of a bill confirming the Agreement to boost investments between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. At the beginning of this year, more specifically on January 21st, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the US government signed an interstate agreement to boost investments that is a prerequisite for the start of the US International Development Corporation's activities in Serbia. The US international development financial corporation DFC is the US Federal Government's institution for financing development, which is primarily responsible for providing and enabling the financing of private development projects in countries with lower and medium incomes. This Investment Co-operation Agreement is important for our country's economic development and for achieving the planned rate of economic growth that we have defined in the 2021 budget and budget rebalance for this year, which is 6% of GDP growth. Our economy is open to investment, which shows a huge inflow of foreign direct investment, especially in the last three years. On the other hand, investment security is also important for investors, and that it is high-level shows exactly the interest of the US International Development Corporation for Investment Co-operation with Serbia. The first stage of this co-operation can also be seen as the opening of the US Development Agency in Serbia, which covers the entire region, which was realised in September 2020. Otherwise, the opening of the Development Agency was foreseen by the Washington Agreement. With this Agreement, we are now opening the door to further co-operation with the US administration, and for this reason not only for businessmen, but for all Serbian citizens this is very important news. Certainly, the opening of the DFC office in Belgrade is a step forward towards improving Serbia and the United States' relations. This is a signal to investors that America is willing to invest its money in Serbia, which further initiates project implementation and road construction, which is important for our citizens, but also for the country's economic growth. This is one of the evidence of strengthening Serbia and the United States' overall co-operation. However, this is not the first time the two countries have had economic co-operation. According to the information found in the text of the Agreement, it is in fact an upgrade to the 2001 agreement to encourage investments concluded between the US and the SRJ. Also, the DFC is a legal follower of an overseas private investment corporation that is the holder of the 2001 Agreement. The DFC funds will serve as a guarantee for loans, for Serbian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be taken from business banks and for the purpose of providing liquidity for craft and new investments. It is also important to point out that last year we reached a historic maximum in trade with the United States of America of $854 million, and thanks to this co-operation we can only expect to increase our exchange. It is important to say that so far the United States has invested more than 14 billion euros in Serbia and employs more than 95,000 people in the country, and even more intensive co-operation can be expected in the future. This Agreement provides us much more compared to the 2001 Agreement. The financial service spectre is expanded and includes, among other things, all insurance, feasibility studies for potential projects and grants and is a prerequisite for the implementation of a guarantee scheme that will be implemented in co-operation with DFCs and commercial banks in Serbia. In view of the legal procedure in Serbia, the agreement will also get the full legal effect of ratification in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the 2001 Agreement will cease to apply. If we look at the practice of DFC in the world and numerous examples of successful co-operation, we will notice that DFC has provided successful support in the development of renewable energy sources, improving medical protection in African countries, as well as the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in developing countries. What is certain is that these incentives will help create new jobs, but even better positioning Serbia on the list of countries that are safe and attractive to invest, whose economy is stable and is a safe place for business. We can view this agreement as a document of confidence that Serbia enjoys, given the economic reforms it implements, US support on the way to our European integration, and as Ambassador Gotfrey himself said, "Serbia's future as an economic leader in the Balkans". The improvement of relations with America is one of the foreign-political priorities of the Republic of Serbia. It is important that we promote relations in other fields such as sports, culture, science and other areas. It is particularly important to step up economic ties and co-operation with investment partners and, therefore, I will support this agreement in the voting day, that is, this afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5930	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf the students and representatives of the professional school "Dusan Trifunac Dragos" from Srljiga, who are following part of today's session from the gallery in the Great Hall. Please give a big round of applause and a visit today to the National Assembly. We're moving on now. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5931	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, dear fellow citizens, dear children from Svrlig, professors, school directors, citizens of Serbia, I would like to thank on behalf of both the citizens of Svrlig and all the people living in the territory of southeastern Serbia as the first government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Assembly, which gives Serbia the opportunity to develop our Serbia in every part of our country of Serbia. This is something that's good for all of us. These agreements are important for us, for our country, but most importantly for all of us here in Serbia are our children. These are children from Srlig who are very smart and when I say I come from Srlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, but there are also the best people in Serbia, they are in Srlig. These are our children who invented a few things that are important for the future and development of our country, for the development of science. It was a filter regarding the protection of the environment and of devices that would protect health tomorrow and save people's lives. Once again as an MP, as a man, I welcome all people, especially our children from Srlig, from all parts of Serbia. Best of luck and keep our lives and forwards Serbia! Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5932	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5933	Dear Chairman, Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to share with you some of my observations on the proposal for a law confirming an investment in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government, which creates conditions for the start of the US International Development Finance Corporation, which is agreed on by that agreement on economic normalisation of the relationship signed in Washington. There is no doubt that as a country, we are in an area where there is a strong geopolitical confrontation of great forces, which has recently been especially seen on the economic agenda. The United States as the strongest world power certainly has the greatest capacity to have a crucial impact on political, security, economic processes, not only in the Balkans but also in Europe, which is seen in the case of the construction of the North Stream pipeline 2. That's why it's very important for us to create conditions to improve bilateral relations with the United States. We have quite a stable political communication with Washington, we have developed military co-operation, especially with the National Guard of Ohio, we have the SOFA Agreement on the status of US military personnel on our territory, had co-operation with KFOR, which also includes US forces only, I think, for the first three months of this year, our military has had over 130 different activities with the Multinational KFOR Brigade, which is all well, but on the economic plan I think we need to do, Minister, a lot more effort to make these relations advance. Official data suggests that last year we had about 700 million dollars in exchange for each other, which is pretty little for the world's leading economic force. I think there's a lot we need to do and that this DFC, or this international fund, is going to be able to create a new stronger basis for us and a momentum to improve these relations. In 2018, the US ambassador said that Serbia employs 100 US companies that invest four billion dollars and employ 20,000 people, compared to German companies employing 70,000 people, while total investments by all companies that are members of the American Chamber of Commerce are 14 billion, with the employment of 100,000 people. Of course, US economic co-operation and American company investment can trigger strong economic development of Serbia, but American companies bring state-of-the-art technology, bring in very experienced management, bring in a modern way of doing business, but what I would say, Mr. Minister, for our economy, is particularly important, and that is transparency in business, without that there is no progress in any economy. Transparency also involves a sharp fight against corruption and organised crime and abuses that can be created by individuals in the state apparatus. The increase in transparency in all this is very, very important and I think that the positioning of the American Development Agency will be one step forward in this regard. In addition, I think that to a significant extent we will be able to strengthen bilateral relations with the United States and create conditions for a certain relaxation on which we do not agree and where our attitudes are completely opposed, which is the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. We know the U.S.'s position that this is a state for them and that this story is over and that we are expected to be mutually recognized for what I think is a misunderstanding, although I am a politician, I have to admit that I haven't heard more nonsense all these years since I've been involved in politics and I've been present in public life for almost 35 years, but well, a lot of things a man hears in his life. What I think you need to do more as a government is strongly promote opportunities that will provide for the presence of DFC in Serbia. I remember that Richard Grenner, after the signing, probably remember that relationship normalization agreement, said that the aim of the DFC was, among other things, to strongly assist the private sector, small and medium-sized enterprises and to teach these people not to think Russianly, in Chinese terms, but to accept the American way of doing business and the American way of thinking. It already shows that there are certain geopoliticals there, but it shows us that Serbia has managed to create a very successful model, in a global tropical geopolitical area, where they make us define whether you are for one or the other side and that you are suffering damage when you define yourself for one side where Serbia right through the DFC and this Economic Normalisation Agreement managed to create a good model of co-operation and to force the United States to start competing economically in our area. Look at this, the EU has agreed to participate in the construction of high-speed railways in the area from Belgrade to the border with Northern Macedonia after China offered its terms. The Europeans then said – we will give better conditions. This all shows that there is one strong geopolitical game, but it's good for us and we can get out of it certain benefits and the arrival of DFC is a certain benefit because Washington has defined itself to compete with competitive forces here, not to go with some measures such as measures against, say, building a North 2 pipeline. That is why I think that in the next period and I believe that we will use the best possible way to help the development of our economy, to get funds for the necessary infrastructure projects, but to help in particular the development of the private sector, these small and medium-sized enterprises. I repeat, we need transparency to do this, we need an even stronger fight against corruption, against organised crime, and to make the best use of the presence of DFC in order to improve overall relations with the United States, because improving relations with Washington not only can bring us economic profits, not only can it relax some of the political tensions that exist between Washington and Belgrade on KIM, but also to facilitate and co-operate with us very friendly countries with which we have strategic partnerships, with Russia and with China. So I repeat again, the DFC may be the best answer to all those who are sneerly referring to Serbia's idea of a four-phase pillar when it comes to foreign policy. That it is possible to do so in these almost cold-blooded geopolitical conflicts on the international stage. That is why I strongly support this law that will also allow DFC to work in Serbia. I believe that you too, once with a very intense promotion, will show our people, our business people, and those who want to start new jobs to have a great chance of getting some funding. Besides, let's not forget that DFC doesn't just want to borrow or give guarantees. They even want to participate as partners in business with companies that already have some very good jobs and which achieve certain results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5934	I thank the People's MP Milovan Drecun. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5935	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will be as a longtime employee of the Customs Administration to speak about the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on mutual recognition of the Programme of authorised economic operators for security and security, the AE signed between the Ministry of Customs of the Republic of Serbia's Ministry of Finance and the Credit Management Programme of the General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China. At the very beginning, I would like to say a few words about this programme itself of authorised economic operators for the safety and security of the AEO in Serbia. The provisions concerning this programme have been in the Customs Act since 2010. However, as with all agreements, laws and other legal acts, we had to wait for them only when the SNS party took the helm in running the state apparatus and it began to apply from 1.9.2014. The AEO programme is fully in line with the EU countries' programme and currently in Serbia 35 companies hold an AEO certificate. These are companies that need to meet the following criteria: that they followed all customs rules in the previous period, that they did not commit criminal and criminal acts, that they were financially stable in meeting their obligations to the Republic of Serbia, to meet the appropriate standards for security and security in the supply chain and other criteria. All of them make them stable and reliable partners of the Customs Administration, but also secure partners in international trade. The benefits that companies receive from this status are numerous: easier access to a simplified customs procedure, fewer controls, priority in control, lower operating costs, better service provision and the next. One of these benefits is that companies can also have these advantages on the international business plan in other countries, and this will happen just like this international agreement that we are discussing today and which will be signed between China and Serbia in the future. When it comes to this agreement, I would like to point out that bilateral co-operation relations between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China are based on traditional close ties between the two peoples who are regularly promoted, through regular contacts at all levels. The People's Republic of China is one of the most important pillars of Serbia's foreign policy and Serbia's largest economic partner certainly in Asia. It is important to point out that the People's Republic of China has so far provided principled and stable RS support on the subject of so-called. The Republic of Kosovo for membership of the World Customs Organisation, and in this respect we should particularly point out that the People's Republic of China is a member of a working group dealing with the accession issues of the World Customs Organisation. The agreement, between the customs administrations of Serbia and China, continues with excellent co-operation that has taken place over the past few years through the framework protocol for co-operation in facilitating the customs procedure between Chinese, Hungarian, Macedonian and Serbian customs, etc. "Three Plus One" Protocol signed in Belgrade on 17 December 2014 under the summit of China and Central and Eastern European countries. Given that the RS as well as the People's Republic of China are committed to simplifying and speeding up customs procedures, as well as that the programmes for the granting of AEO approval are operational in both countries, the Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China has proposed the launch of negotiations in mutual recognition whose ultimate objective is exactly the conclusion of this bilateral agreement. The basic objectives of this Agreement are to improve the safety of the transport of goods between the two countries, to make use of reliefs from customs controls, or to simplify and preferable treatment with regard to risk assessment and control. The achievement of those objectives will bring better business opportunities to both countries, improve the safety of goods entering and exiting the territory of signatories, without disrupting trade flows, as well as removing barriers to trade between them. I would like to point out that this agreement is also another confirmation of the exceptional co-operation between our two states. I expect and hope that this agreement will provide a further basis for strengthening economic relations and an even better co-operation of the two countries' customs administrations. While in addition to these agreements that we are talking about today and which we will sign in due time, we also sign new agreements on a daily basis that improve and facilitate the everyday life of our citizens. We're opening new hospitals, just like we're going to open a New Sad hospital in a few months. We begin the joint production of vaccines with our friends from Russia, which solves a few health issues at the world level. We're opening factories, like the one we laid a cornerstone for a few days ago, this South Korean giant factory that will employ 700 people in Smederjevska Palanca, of which 700 families will live better and more easily. We are building railways, like the one announced yesterday or yesterday to Northern Macedonia, which we will build with the help of our friends from the EU and for which we are grateful. In all this time of our economic development, we are creating strong, friendly and unbreakable relationships with both China and these countries that we are talking about today and with Germany, Russia, the EU, Arab countries and South Korea in the end, in all these difficult circumstances that have hit us. As we reflect on progress, on the development of our country and people, not only do we think, but we do, and that's a big difference, I have to ask how fellow MPs, so do our people, what are our political inexperiences doing, that I don't even call your opponents? What are they offering to our people, what are they calling for? As we can see, in recent days they've been calling for rematchism, calling for cleanups, calling for persecution. Then I'd ask a question, is it a hate speech that's always being respected or a speech of peace, tolerance and co-operation? They say they will arrest all those who have sinned against the law in the beginning by violating the presummation of innocence. What's going on, I'd ask a question, with a vast majority of citizens out of the election giving more and more support to our party, our policy being guided by what's known in political theory as a rational choice theory where everyone votes for what they think is best for him, for bigger wages, for better living conditions, for a safer and more respected country, for a more certain future, for him and his family, what's going to be with them? Are they included in this Corps that is subject to the rematch they call upon? Are you going to chase them just because they voted for our party, leave them without employment, without work, without being able to enroll children in kindergarten? Of course you won't, the respected opposition, for a number of reasons. First, because your program is bad. You have to say something and offer something that will make life a better life for the citizens, and we've already done it all, and we do it more and more every day, so you can't catch up with us, and you've had opportunities for many years as you've been in power and you haven't done any of that. Secondly, we are an acceptable partner to everyone, who holds the word that you can rely on, who fulfils all of his obligations both on internal and foreign policy, and not as some of our friends from Kosovo who sign for something every week, but do nothing in the end. We are finally those who want peace and progress, and therefore we are supported by all significant international political entities, and those who do not support us will soon change their attitude when they see our sincere and honorable intentions aimed at developing a better life for everyone, including us. Third, because the only thing you're offering as your political program is rematchism, these are the arrests of those who have sinned against the law. Dear gentlemen, you've distracted our minds that we are ourselves ready to recognize and discover both the weeds and the shears in all our ranks, even in our own and bring them in the known rights. In the end, fourth, because no matter how hard we strive to slander, lie and accuse this authority, deceive and deceive the wise Serbian people and make it blind in the eyes, you cannot do so because he sees who thinks, who works and who speaks for his good. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5936	I thank the People's MP. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Adriana Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5937	I thank the vice president of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, and in the first place distinguished citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when such draft laws are on the agenda, it is modest to say that they are just confirming exceptional co-operation with the United States, the Republic of France and the brotherly people of the People's Republic of China. I get the impression that they are precisely showing that there is a categorical imperative between all of us, that SNS MPs, SPS MPs, JS, SPP, SDP, SDP, Rescue, but also our opponents, which we really need as a society of responsible, modern states to reach a consensus in order to both Chinese and French people, but also the people of the United States, coming to the Republic of Serbia, felt like they were in their home. How far has our country progressed with Alexander Vukic headed, given the fact that the ninth session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was convened on the basis of the roof law, the Budget Law, and when we talk about projects, parallels, I will present the following. In 2014, the then head of the Borski Management District, Miroslav Knezevic and myself, knowing that the fiscal deficit in the Republic of Serbia amounted to 2.2 billion euros, while the public debt was over 70%, shyly delivering ideas that are of general importance, hoping that a better time would come for their realization. And it came. Now the Republic of Serbia has a surplus in the budget, a public debt below 60% of GDP. Thanks to the successful continuation of co-operation with the current district chief, individual ministries whose headquarters is the Ministry of Finance, Prime Minister and our President Aleksandar Vucic, given the fact that money flows are not water money that can evaporate, at least when it comes to the SNS, they can proudly point out to citizens of eastern Serbia that only for roads and railways in the Borska Management District in 2019 10.5 billion dinars were invested, as well as the expectation of building the eastern arm of the highway "Vozd Karadjordje". For my Borans, it is important to know that the funds have been allocated for part of the Bor-Separtment road, part of Negotin-Bor, as well as for the Bor-Brestovac-Metovnica-Zečar road. When we talk about infrastructure projects, thanks to Minister Momirovic and the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure, which is headed, 80m euros have been allocated for investment in municipal infrastructure. Five wastewater treatment plants, four in the city, one in Lake Borsko, as well as 108km of sewage infrastructure, for which the citizens of Bora are particularly grateful. It took seventy years to understand how much danger it took from the ships that were downed by the Dusts lying on that part of the Danube, the pearl of Timočka Krajina. Plan a complete reconstruction of the ship's translation at the Gerdap II Hydropower Plant, which will speed up traffic in that part of the Danube. For the extraction of dangerous ships, 1.5m euros have been set aside for documentation and recording alone, where the ship's cargo transport, as well as passengers, will be carried out without fear by our side of the Danube. For eastern Serbia, one of the most important projects is the continuation of the construction of the second phase of the Bogovinski Vodast, which, thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic and the Prime Minister, is on the list of priorities planned and potential accumulation of the first level of importance and which, from the point of view of the regional water supply system, both the population and other business entities and also important flood defence facilities, has strategic significance for the Republic of Serbia. The interest of the Borsko and Zaječar Management District, as well as the municipalities of Bolec, Književec and Sokobanja, speaks of the fact that this project overcomes political, geographical, demographic, spatial and local differences. Just thanks to the bilateral agreement, the implementation of the projects will be faster and easier. It is my special honor to be a member of the Group of Representatives of Friendship with China and France. The mutually beneficial co-operation and joint development of the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Serbia is also seen through capital investments in Jelizar Smederevo and the Bora mine, which won first and second place in 2020 in the order of exporters in the Republic of Serbia. In the beginning for our people, it was incomprehensible that the Chinese would form a strategic partnership and become the majority owner of the Ironworks, but also the Mining Melician Baseline Bor, but major changes took place. Salaries that average in "Serbia Zijin Bor Corper" doo Bor are up to 85,000 dinars net. Old is replaced by new, better, more modern. Again you can see a clear vision of the future, prosperity, progress. With the Chinese brotherly people, this vision in Bor has been given the new name Si Jin, while in the Republic of Serbia, the name of our President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5938	I thank the People's Parliament Adriana Pupovac. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5939	Excuse me, Your Honor, how much time do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5940	The remaining time for the parliamentary group is 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5941	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, allow me to say a few words as one of the registered debaters of the Socialist Party of Serbia's Parliamentary Group on the draft of these laws discussed today by the Assembly. Namely, all these laws, these agreements, which today are the subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the People's Republic of China, the United States and the Republic of France, have their own financial, economic dimension, which is why these contracts today represent Mr. Minister, but it must be said that these contracts have their own development and political dimension and have an absolute interstate dimension and are part of the overall relations of the Republic of Serbia with these countries. It cannot be ignored that these contracts show in themselves how active and wise foreign policy we have, and that our state leadership is working together with the great countries of the world, that these countries are involved in the economic development of the Republic of Serbia, that this co-operation is very broad, very broad in content, that there are a large number of contracts that are the subject of joint work, and not only to improve the infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia, not only to ensure that new jobs are opened, new companies start working, people are employed, general prosperity, increases the social gross product of the Republic of Serbia, but on the other hand shows the Republic of Serbia in one other, a new light compared to the time before. After 2000, we had one practical situation, that our economy had fallen on its knees by the process of robbery privatisation and opening, by liberalising our society for importing products without any protection of the state, by the next blind model of the liberal economy society, we allowed a lot of things to fall apart and it took us a long, long time to clean up the economic system, to establish economic stability so that we could take steps like this. But this work in the economy wasn't in itself enough that there wasn't enough activity on the agenda to improve interstate relations. I will say something to these contracts and on interstate relations, but I cannot use this opportunity, since these contracts have, I said, in addition to the financial, economic dimension, the infrastructure dimension, I cannot mention and what President Vukic told us yesterday from Brussels, when he said that with the support of the EU we will build a railway, quote, between Belgrade and Nis, but also from Nis to Leskovec, Vranja, Tabanovac, Presevo, to the border with Northern Macedonia, which will give us better connections with both Vienna and Zagreb, with Athens, Thessaloniki, Sofia and Istanbul. He pointed out the importance of realising these contracts. I mention this in the context of everything that has been happening in the Republic of Serbia in recent years. Simply, this government has changed the image of Serbia, not only in international relations, but also in the region, but we living in the Republic of Serbia can best see how much is done, how much is done, and how many new kilometers of highways and highways are made, how many contracts are realised, or many projects in different areas. Simply, as the economic picture of the Republic of Serbia improved, the economic situation of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me, the other day the IMF gave recognition to Serbia for the results in the area of the economy. They said that in 2020 we were one of the best economies in Europe in terms of the pandemic and the general decline in production in almost all countries of the world, and even 6% growth is foreseen for 2021. This is mentioned in the context of the fact that the first of a contract that I will say something about the People's Republic of China must, as I say, illuminate the importance and role of the People's Republic of China in world relations. In fact, China has become the world's main economy, it is the first country to face the crown, but the first country to control Kovid-19 and throughout 2020, the Chinese state was one of the few in the world that had a positive economic growth rate, in 2020 that rate was 2.3%. China has achieved, of course, other goals, but I am saying this in the context of the importance of the People's Republic of China in world relations and the importance of our relations with the People's Republic of China. If I just mention that according to the new statistics in the first quarter of this year, China has achieved 18.3% GDP growth, and the goal for this year is to be 6%, while the World Bank at the same time forecasts that Chinese economic growth will reach 8.1%. Then you can think of what it means in world terms for a country that has 1.3 billion inhabitants and represents a huge economy that has different, as I would say, elements of co-operation with other countries. In this context, it can be understood what cooperation with the People's Republic of China means for our economy. The agreement we're discussing today, here, I'm just going to mention a part of that argument for the adoption of this law, that the adoption of this law creates better business opportunities in both countries to improve the safety of goods entering and leaving the territory of signatories states, without disrupting trade flows, as removing barriers to mutual trade. This is something that Serbia also needs very much for the People's Republic of China, for the simple reason to reduce the imbalance in the economic exchange that exists, this is one fact, because we have very intense co-operation with the People's Republic of China, and yet this co-operation with the People's Republic of China is very broad in its spectrum and has different elements. Yesterday we had the opportunity to host Ambassador Chen Bo as a Friendship Group with the People's Republic of China and we heard from her a lot of nice words about our co-operation, a lot of important things about the content of our co-operation and to get to know what China has done for the world and for us in the past year. As far as Serbia is concerned, I think the most important thing that can be said for the past year is the fact that the People's Republic of China has provided at this time the Kovida-19 pandemic, which has been harassing the world, China has helped Serbia in time to get medical equipment, to get respirators, to get everything it takes to fight Kovida-19 in the right way. Besides, the Chinese doctors came to us. This must be mentioned in order to see the importance of the People's Republic of China and Serbia's support in the fight against birds. But at a time when the vaccine turned out to be the only way to stop the covid, we got finalized on the day before yesterday three million doses of vaccines from China. Thanks to this number, of course, to the fact that we've beaten both the phaser and the sputnik and the "astra woman" that we're one of the few countries in the world that has four different kinds of vaccines that citizens can vaccine and that there's a possibility of free choice. We are by the number of vaccinated and revaccinated among the first countries in Europe and the world. This is, of course, important for the perspectives of development and economy, because if we don't have a working-age population that can participate in the development of economic activities, then that doesn't mean anything. It's just one of the things that we could hear yesterday from the ambassador, but what we all know is that for years Serbia has been working well with the People's Republic of China, that Chinese companies are also participating in the construction of a share of Belgrade-South Adriatic highways, bypasses around Belgrade, that along with China, a fast track project from Budapest to Belgrade has been realised, that in the Chinese company they participated in the construction of the second block of the Kostolac B thermal power plant and the construction of the third block, not to mention the importance of Chinese companies related to our economy. The company HBIS, as we know, owned by Jelizara Smederevo, "Zi Jin" bought a combination in Bor. There's a big tire factory in Zrenjanin. This is just part of all the total relations we have with the People's Republic of China and that should be pointed out. There is much to be said about co-operation with the People's Republic of China, given that Serbia is one of the most significant partners, if not the most significant partner of the People's Republic of China in this part of Europe, not by the total amount of funds that are part of the projects of joint realisation, because you have within the co-operation process "17 plus 1" there are members of the European Union who have greater co-operation with the People's Republic of China on these projects, such as Poland, such as Romania, such as the Czech Republic, such as Hungary, I think Slovakia. So, there are individual projects that are more valuable, but according to the number of total projects being implemented, according to everything Serbia means in this co-operation process "17 plus 1", it is seen that our role is also great. After all, we hosted a one-off in 2014, which also speaks of the relationship China has towards us and Belgrade being the Infrastructure Development Association, which again speaks in itself of the importance that Belgrade has as one hub for infrastructure development. This contract we signed with the People's Republic of China will only further improve that co-operation. When I mentioned that we have a wise state policy and an active state policy, I mentioned it yesterday, and I am obliged to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it must be understood that the tone of those relations is given by Presidents Si Jinping and President Vukic. It's not an exaggeration, it's a logical thing and in our relationships a good thing, because it gives us the opportunity to have special relations with China, at the end of the day, because we all know that in 2009 with China, we established a strategic partnership, so it's an extended partnership, now it's comprehensive, that Si Jinping has the opportunity to, as it often emphasizes, it's a steel friendship, and it's in itself talking about relations between us and the People's Republic of China. The second agreement we are discussing today is an agreement with the United States of America to encourage investment between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United States. As regards this agreement, it must be said that the realisation of this agreement will create an opportunity for new jobs and for the employment of our citizens. In addition to co-operation in the area of attracting investment, Serbia is co-operating in different areas, but we, I am personally convinced, for the past few years, especially in September of last year when President Vukic signed a Washington Economic Co-operation Agreement in Washington, I think we opened a new page in our relations. We know everything that's happened in the past in the 1990s, especially bombings in 1999, we know how things are, but we just want relations with the United States to be better. The United States is today one of the largest foreign investors in the Republic of Serbia, with the largest investment. It is in the company "Philip Morris", "Pepsi Ko", "Coca-Cola", "Bol Corporation" and others. I mention this because all of these relationships, I say, have both economic and other dimensions, and this must be taken into account, because this agreement simply gives us the opportunity to gain credibility as a reliable economic partner of the United States, but also as a country where there is the possibility of investing American capital in various infrastructure projects. By realising this agreement, by accepting this agreement, we get the opportunity to provide other types of financial support. The agreement has its own sense of realising the Washington Agreement, which is not only dedicated to realising projects between Belgrade and Pristina, but has a broader dimension of regional and is very important because it improves regional co-operation. I will not mention the political dimension of this relationship, but the Republic of Serbia adheres to all the elements of the signed agreement and I think we show that we are very credible, and we are very serious, and political, and economic partner. I think that's how we should proceed. The third law which is the subject of our consideration is - a bill on the confirmation of Annex 1 to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of France on co-operation in the area of implementation of projects in Serbia. He has, formally, only to say, a change in the competent institution to implement a priority project in the field of energy. But what is important, it includes, it is part of an agreement that covers the realization of several projects. The very fact that it is related to building a metro in Belgrade speaks about the importance not only of this law, but also of the Republic of France in improving the infrastructure in Serbia. I think it's very, very important. The agreement concerns building a subway. The estimated value is 4.4 billion euros. The construction of the first subway line should begin at the end of this year, end by 2028, and the second line begins in 2023, end by 2030. This is about the importance of this law, but I have to mention another fact that links this law to the one mentioned earlier, about China, not just from the point of view of formal relations, but from the point of view of essence. France's Astom will finance 30% of the project's value and will operate electro-mechanics, trains, wagons, rails, power supply, complete subway equipment, and China's Tea Power company will finance construction works, the other 70% of the projects. At the end of this exhibition, I'll be back to square one. These three contracts, Mr. Minister, have an economic, financial, infrastructure, but also a political dimension. It is fully evident that by adopting these laws, or by implementing these projects, Serbia will take another important step towards improving its infrastructure. This will, of course, bring Serbia an improvement, not only within us from the point of view of the infrastructure projects that are being implemented, but Serbia becomes an important transit destination for other countries, for the free movement of people, goods and capital. This will be felt in our country's economy and in GDP growth. I have to say that I think this is a great thing and I'm glad you're here, because you're in a position to explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia the importance of these laws, because when you look at the titles they have a drying content, when you look at the essence, then you just realize how important this is for the Republic of Serbia and for its future development. Thank you very much. We will, of course, support all three laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5942	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5943	The Honorable Chairman, Mrs Kovac, the Honorable Mr. Minister Mali, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, the honourable citizens, these three extraordinary agreements will bring new projects, investments, better business with both China and the United States and France. It is these three agreements, which I say, that turn to three different sides, China, the US, the EU and France, are talking about a balanced policy of Serbia and that we have the right to a balanced policy. This agreement, in particular, and I will rely most on it, on the Agreement with China, it will bring better business opportunities to both countries. So it will improve the safety of goods, of course it concerns certain and customs matters, speed up trade flows and remove barriers to trade with China. With China, too, Serbia is running a very balanced policy, a diverse policy, and, above all, economic policy. China, and most importantly, is selflessly helping Serbia in many fields, and unlike some other countries, China does not impose its policy, does not condition it, nor will it ever, nor will it, obviously, blackmail Serbia. How much yesterday in this assembly was her esteemed Excellency, Ambassador of China Chen Bo, at the first meeting of the parliamentary group of friendships in this meeting. The best example of Serbia and China's co-operation is of course an epidemic, the acquisition of vaccines and the selfless assistance of China. We've heard about three million vaccines from China. In China, and that's important to say, and my speech will contain two parts, one will talk about the Chinese model, and one part of the speech will refer to the Serbian state model, and they are very connected, you will understand that at the end of the speech. In China, and in Serbia as well, meretocrats rule. Meritocracy is a leadership based on talent, intelligence and other essential skills, not heritage, which is aristocracy, not wealth, which is a plutocracy and not the will of the majority in China, which is a democracy that is highly overrated, let me tell you. Meritocracy is a concept by which economic goods and political power are entrusted to individuals based on talent, pre-governing and knowledge. I can see that Serbia led by President Vukic also applies a similar state-of-the-art model. I'll be back for this later. So, China regardless of stereotypes about it is not a single-party state at all. In China, the truth is dominated by the Communist Party of China, however, it was nothing that bothered China to become, for a number of years, the most powerful economic power in the world. There are eight more in China, so in China, I'm not talking about Hong Kong, Makau and Taiwan, there are eight other political parties in China, and they are all recognized, besides the KPK in the Constitution of China and all nine make up the united front, which, of course, is dominated by the KPK. However, these eight political parties are in a multi-party co-operation system and political consultations led by the KP of China and the eight parties are, and there you will see some parallel that might make it look, benevolent, are opposition, are part opposition, but not in that western way. However, they are well-intentioned and do not plant clips in the points of progress of China. In Taiwan and Hong Kong and Makau, so that's one country, two systems, there's a series, not to say hundreds of political parties. So, just eight Chinese parties, I said, are already not opposition to that classical West, I would say a destructive way, but those together with the KP China take part in state affairs, counselling on the principles of state policy and choosing even the highest leadership of the country. These eight parties participate in the implementation of the agreed policy and application of the laws and in the bodies, most importantly, the Svekine National Congress. They have independent status, they are therefore independent parties and each enjoys agreed political freedoms, the right to organisation, independence, equality and so on. China already has to say no more for a millennium, certainly 1,500 years, a capable public administration, responsible authority and rule of law. Of course, we have that short period where certain things were in the period when it was really a one-party system, some things were suspended, but in the '80s China regained its strength. So, according to Western IPSOS research on China, in March 2019, as many as 94% of Chinese show satisfaction in moving through China. The Chinese ruling party enjoys a high degree of respect and trust for the population. So, the Chinese are champions in terms of optimism, and in terms of the future of the country, and also something to notice, so, in these 14 months, there is no country that is better equipped with epidemics and pandemics than China, let's say it was the first one that started to vaccinate those most important categories of people last year. So, the Chinese state is responsible for the quality of the rules on the rule of law, the fight against corruption and therefore China is highly known and owned, so China has a high degree of efficiency in governance, and support for the Chinese people is based on the policy and legitimacy of action, i.e., simply put, the Chinese authorities deliver the expected benefits to the Chinese people. There I would draw another parallel, at the time of the SNS and at this time Alexander Vukic, the Serbian authorities, also deliver the expected benefits to the Serbian people. The Communist Party of China says – we can only manage until we have economic results. China has an institutional solution to achieve consensus, as we see in Serbia, on national priorities and what should be the case here, and in the main, is, at least when we see this parliament and the election results. I'm coming back now, making a parallel with a new state-of-the-art structure in Serbia. So, in the 2014 elections, 2016 Presidential 2017 and 2020, the Serbian people, as someone who deserves trust, so, SNS and President Vukic, recognized in numbers, so by this election 1,740,000 people, 1,820,000 people, 2,010 thousand in the case of President Vukic, and 1,953,000 in previous SNS elections. So that's a sign. What's that sign for? It is a sign that the SNS has long become a broad folk movement that exceeds the importance and essence of a political party. The Serbian Progressive Party represents a golden cross-section of Serbian society. In the last five years, the world of SNS that accepts, as we see at least 60% of citizens, has been crystallized. After 13 years, the SNS has become similar to the Unique Russia, a movement similar to the ruling Chinese party, which involves two important preconditions, stable multi-annual support, at least half of the electoral body and taking over the entire position of the centre on both the left and the right, which we see is the case. Of course, Serbia must continue and it will continue to join the EU of integration, and the EU is an unquestionable destination for Serbia. In any case, Russia and China show that a different model can be more successful than the Western. The model is increasingly applied by Serbia. There are clear indications, the formation of a new political model in Serbia. This new political model implies, under 1 – etatism, i.e. the strong role of the state, under 2 – capitalism with a human face, under 3 – one dominant party and under 4 – mertocratism, and we see that all this is the case in Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party has gradually led to the fact that in Serbia today, we should be proud to say the government is the mertocrat, the rule of the most capable. In the ninth year of government, President Vukic and the SNS have shown that Serbia offers stability, future, development, success both on the internal and external political agenda. President Vucic and SNS are building bridges in social sleaze. For nine years, President Vukic himself has provided his hand to the left and right, and to that so-called. the patriot and the so-called Another Serbia, and an unsuspecting, unsuspecting member of the former ruling parties, the president hands out. The Serbian Progressive Party is the representative of the vast majority of ordinary citizens, not false elites. Over the nine years, hundreds of thousands of citizens who were previously transition losers have been re-enlisted in the system. These citizens have practically recovered, we have given them back many civil rights, the right to work, participation in public life, and many others who have taken away DOS and so on. The yellow DS fake elite. This is a positive and most positive sociological phenomenon. Look, as far as we all know, democracy means that word literally means the rule of the people. Well, here's the rule of the people, with the help of the SNS. President Vukic runs a strategic, tactically brilliant policy, balanced, I've already said that. It's a policy of neutrality, not only in theory but in practice. So, as we can see, Serbia is working very well with the EU, especially with Germany, both Russia and China and the United States, and with all our neighbours, we are developing balanced and we are doing our best with friendly relations. On our side, we're completely at peace. President Vukic gives his hand to all, and despite Croatian provocations from the Federation of BiH, Montenegro, the false state of Kosovo and Albania, and nevertheless, and this should continue, only praises the patient and friendship, and help, I once spoke of, aid in vaccines almost, to all countries, and to all those who accepted it. Also, President Vukic shows praise for the campaign of hatred and Satanisation, which comes from the tycoon opposition and the tycoon media. Serbia's migrant policy, for its commendation, has received positive assessments of all international financial institutions, the economic situation in Serbia has long been stable, and Serbia, especially in these 14 months, has been fighting an outbreak and is the leader in Europe's vaccination. Divisions in society are reduced to the least possible. Of course, at least seven years of fighting corruption and the mafia continue, and longer, foreign investors across Serbia are being brought in, jobs are being opened, and what is also significant, media are being freed from government pressures. In fact, only a small part of the media in Serbia supports the government or the Serbian Progressive Party, while most of the media, unfortunately under the control of foreign and tycoon circles, should be said clearly. This is also the case with the previous regime until 2012 to say significantly, there is no such thing as SNS. Holy cows. The shifts and arrests of officials are not a rare occurrence at all, while DS authorities have not replaced their most corrupt official. The name of Aleksandar Vukic is a symbol of Serbia's restoration, construction and rise, and together with President Vukic we are fighting for Serbia to remain a decent, civilized and just society, and we defend our own beliefs in an assert way, so with full respect for other people's beliefs. Assertiveness implies a willingness to stand firm and reasonedly represent one's own confidence, at the same time with the willingness to hear the opposite opinion and with full respect and defense of the right of this opposite opinion. To finish, citizens need a stable and strong Serbia, such as Serbia means that its headquarters party is stable and strong, so Serbia is looking for a new political model that is currently providing the SNS. This will prevent the processes of decommissioning states that encourage external and internal enemies, of course they exist. SNS members, millions of SNS voters and everyone, Serbian citizens are these countries. SNS members and voters are average, normal, ordinary citizens. Finally, these ordinary citizens as if this verse were told by famous Polish poet Tadeus Ruževič in his famous song "Songs of Old Women", where he said "Their sons discover America, die at Termopil, die on crosses, conquer the cosmos. “ Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5944	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5945	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Kovac, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Finance Ministers, Mr Mali, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and dear citizens of Serbia, at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about three very important bilateral agreements for our country. The first agreement between Serbia and France, also the agreement between Serbia and the People's Republic of China, as well as the US Agreement. I will refer first to that agreement with France, but also to the agreement with the United States, and then I will speak a little bit more in detail about the agreement with the People's Republic of China. As far as our relationship with France is concerned, we have friendly relations, they're very good relationships, relations on one level, I can say, pure levels. They're our friends. France has helped us a lot during World War I, it has always been with us and I believe that these relations will continue to develop, and it is still important that we are on the European path and that France is with the German leader, that is, that promoter of the development of the entire EU. As far as relations with the United States are concerned, we were also allies in World War I and in World War II, and we today have very high quality relations, first of all economic relations, and recently opened the DVC Office in Belgrade. I believe that these relations will be at an even higher level and that these political relations will continue to develop. Of course, they're on an envious level already. As for the agreement with the People's Republic of China, I must stress that this is a very important agreement when it comes to our international trade, namely the removal of a number of customs barriers. In particular, it is a bilateral international agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual recognition of the AEO programme, i.e. authorised economic operators for security and security of the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Credit Management Programme of the Company of the General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China to benefit from the relief from customs controls. Our Ministry of Finance, Customs Administration and the General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China are responsible for the implementation of this Agreement. This agreement provides for a number of reliefs, and they can be summed up in five key reliefs. I'll read them now. So, it's a small number of documentary controls, a small number of physical controls on import goods, a priority procedure for physical control of goods, specialised customs officers who will have special communications duties and for the quick and efficient removal of potential problems and the provision of priorities in the event of a stalemate in international trade. These reliefs are based on an important principle of international private, but primarily international public law, which is the principle of reciprocity. I'm sure that principle of reciprocity isn't just a legacy in that right, because we have some good relationships that are on that protocol level. No, I'm sure this principle of reciprocity is strong and will apply precisely because we have very good and deepened relations with the People's Republic of China. I feel free to say that these relations are slowly becoming brotherly relations and will therefore also contribute to the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Serbia when it comes to international trade. All these reasons can be summed up into some three key ideas. The first is certainly that we will strengthen our economic relations, our economic co-operation, the second is that we will remove all obstacles in our international trade, and the third is that we will thus ensure, or improve security in this trade process itself, especially when it comes to customs. China is, freely, a great friend of Serbia, our brother state and it has been proven many times, and I will not just talk about our economic co-operation. Also, there is a well-developed military cooperation. Of course, I can't talk about these things in more detail, but the Republic of Serbia and its dedicated industry certainly become a very important factor in the region, and I'm sure there is a possibility that co-operation with the People's Republic of China will develop in that field as well. I'm sure the Chinese side is also interested. But as far as our economy is concerned, I can tell you that in the last five years, even 15 times the export of our products to the People's Republic of China has been increased, and that's a great result. Also, China is our third foreign trade partner, and I'm sure there's potential for one day they're our biggest foreign trade partner. As far as fighting the coronaryvirus is concerned, China has helped Serbia greatly, and we are all aware of that. Let's just remember last year that when this whole thing, I feel free to say, the chaos around the crown, that China was the one who first handed out the hand of friendship, the hand of help, that it sent its best experts. We remember that famous team who came here to Serbia, who helped us redecorate our hospitals in such a way that they could receive covid patients. Let's just remember that the Chinese were the first to send us numerous masks, respirators, various medical equipment. It was all done by the People's Republic of China. They also built two very modern laboratories according to the world's greatest standards for detecting this virus, the Kovid-19 virus. Today, the People’s Republic of China sends us contingents of half a million Chinese vaccines “Sinofarm” at almost regular intervals. It's a very important result. Half a million Chinese vaccines almost regularly in the correct spaces they send us. So that's 250,000 re-exploited people. As far as infrastructure is concerned, I'll only count some key projects. These are, for example, a project to build a bypass around Kragujevac, a section to the Moravia Corridor through the Martjevac. It is expected by the end of the year, more specifically to St. Nicole and the end of the highway Cačak – Požega, but also part from Požega to Bolar. The Chinese will also build a French corridor, but also a bypass around the Loznica and a bypass around Novi Sad. As far as the tours around Belgrade are concerned, the Chinese have already been engaged in this one share, and with the Russians, they are building a fast track to Belgrade – Novi Sad, which may be the biggest infrastructure project in the last 50 years in our country, because in less than half an hour we will be able to get to Novi Sad, which is a very important thing and the Chinese are helping us here. Of course, the stock will go from Belgrade to Novi Sad, a fast track, but later continues to Budapest. Another important Chinese investment, I'm talking about factories now, is certainly the new Mint factory, in Šapec, for the production of car parts, besides the already built plant in Loznica. The new Linglong plant in Zrenjanin, as well as the Sinj factory in Nis, will be launched, of course. All these investments are worth about a billion dollars. Also, the People's Republic of China will help us when it comes to collectors, but also wastewater treatment systems. That help is very important. Of course, another key project, perhaps not just for Belgrade, but for all of Serbia, which is the Belgrade subway. At the end of the year, construction of a Belgrade subway will begin in Makish. The French company will also help us, as well as the Chinese company with Chinese workers. We are aware that the People's Republic of China has, as well as the Republic of France, developed subway systems and we know that their, above all, expertise will help us build the subway here in Belgrade in a better and more efficient way. It's very important to me because I come from Chukarica and I'm very proud of it, and that's why I keep pointing out this very important project. I would like to conclude that Serbia remains on the European path. Serbia will also develop its relations with France, which, alongside Germany, is the EU leader. We will develop relations with the United States, but we as a sovereign country will develop relations with both the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China and the Arab countries and with all others who are willing to build a better future with us. I must point out that we have huge political support when it comes to the People's Republic of China and it is based not only on reciprocity, but also on brotherhood, I can say so, because they respect our sovereignty, our territorial integrity, and we respect that policy of strong China. Chinese investments saved Smedereva, saved Bor. The whole east of Serbia, and I can say all of the Republic of Serbia, because their factories have completely reborn the whole part of Serbia that has been neglected for years. Nothing was built there for years, nothing was invested. Thanks to Alexander Vukic, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to Chinese friends, the entire move of eastern Serbia is today very, very, very free to say, developed and we will never forget it. We will never betray our friends. We respect the People's Republic of China and I believe that our relations will be on an even bigger level, and that can certainly be summed up through some two key sentences, that Serbia and China are good friends, that our friendship is steely and that's another way to say it. I will say one way that the president of the People's Republic of China, Mr. Si Jinping, would say, but also our President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, who is known in China as "to go", which in the translation means 577. They would certainly say: ‘Zhóngguó hé séi’órwéiyay hó hóo péngyóu! ♪ Men de gāngti ♪ ♪ yóuy ♪ wánsu ♪ “ And then I’ll add what we’ll all understand, and that’s certainly: “Sài’rwéiyay woànsu! Zóngtóng Wíqíqí wánsu! “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5946	Thank you. I'm not sure how the girls who make the stenographic notes are gonna write down what you said. The word has a folk emissary, Nevena Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5947	We are today discussing three important agreements with the People's Republic of China, with the US and France, and with each of the countries mentioned above, fostering intensive co-operation and continued progress in partnership. Full Serbia's membership in the European Union is certainly one of the most important strategic foreign policy priorities, but on the other hand Serbia is trying to achieve as strong and successful co-operation as possible with all those countries that, like China and like the US and like France, have good and important projects for our country and our citizens, and so far, many successful projects have been implemented with those countries and many agreements have been reached. If we look only at co-operation with the People's Republic of China, which has been quite intense in the past five years and Serbia has increased exports to China 15 times over the last five years. On the other hand, China is the third overall foreign trade partner of the Republic of Serbia, which until just a few years ago was completely unimaginable. Relations between Serbia and China are based on genuine friendship, respect and solidarity, and certainly such relations are greatly contributed by the personal friendship that President Aleksandar Vukic has been fostering with the president of the People's Republic of China, and we were best able to see it on the case of vaccines, given that Serbia is one of the first countries in the world to receive protection from this monster. China on the one hand plays a significant role in this successful fight that Serbia has achieved so far, when we talk about the coronary virus, because you know that only a few days ago half a million doses arrived, another contingent of the Chinese vaccine "Sinofarm", which means that three million doses have arrived in Serbia from China. And they've been helping us continuously since the beginning, and when we talk about respirators and when we talk about professional staff, since they've been sending their people for both of our "Fire Eye" laboratories. On the other hand, they have a significant contribution to the recovery of our economy and a large part in infrastructure and traffic investments, as it is also part of the "Serbia 2020-2025" project, which will further enable Serbia to make rapid progress. I would point out that Chinese companies will also work on the Fruskogorski corridor, that they are already working on a fast track between Belgrade and Budapest. Chinese companies have also signed commercial contracts on the design and construction of sewage infrastructure and waste water treatment facilities in as many as 65 local self-governments, as well as projects on building infrastructure for the disposal of municipal solid waste. We see here today that we are creating a whole new Serbia. Serbia, where we live today, is far more advanced and successful than the one in which we lived until just a few years ago, and on the other hand, on the other hand, we see that Serbia will be far more successful than the one we live in today by 2025. I would like to note that Chinese companies with French and Serbian partners have also recently signed an agreement on the construction of the "Belgrade Metro" and are expected to begin these works at the end of this year and it is practically a dream of decade. Finally, the story of "Belgrade Metro" will no longer be just an empty story. You see, while Serbia led by Alexander Vukic is thinking about how to further develop, how to make our country progress as much as possible, how to keep that high position when we talk about our economy, how to be as successful as possible when we talk about the vaccination process, which is very successful and our vaccination process is being talked about everywhere in the world. I would only remind you once more that CNN recently praised this vaccination process. While we are fighting for it, the leaders of the former regime's opposition who have been taking care of themselves for years, and they don't take care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who deal with peering on social networks, even threats, have been calling for rematch, have been serving different machinations, so as not to make a point in both value and political terms, e, they have neutralized their own behaviour. It's not their fault, Alexander Wolf, or any of us in this room. The people said no to their politics and the people decided not to be here today. Of course, for them, the fundamental problem is that the truth is slowly being learned. Well, it was also found out about these numerous accounts in the white world, although, I say, everything was well organized, planned, so that the harder it could be traced. It was all in one good, in their opinion a good way of camouflaged. Instead of going out and explaining to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia how and how much money he gained while he was in responsible positions in the country, because you know, it's no problem to own that kind of money, but that money didn't own him at the time of his entry into that important position in the country, but that's why he owned it the moment the people drove him out of that position. He was so rich while the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were poor. On the other hand, we are witnessing numerous false news that is being placed just by Dragan Gilas, when we talk about the most important and important topics, such as vaccination. As much as there is something in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in their opinion it is better somehow. Such kabadija and thieves, both like Dragan Dilas and like Vuk Jeremic and like Boris Tadic, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will never forget. They won't forget how they lived during the time they were harassing Serbia. I have to remind everyone that recently the Wolf of Jeremic called us people's ambassadors a bunch of thugs. He forgot about one key fact, the essential thing, that we are MPs, that we are legitimately elected representatives of citizens. And it has long been clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what he has regard for both the Serbian people and all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They always answer nicely, since we need to know that the only true truth is the will of the people. If they had done anything, not only would the people have defined themselves to be here with us today in this room, but they would have come out before the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with some concrete plan and programme, and the purpose of their policy would not be to discredit in every way what President Aleksandar Vukic is doing in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You see that the period until 2012, that this period has been marked by politicians who have a number of secret accounts, who have become unfeelingly rich and boasted, and today the policy that is being designed and run by Aleksandar Vukic, makes us as successful as possible when it comes to economics, to be as successful as possible when we talk about the vaccination process, to provide the best conditions for the life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that our citizens have a better standard of living. In that sense, I think all these agreements that we are talking about today will contribute greatly, so I, and I firmly believe my fellow MPs, will support these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5948	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5949	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, Mrs Atanaskovic, we have today a set of very important draft laws and agreements, and I would personally refer to exactly one, we can say, a great dream that the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia have long dreamed and want to become public, and that is certainly the Belgrade Metro. To be more precise, we are talking about an annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, which concerns co-operation in the area of implementing priority projects in the Republic of Serbia. The reminders work, under Article 2. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France, which we have already adopted, is the point – the priority forms of co-operation, namely the Phase 1 project "Belgrade Metro". It is an extremely important project for Belgrade and Serbia, which will contribute to modernising the capital but also relieve the crowds in the capital that have become the nightmares of all Belgraders. We, believe it or not, have reached a figure of nearly 650,000 cars in the capital. We've come into a situation where we have almost two cars per family in Belgrade. So our traffic infrastructure isn't able to handle so many vehicles, but on the other hand, crowds are characteristics of large metropolises, so it's in Rome, so it's in Moscow, so it's in Paris. It's obvious there's a problem. If you go out on the street today and ask any Belgrader -- what's the biggest problem in town, you'll get the same answer -- it's traffic jams. Belgrade is a large city that is unofficially around, taking into account a large number of Serbian refugees from Croatia, BiH, as well as expelled persons from KIM, students and people listed in their permanent residences, and living or working in Belgrade, potentially crosses two million. Nowhere in the world will you see that the city of that size for the basic public transport subsystem has buses, but the rails, and that is why we need to work fast on building the subway. It's a prerequisite for us to start solving traffic problems. Also, I have to agree with the President of the Republic, who says that building a subway is not only a way to solve traffic jams, but it is a matter of prestige and the strength of a city, but also of the state. Believe it or not, the construction of a Belgrade subway has been promising since 1971, so for almost 50 years and since then it has remained a dead letter on paper and no one has done anything more concrete on this issue except this topic. Thanks to our country's responsible policy, we are now close to building this key infrastructure project. France's Ezis under a contract with the city of Belgrade has completed a general project and a previous justification study detailing the first two lines of Belgrade's subway. This project adopted the lines of lines one, which will connect Železnik and Mirijevo, 21.3 kilometers long with 23 stations, and line two, of course, prefers me, because I am from Zemun, which will connect the train station Zemun and Mirijevo, 19.2 kilometers long with 20 stations. Construction will take place in three stages. The first phase, the construction will cover part of the first line from the Maquis field to Karaburma in the length of 16.5km, in the second phase, will be built part of the second line from Mirieva to the municipality of Novi Belgrade, which will cross the Tsvetkova market, Slavija, as well as the Sava Square. Finally, both lines, the first from Karaburma to Miriev, and the second from the municipality of Novi Belgrade to Zemun, will be extended in the third phase. The agreement envisions a project called Belgrade Metro for a maximum amount of 454m euros and an additional 127m euros for a project to automise a medium voltage power grid, with Annex of this agreement being introduced instead of the company Elektroprivreda Serbia. So, in addition to the crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, we continue to invest in large infrastructure projects, which are vital to our citizens. We continue to invest in the quality of our citizens' lives, work on attracting new investments, work on growth and pensions, and, most importantly, we do not give up on the promises we made to the citizens in the pre-election campaign, and that is where the construction of the Belgrade subway is now. Dear citizens, many did not believe that we would make fun of the so-called mockery. Sitia charts make a new centre, a new jewel of Belgrade, so I know that from various political frauds and ignorants you will hear that neither of this long-awaited project, there is anything from the Belgrade subway, but be sure that our country, our government, our president, will do everything to keep the word given and build the metro for the citizens. I'm proving this my finding is exactly this agreement. Also, on the other hand, as a member of the United States' parliamentary group of friendships, I cannot mention and praise the agreement on encouraging investments between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the United States government. This agreement is of enormous importance to our country's economic development, encourages the growth rate and confirms that the Washington Agreement, as far as the Serbian side is concerned, continues to apply. This agreement shows that Serbia is a safe and attractive destination for investors, i.e. the United States has great confidence in Serbia's economic development. Seeing the importance of these agreements, I will personally, and hopefully my colleagues, support them in the hope that they will be the basis for a strong, modern and healthier Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5950	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5951	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual recognition of the AEO Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Credit Management Programme of the General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China. Namely, the point of this agreement is to make use of relief from customs controls. For this agreement, it is not necessary to allocate funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and as far as China is concerned, China is one of my favorite countries and I am in friendship with the People's Republic of China, and the group of friendships with the People's Republic of China numbers 126 MPs, which means that the second largest group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. About China all the best. China is a traditional friend of the Republic of Serbia. However, it seems to me that since 2012, the Prime Minister, present-day President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic, has strengthened this steel friendship. We have great respect for China, the relationship of friendship, and the great partnership. We have strengthened this strategic partnership and we are the main partners of the People's Republic of China, as far as the project "The Belt and the Road" is concerned, but also partners in China's co-operation mechanism CS 17+1. As far as the People's Republic is concerned, it is the world's leading economy, and the Republic of Serbia, as an independent and unclassified country, has friends in both the east and the west. China is one of the largest in the east. As far as China is concerned, as many times has been checked, a standard good friend when it was the hardest in the life of the Republic of Serbia, which is when the pandemic, i.e. Kovid-19, appeared, China immediately sent its expert team to the Republic of Serbia. It was March 21st, 82 days old by an expert team in the Republic of Serbia, educated everything that could have been educated in the Republic of Serbia from doctors, medical staff, to protect ourselves from this disease. They have crossed 20,000 kilometers across the Republic of Serbia, and I am, not only me, but everyone in this House is very grateful to the Republic of China for that. China and Serbia signed an agreement on joint construction of a laboratory on April 8th, if you remember, "Fire Eye" in Nis. However, a day, two later, a new laboratory was created in Belgrade as well. Then, on March 21st, a huge amount of assistance arrived with experts to protect not only doctors, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from respirators, through suits and others. During the night of March 21st and 22nd, 2020, if you remember, all monuments of importance in the Republic of Serbia were marked red in gratitude to the People's Republic of China for the help it gives us whenever we need them. The Ministry of Public Security, the National Liberation Army donated Serbia's equipment and materials to the MUP for the prevention of the pandemic, also Kovida-19. Chinese companies are building a fast track to Belgrade-Budapest. Also, Chinese companies are building a highway from Preljina to Požega. Let's just think of the revitalization of the huge giant "Smederevo Iron" where 5,000 people used to work, and then it was completely devastated. When the Chinese partners came, it was one of the most powerful factories currently in the Republic of Serbia. He brought the city back to life. There are 5,032 people, and the average salary is 73,000 dinars. Also, a mine in Bor, which was completely devastated, is revitalised and is one of the best exporters currently, next to "Smederevo Irons". The average salary is 83,000. That's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia does, thanks to these wonderful people from the People's Republic of China. Chinese companies are also building a fast traffic station Iverak-Lajkovac and I could do this a lot more, but I just have a few more things to say. They revitalised "The Iron," that's what I said. They opened the "Huavei Center" for Innovation, Digital Development and 5G Network, Tesla Labs and many things. Always, but always for everyone in my life, if I can help, I, my friends, the People's Republic of China, because a proven friend of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for your attention, because I'm not the only one here. My next colleague is waiting. I will vote in favour of this agreement and any agreement concerning the People's Republic of China and not only the People's Republic of China, but all agreements, because that just means strengthening the bilateral agreements of the Republic of Serbia with other countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5952	I thank the MP Ljiljana Malusic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5953	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try in the next few minutes to say a part of what I had in mind. Great projects that are ahead of us require a lot of effort, a lot of knowledge, and on that path, it will be important for us to have enough knowledge, enough expertise. I wanted to talk about the money, but the finance minister left me, I don't want to talk about it. I'm going to say one more thing about what's important here. The factors that need to be implemented are important, and these are businesses. When it comes to knowledge, we have a big problem that this knowledge is not well distributed. People with little knowledge are arrogant, ossions and they think they know everything and that they can do anything, it's a feature of those who don't have knowledge. Smart people, people with knowledge are aware of how much they don't know, and that's why they try to do what they know and get more and more knowledge. Who's going to have to take responsibility for this project? Well, it'll have to be companies. The company is the basic factor of every economy. I'm glad there's a fellow minister, and she'll have the pain and the great task of bringing these companies back to life. We had very strong, good, successful companies that fought around the world and proudly represented our country. Today the situation is that many of these companies have been destroyed, I must say. Minister's colleagues, it is up to you to help these capable, professional people with their knowledge, with the help of the state to regain strength and to be what they were in the former country and in the past. It won't be easy for you. I'll try to help you. On this occasion, I won't thank you in the end, but I'll come over here and give you a book. Gilbert Kenig wrote the book "There will be enterprises". I believe that this book will help you at least a little bit, despite your expertise, here you will find another bit of knowledge, and use it and I thank you in advance. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5954	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? If not, I conclude a joint and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 11 to 13 of the agenda. Dear People's MPs, as the Honorable President of the National Assembly has announced to you, today we will not have a break between 14:00 and 15.00, but we will continue to work. We are continuing to discuss amendments to points 5) and 6) of the current agenda, and the vote is expected between 16:00 and 17.00 due to the dialogue. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. Fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Act on the Income of Citizens I would like to inform you of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance; Angelka Atanaskovic, Minister of Industry; Slavica Savičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Dragana Demirovic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Svetlana Kuzmanovic-Zivanovic, Head of the Department of Finance. I thank Minister Atanaskovic for his presence, which arrived on time. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the income tax of citizens. You have received amendments submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5955	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Atanakovic, with his associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am reporting by amendments to the Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, where Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states: The draft law in the position of the first word: ‘30. In September 2021, they replace the words ‘31. December 2021" and in the position of three percent of 43% is replaced by a percentage of 50. This amendment proposes an extension of the time limit in the sense that tax treatment refers to revenue achieved from 1 January 2015, ending on 31 December 2021, instead of 30 September 2021. This law will regulate the equal treatment of domestic natural persons working in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for a foreign employer, i.e. the procuring officer, so that the deadline should be extended to 31 December 2021, in order to enable the persons who make the income from the foreign payers to be arranged in a comprehensive manner. To that end, a change in the level of normable costs is also proposed from 43% to 50%. The amendment to the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Contribution of Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance is also linked to amendments to the Amendments to the Amendments to the Amendments Act of the Law on Income Taxation of Citizens where Article 64c is added) where contributions are said to be made to persons who, in the period from 01.01.2015 to 31.12.2021, result in a contracted fee from a person who is not subject to an obligation to charge and pay a contribution, shall be determined by the tax authority and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the income tax of citizens, which shall be paid only by taxation paid in that period. I have to say for other sets of financial laws. When it comes to the proposals for laws that apply and which we considered last week on guarantee schemes, that given the uncertainty that exists worldwide, as well as economic and financial challenges, a continuation of the measures taken, aimed at increasing the liquidity of economic operators, was necessary. The continuation of these measures will allow for the mitigation of the economic and financial consequences of the pandemic and its impact on the liquidity of economic operators. When it comes to the first existing two-billion-euro guarantee scheme, more 500m euros have been provided for businesses and an extended period of availability for a year. Just to point out that the expansion of existing guarantee schemes does not change the conditions of similarity, so that all entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that meet the legal requirements, can apply to loans that have a guarantee from the State in accordance with the First Guarantee Scheme Act. Through Serbia's second guarantee scheme, another 500m euros has been provided for the country's most vulnerable sectors and companies. The law regulates the issue of other guarantee schemes is intended primarily for the most endangered activities such as hospitality, transport, hotels in cities and tourist agencies, as well as for the most vulnerable companies that recorded the decline in business incomes above 20% in 2020. The State undertakes to settle bank claims as a guarantee, based on approved loans from liquidity finance banks and crafts assets for crediting the economy, along with the full NBS control mechanism to implement this measure. This enables uninterrupted lending of the most vulnerable segment of the domestic economy, whose liquidity is most significantly threatened by the consequences of the pandemic. I have to say to our citizens that this third aid package, the first two packages that were in April and September 2020, amounted to 704 billion dinars, and this package is 257 billion dinars. Our country will not be a problem to finance this third package because we currently have 259 billion dinars in the account, but it will certainly cover a part with cheap borrowing on the financial market because money is still cheap on the financial market. The overall aid of the Serbian state headed by President Aleksandar Vukic at the time of the pandemic is 8 billion euros or 17.2% of GDP. Never, but in the last 30 years, there has never been a higher capital budget for our country of 430 billion dinars. I'm going to give you an example, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that in 2010, the percentage of the share of capital investment in GDP was 3.1%, and in 2013, 2% fell, then 4.9% in 2019, and with this rebalance of the budget, investment is participating with as much as 7.2% of GDP. Four highways are currently being built and four more highways are being provided. New hospitals, vaccine factory, Metro and others. In eight years, from 2012 to 2020, we built more kilometers of highways than was built in the last half century. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the unemployment rate in 2019 was 10.4%, 2020 is single-digit and 9%. We've got a real growth rate of 7.7%, and a nominal of 9.4. We have a stable course all the time, and also stable inflation, which is very important. The net inflow of foreign direct investment is 2.9 billion euros in 2020, and the net inflow of foreign direct investments also in 2020 in the region covering Northern Macedonia, BiH, Albania, Montenegro, totalled 1.7 billion, which means we had almost twice as many as the countries in the region. Public debt relative to GDP will not exceed 60% with all budget measures and rebalances, which is the level of Mastricht. Look, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, other countries Germany has a debt of 80% of GDP, Montenegro over 100%, and not to talk further about Greece, France, Spain. I have to look back at the yellow exotic tycoon octopus headed by Dragan Gilas and just compare their indicators to the current indicators. Capital investment in 2010 was 3.1% of GDP, and today it is a record 7.2% of GDP participation. Then, the unemployment rate in 2012 was 24.6%, and today it is single-digit and is 9%. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute from 2008 to 2012, 400,000 jobs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, were lost. The net inflow of foreign direct investment in 2012 was 453m euros, and today in 2020 is 2.9 billion euros. Also, the average salary in 2012 was 360 euros, and today it is 540 euros with a growth trend. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, based only on these four economic indicators, we have shown you who they were and how they worked, and how we are working with President Aleksandr Vukic for the future of our children. Only in the end to look back on the evaluation and opinion of the Fiscal Council on the budget rebalance proposal. I can say that we in SNS don't look at people as just some multipliers and how much money they're going to pay back to the budget, but the state wanted to help all of our country's citizens and to make citizens feel that their country is strong and stable and with them when it's the hardest. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5956	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5957	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, collecting taxes is like pulling honey out of a hive. When you do that, you have to take out as much as you can so that there's something left for the bees to eat. In one bee society, there are about 60,000 bees. Two thousand drones arrive at 60,000 bees. So, on 30 drones, one drone comes in. The society and the state that we found completely devastated almost that the worker bee wasn't even there, the business activity and the workers were gone. So in their hive, if that's how we represent the state, there was almost no worker bees in their hive. Except for the drones and the great bumblebee Gilas, there was nothing else. They picked up all the honey, put it in their pockets, and left us with problems. They're attacking us today because we're solving the faster problems they left behind. If they hadn't fired 400,000 workers before, the question is, how would they hire me 320 grand? They think we hired these people because of them. Like, if we hadn't fired them, who would you have hired? Also, on the matter of taxes. Taxes are funded by the Army. If it hadn't been for Boris Tadic, Sutanovci, Vuk Jeremic, etc. The question is, did you arm my army today? If they hadn't made a well-armed army so we could create a well-armed army, if that army had a weapon, if we had found it militaryly ready? So, this army wasn't military neutral in their time, this army was militaryly neutralized. If Sutanovac, Tadic, Jeremic had not melted all the tanks, how would we get from Russia a new tank now? If they hadn't left us just one broken-down MiG without a battery or one battery, how would they have restored our air force, etc? Then where did we get the whole squadron? We wouldn't have gotten it if they hadn't made it happen. The roads are built, the infrastructure is built out of revenue from the budget, not just from credits like they did, as they tried to make highways famous from field to field with clay content. The binding asphalt material was clay for them, and what they had paved up, we had to do again. If it wasn't for them, we would have done as much as we had to do. The way we hired 320,000 people, we filled the pension funds. Pensions are no longer doped by 50, 54% from the state budget, but between 20% and 30%, which is acceptable. They had three, four pensioners. Today there are more employees in the economy and in the public sector than there are pensioners and a sustainable system has been created than it was before. If it hadn't been for the new employees, if it hadn't been for the new business activity, if it hadn't been for production, I would have asked you -- where would we have allocated 500m euros for the agricultural budget? Our farmers need to know that the agrarian budget is 500m euros and that it is not the money that is printed without any cover but that it is the money behind which production is not only agricultural, not just the processing industry. That money was taken from taxpayers, and taxpayers are those people who deal, the biggest taxpayers are the ones who deal with production. The Agrarian budget of 500 million, we dreamed of it, but I am one of those who advocated that the agrarian budget be one billion euros, but not to exceed 5% of the Serbian budget, which means that the Serbian budget is increasing, while taxes are not increasing and we are coming through production to a larger budget, to a stronger state, to a stronger army, to more money for culture, to more money for education. Education is very important because it's a fortune, knowledge is a wealth that follows its owner everywhere. Foreign investment has helped us, and let's say I am one of the creators of an industrial zone in India. I began to build it in 2001, and in 2007, when the infrastructure was brought in, I was well-wrought by the yellow ones in the water management building. I was no longer needed, but today this industrial zone in India gives more exports than the whole of Montenegro. So at this point, for example, the export of Groups seems to me to be 120m euros, mostly IGBs, etc., agricultural exports. At this point, India is making exports that are flat, if not larger exports of the entire state of Montenegro. A new investment called "Tojo" worth 380, 390m euros arrives. The state has singled out 41m to 43m euros for it, I'm not sure about the figure, for 560 new employees. In Indjija, as in the whole of Srem, Mr. Martinovic can confirm and in Ruma is low unemployment, in India unemployment is 3.7%. There are those unfortunate people who have brought economic activity in the country to zero, who say -- we have given 73,000 euros per job. I say that's not true. Although the state of Indjiji has helped with 40m euros to make the investment of Tojo, which is the daughter of the company "Micubishija", to position itself in an industrial zone that has the capacity of three thousand hectares, which is limited by the international railway for Budapest, which is limited by the highway to Budapest, which is limited by an old and new road to Subotica. So, an attractive industrial zone at the moment has received this investment, Tojo, which will produce five million tyres annually, totaling 250m euros and will end up in exports. So exports from India, from business activity in the state of Serbia, will be 50% higher than total exports from the state of Montenegro. That's what we've been dealing with in the past. The 70 and some thousand euros per future employee seems a lot, but those who attack us, our attackers, the 70s and some thousand euros forget that the state of Serbia did not do so, then the investment would not be in India, but would already be in Poland's Gdanjsk. So, giving incentives helped not to be in Poland, but to be in Serbia, and to make Serbian exports bigger, that the number of employees, although India has no unemployment problem, can be further increased in India and that some labour force that lives near India, say in the suburbs of Batajnica, the suburbs of Novi Sad can come to jobs because the highway guarantees that this industrial zone and the fast track that restricts that industrial zone can guarantee that in 15 to 20 minutes you can reach the industrial zone to get there. Most of these city employees will be made up of engineers and high-expert labour who will have high personal incomes that will contribute to pensions, that healthcare be financed from economic activity, that it will not be from foreign loans and foreign loans, as was the case for increasing pensions in some previous period during some previous government. The attackers should know that the 390m-euro investment in the construction and supply of equipment, as it will be a domestic firm founded by Japanese, means 20% of the 390m euros it is, that is, 78m euros. If the state gave 41m euros to 43, I don't know exactly the number, it will earn 70m euros and some million euros through the construction and import of materials, equipment. Basically, we gave the foreign investor the privileges that guarantee us that in the construction and installation phase we will almost double our income in the Republic of Serbia's budget than we have, but our attackers, the former government that left workers without pay, dignity, jobs, military without weapons, money-free culture, pensioners without pensions, the whole state was almost a social case, today they have big objections to our work, not saying that they would do something better, but launch an affair for an affair and not even compete for voters to say -- we're going to open even more factories, even more jobs. About Gilas says that he will have thousands of euros just like that, and he does not speak at all through which production he would organize, and his production has always been the production of imagination and illusion, finely chopped fog and commercial reselling, where he looks like a cattle merchant who buys advertising space at one price, like in a market when you buy cattle at one price, and then take it to another market, and then sell it at a higher price, install. So, by selling ads that weren't from his media, but from other media, by abuse of their function, by combining public function with private business. He allegedly made some business, in fact he took that money from the media and left journalists with low wages, because by taking part of the proceeds from marketing, you have actually reduced the revenues of companies, or media, companies dealing with the media, which print, broadcast or are media service providers in electronic form. So that capital of his was not from any production. It was a sale of imagination and illusion, cut through the fog and sold for expensive money to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Adi Bridge, which is four times more than the projected value, serves mainly for painting the bride and groom, as I see it, brings together two local communities in Belgrade. In order to be functional, it seems that it must be singled out for tunnels etc., even more money than is invested in the bridge itself. Today, we have such critics who have almost relaxed Serbia. They made a state-decomposed aviary, a house of naked walls, and now we who have an obligation to solve all their problems, we have some criticism and criticism, if it's from production, we have to realistically assess, but there are no such criticisms, because we would be grateful, not for the praises, but for the criticisms if they are founded in reality. Let me say, quote at the end of Gete. I want this country to have more, but Gete says – in order to have more, we need to be something more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5958	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5959	Dear Chairman, Mr. Orlic, I would like to point out that, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that we will, of course, support these amendments. We must point out that these amendments and the full discussion that has been conducted today in parliament show only that MPs are ready to discuss each issue thoroughly and that each topic is being devoted seriously and that it only illustrates the desire of all of us here to work primarily in the interests of the Serbian citizens, to work in the interests of the citizens who voted for us, but also in the interest of citizens who voted for another option or perhaps have not gone to the elections at all. It does not matter to us, but it is important that our country continues to develop, improve life in it and make life easier for citizens wherever they live. I think that even last week when we talked about a set of financial laws, we had a clear opportunity to hear from this place and to send a clear message to our citizens that today's economy is at an envious level and that it has never been more stable, that our finances are constantly growing and that this reflects primarily on the growth of wages and pensions that are most important to the citizens, because as they say themselves, it's all nice, but until we see in our wallet it's just a number on paper or a letter on paper. I think that in the last few years we have made a clear step towards the economy and perhaps only now when we look back at the period since 2012 and 2013, we can see how important those painful reforms that we've implemented in 2014 and how much Serbia's President, Mr Alexander Vucic, was right, but also bravely when he decided to get into that one fight so that our finances would stabilise and enable the future, above all our children and generations to come I think it would be unfair, so that whenever we talk about some financial law or anything related to finance, we don't look at any concrete results or indicators that we can measure the success of this government or any previous one. If today we are a country that can freely boast that we have the smallest drop in GDP in Europe, which is all by 1%, if we can also boast that in 2020, which was disastrous for the whole world, because this crown crisis could not be predicted, we also had an increased number of jobs in the sense that in 2019 we had an unemployment rate of 10.4%, while in 2020 that percentage was about 9%. This just shows that everything we're talking about, as well as direct foreign investment, the opening of factories, new businesses, is clearly showing these figures, for the simple reason why you see how many new people are employed and how this unemployment is falling. This also allows young people who study today or today want to perfect themselves in our country to see the future and see the perspective, which, unfortunately, was not the case until some 2012 and 2013, because everything was gray and dark, because the average profit then was, depending on where you work, from 15,000 to 20,000 dinars. Unfortunately, the people who represented our country at the time and who were in the leading places, whether the positions of mayors, ministers, the Prime Minister or the State, brought our country to ruin. This regime of the Democratic Party will remain, I may say, in black letters written in the lives of all of us, because many of us's parents fought for a piece of bread back then. The parents of many of us stayed on the street because, I'll remind you, just those scandalous privatizations and other blurry actions that were happening back then, over half a million people remained on the street. Instead of moving forward with Europe and the world, developing, opening up factories, opening up new companies that would enable new jobs, we were closing down, leaving people out of work, and thus sending a clear message to generations who were then saying they had nothing to look for in Serbia, that they had no perspective here. With the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party in power, the situation has changed dramatically, in the first few years. We must also take this opportunity to thank our oldest citizens who have endured the greatest part of that burden, these economic reforms that have been implemented in 2014, but all this has been an investment in the future, investment in what we have today. That is why today our salaries and pensions are stable, they are paid out of real foundations, not out of credit, as they were during the Democratic Party regime. All this data must always be noted just in order for citizens to always keep in mind, to know what kind of scenario we would be welcomed if the regime of the Democratic Party had lasted another year. So, we've been on the verge of failure, on the verge of bankruptcy, wages and pensions being paid out of credit, everyone knows that, and from that borrowing, from credit to credit, something that would wait for us over a year for their government de facto would be bankruptcy and a situation where our oldest citizens wouldn't have any pensions to pay. As many times as this is happening again, I don't think it's enough, because somehow we as citizens of Serbia don't always see a full picture of what's happening to us and somehow everything happens to us. We also kind of quickly went over the whole situation, that from the weakest economy in our country, from one of the poorest countries in Europe, I didn't want to use any other term, not to be wrong or wrong, but we came from the poorest country in Europe to the strongest economy and the fastest growing economy in Europe. All relevant institutions in Europe also show this. You have an interest and an institution in the world that clearly shows you how much we appreciate our progress and how much our economy appreciates. For the sake of comparison, three of the largest rating agencies have, in addition to this crisis, maintained the same level as our country and the credit rating, while Moody's even increased by one level. So, if we talk about it from the point of view of the crown of crisis and everything that's going on, I think this way you can see how much the government is doing, the next policy of President Alexander Vukic, well and quality, and how much this reflects in general on the standard and life of our citizens. Also, I want to point out another very important thing that continues on to this whole exhibit of mine, which is the fact that we for this first quarter have predicted a deficit of 80.9 billion dinars, and that we have achieved out of only 23.5 billion dinars. This clearly shows how stable we are and financially strong and our economic policy is how powerful and stable it is. If you take any more information that we have increased pensions by 5.9% in the Swiss model this year, that we have increased minimum earnings by 6.6%, that public sector salaries have increased by 5%, with the right of people in Europe and the world to congratulate us on these successes, because if you turn around and look at countries in the nearest environment or other countries in the EU, they currently have a struggle for each job and a large number of people remain unemployed, he remained on the street. Unfortunately, this corona crisis has shaken them much more deeply and the consequences will only come in the coming period. We can be proud and happy because we do not have such a situation in our country, for the simple reason that we have responded adequately, quickly and efficiently when the coronary crisis has occurred, but also because every dinar in our budget is being taken care of and the domestic business is being done. Previous fellow speakers have mentioned very important things, and they concern investment in infrastructure. I think the very fact that even eight highways are going to be built in our country this year clearly shows how ready we are to continue to develop our country, in addition to everything that is going on globally and in the world. We can be proud of the fact that, in addition to fighting the crown crisis, we are fighting for every vaccine, we continue to fight for every kilometer of the new highway, that we have continued to develop the road network, that we have continued to develop both the water and the sewerage, and that with the 2025 we are fulfilling that promise made by President Aleksandar Vukic, which is that in 2025 Serbia will look drastically different. Unfortunately, we've been able to, even though I live in Belgrade and I was born here, many parts of our city, my city, have no sewers. Unfortunately, people who claim to return to power today have had a lot of time and a lot of opportunities to do something, not just for Belgrade, but for Serbia. Unfortunately, they only used that time to create their own business empires and make themselves multimillionaires. It is unfortunate that today's worst mayor in history, Dragan Gilas, tells people and holds a letter so that he can do all the better, and 30% of Belgrade's city has left out of sewers. It is also sad that my colleagues who come from other cities across Serbia tell me – well, it has never been difficult for you in Belgrade, you have arranged schools. Unfortunately, I also had to discuss with them that until a year ago we had primary schools in which the Polish toilet was used, in the city of Belgrade. If Dragan Djilas was unable to take over the city of Belgrade, under the full power of the Democratic Party regime, the citizens rightly wonder what we could expect from the Democratic Party by the interior of Serbia. So what is happening today in our country is a positive example and a clear indicator when you care about the work you do, but when you care about Serbia and Serbian citizens above all else, you can do anything and have time to think about every citizen. The basic prerequisite for you to keep all these things and to turn word promises into deeds is to take care of finances and to take care of each dinar as you will and in any way you invest. Unfortunately, we were marked by the time of 2012/2013. In the year when the self-proclaimed elite took care of where some dinar and euro of state money, Serbian citizens pump, pump into their private firms, and thus make an additional fortune. If you just consider that in this way in a dramatic conflict of interest, therefore, Dragan Gilas was the mayor of Belgrade at the time, many people forget it, his private firms also traded with Studio B, which is city television, but also with RTS, which is state television. So his private companies traded for seconds on those TVs and that's how he held the monopoly. He later reselled those seconds at a much higher price, a much higher price, users of advertising space, and thus gained a clean profit. When citizens of Serbia rightly wonder how this of 74,000 euros of failed entrepreneurs and window washers, a failed gum seller, as he represented himself at one point, comes to an empire of more than 20 and something to the firm, 25m euros in real estate only and 619m euros in secure income to his private firms, no one can give a reasonable answer and a reasonable explanation. Eight years ago, as one of the previous speakers, a fellow MPs said, it is not a problem if you have become rich and become rich in politics, if you have become legally rich, but as you have come in just eight years of politics to such an enormous wealth, you owe the question to the citizens of Serbia. I am happy that the competent institutions have finally begun to deal with this issue, and what has been fuelled by this affair that surfaced almost a month ago, which clearly shows that in more than 17 countries over 53 accounts Dragan Gilas has 68m euros. I'm glad the citizens finally feel some satisfaction that the issue is being raised and that they're finally going to get an answer to how that becomes so rich in eight years. During today, we have touched on various topics, we have also touched on agreements that are essential to our country, but in order for citizens to see it more plasticly, benefit than all these agreements that we have talked about today will have citizens of Serbia, because each of these agreements carries with it a special weight. It's not just a letter on paper, it's not just proof of good co-operation between Serbia and China, Serbia and America or Serbia and France in these examples, this is a clear indication that all these countries see in Serbia a clear, good, correct partner and see Serbia as a country in which they will be useful to invest in a country where they trust. You know, as Mr. Sinisha Mali said, do you think America would play with the money of its foundation, would you give so cheaply, or would you gamble with your credibility, if the money of your foundation were to invest in a country that is not stable and that won't spend that money properly? I think what we heard today is a great reason for optimism for Serbian citizens. If we are to continue to develop our country further, we must all, whether as a Parliament, whether as representatives of the Government, whether as any official in our country paid by citizens, we must deal all day with how we will make them better, but also make life easier in our country. Speaking of agreements, I just need to get through them quickly, because they're leaning on all these financial aspects. So, the first agreement with the People's Republic of China, I think it's too much to say if we don't start by saying that the coronary virus has shown how strong our steel friendship is and how strong this friendship is, above all, on a personal level between President Alexander Vukic and President Si Jinping. Remember, when all of this started, we got first aid right from China, and their experts came here and helped our experts to fight some unknown coronary virus and that their every advice and every help we had was like dry gold at that time. You can see that this co-operation continues today. Let's not talk about Jellyzara, not to mention RTB "Bore", not to mention that our Chinese partners are taking part in road construction with us, not to mention that every Chinese firm together is building and promoting life in our country. But, unfortunately, as I was able to speak yesterday, you have one part of the opposition politicians who, only because of their naked hatred for Alexander Vukic, are not outsmarting anything, nor are they insulting people in the highest state functions in foreign countries. I'll remind you myself, yesterday I was talking about that in his corruption interview, Dragan Gilas accused both China and France, so I named Emanuel Macron and Erdogan and Turkey, as well as America. Why? For the simple reason that he imagined, I guess, starting with himself and his personal perceptions, how he did it while he was in power, that anyone who patted him on the shoulder with him was some kind of business. This may have been the case, not perhaps, that would have been the case in these accounts by 2012 and 2013, but times had changed. Unfortunately, our Chinese friends were rightly offended by this statement, as no one has the right to muddle anyone in such a way just to collect a cheap political point or perhaps to cast a shadow on all the results achieved by both the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic. When I talk about it, this is very important, for the simple reason that Gilas, along with his party comrades, laughed at the power of China, which was mocked by both the Chinese vaccine and the Russian vaccine, and then he realized more quickly and more quickly that it was necessary to vaccinate, so he went in line and vaccinated, and then hypocritically declared that he didn't mean it and that the vaccine was still a rescue. But more painful than all of this is the fact that the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United States is something that emerged as a result of the Washington Agreement. I mentioned this a little while ago, so it's about $400 million of the first guarantee scheme, something that clearly shows that this money is coming, that it will be available, it seems to me that the minister has said over a month or two days, that in this way we will once again show to everyone in the world how suitable we are, how strong our economy is, is stable, and it gives a completely different picture of our country. It's not just $400 million anymore. This is about a changed picture of Serbia on a global scale. This is a pride to all of us, and I think that in the coming period we will also have a large number of such agreements, from which the signing will be directly beneficial, again, for the citizens of Serbia. Dragan Gilasu was also distracted by the fact that the US firm would work on building a highway, so he also accused them directly of some kind of corruption, which is unclear to anyone. I see he didn't make an apology yesterday, nor did he file a criminal complaint. What is, and with this I will complete my presentation, for me as someone who comes from Belgrade is very important, and as regards the agreement with France, with the Government of France, so on two issues that are of priority in our country. I'll just focus on one thing, and that's the subway. Directly because of the co-operation and agreement that Serbia and France have on the construction of the subway, Dragan Gilas gave a direct name and a last name to the president, Emanuel Makron. The colleagues who are older than me and more experienced will certainly recognize one species in this, if we can call it that, diplomatic scandal, which is unremembered, unseen, and all for the simple reason that building the subway is another indicator of how incompetent he was when he was in power and don't, citizens, to fool you, to throw dust in your eyes, as he did two years ago when he lied that he had never promised the subway before. In 2008, he came out with a project to build the subway in two years. When that promise was not fulfilled, when of course he lied, then he went out and said in 2010 – well, that was a little too fast on my part, but here, believe me, in 2012 we start building the subways. In 2013, he was still in power, until he was removed from the mayor's post, he did nothing on the issue. Everything's left on some paper, some plans, and the subway is just one in a series of indicators how incompetent that man was. The responsible SNS policy, and above all President Aleksandr Vukic is made up of real promises and real plans that are real. We made that promise to the citizens and to Belgrade, but not only Belgrade, but also Serbia, because building the subway will completely change the picture of our city and our country, but we will keep that promise. As you know, this agreement makes it clear that by the end of this year, we will begin to build the first line of the metro, and that in this way we will once again show that what President Aleksandar Vukic says, he promises to turn his citizens from word to deed. I think all of this that I've discussed today and what my fellow MPs have been discussing these days and what citizens have been able to hear from us shows, and I'm going to end up with only one thing, which is that the SNS didn't come to power to make individuals or individuals rich and create business empires, as it was in the case of the DS regime. The Serbian Progressive Party has come to power to change our country for the better and to provide better and even better conditions for life for all citizens and generations to come. Finally, as I would say, I am convinced that citizens from day to day see the results of our policy and our fight for a better tomorrow, and I am convinced that the first subsequent elections will show that only SNS will fulfill what it promises and that the only SNS headed by President Aleksandra Vukic is a guarantee of an even more beautiful and brighter future for all children, for all generations to come. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5960	Thank you. On Article 7 of the amendment, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5961	Dear Vice President, Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Atanaskovic, with associates, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, fully agrees with what my colleagues from the parliamentary group said and Mr. Boskovic and Risticevic and Mirkovic, and as far as the proposed laws and amendments are concerned. What makes me happy is that we are also witnessing today how much the state of Serbia cares about citizens, cares about the economy, so I just want to share with the citizens one piece of information that by 13.00 today over a million citizens have already applied for aid from the country 30 plus 30 euros. Then we have another good news that today the works on the construction of the Kovid hospital in Novi Sad, where President Aleksandar Vukic attended. So, in times of crisis and times of fighting the crown of the virus, Serbia is helping its economy, Serbia is helping citizens, Serbia is building hospitals, building a covid hospital, and rarely, which the country in Europe can boast is helping both its people and its economy, which is significantly in the good part of EU countries, I cannot say destroyed, but significantly weakened by the root of the virus. Serbia, on the other hand, has money and is beginning to build new hospitals, and we already have a co-habited hospital in Batajnica, as well as certain health institutions throughout Serbia. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the critic of all this that my fellow MPs have been talking about is Dragan Gilas, as one of the vedatas of the former regime until 2012, and here we were also attended by Finance Minister Sinisha Mali. I would just like to quote one part of the court hearing concerning the lawsuit of former Mayor Dragan Gilas, a prominent tycoon, for kidnapping Serbian citizens of 619m euros. In fact, Dragan Gilas sued Sinisha Malo because he said: "I believe in his arguments and that Dragan Gilas robbed the city of Belgrade, I believe that he has achieved a great benefit to himself while the city is sinking." Today, the court found that Sinisha Mali did not offend Dragan Gilas with what he said. It is clear now that Dragan Gilas robbed the city of Belgrade, which was sinking. And of course, when someone was in charge of the city, like Dragan Gilas, who robbed our capital, our capital, of course we had no money to help the citizens, nor to help the economy, nor to build something in Belgrade. Today we have a situation to sign and agreements with countries in the world, with our dear friends, we have here and proposed agreements that we have discussed today with our friendly countries, with China, with the United States, with France. On this occasion, I would especially like to refer to the agreement with France, where the part of the agreement is currently related to the construction of the subway. Metro is very important in Belgrade, the subway will make Belgrade what Belgrade already is. Belgrade is the largest metropolis in Southeast Europe, and building a modern metropolis will also be a world metropolis, with all of the benefits our capital deserves. How carefully all this is planned to build a subway tells the fact not only that all parts of Belgrade will be connected, but even certain small municipalities, and I come from a small municipality from the heart of Belgrade, from Vračar, it seems to me only that Vrakar will have five or six metro stations. So, the whole of Belgrade will be swept up by subway stations, the most modern traffic station. So, not only will Serbia be connected to fast traffic and fast railways in Belgrade-Novi Sad-Budapest, Belgrade-Nish-Nis-North Macedonia, connected to Western and eastern Serbia, but also takes care of the urban parts of our Serbia, it also takes care of our capital. On the other hand, we have these very important agreements, but it is totally amazing, and happiness is recognised by the citizens of Serbia, which we have daily unfounded criticism by part of the opposition and the former regime at the expense of the government of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, at the expense of all the good that is done. So, at times when we are congratulated that our country, led by Vukic, works well, when they congratulate us from the US to China, we get congratulations from Japan, from EU countries, from Arab countries, from friendly Russia, France provides us with support, the whole region, only they criticize us from within, and that part of them. We're being criticized by Dragan Gilas and his pair of tycoons, like Dragan Solak, who stole millions. While Serbia is making sure to raise our economy, and you, Mrs. Atanaskovic, know perfectly what has only been done in the past eight months to raise our economy in these difficult times, we have criticism. Why? Because it doesn't suit them. It does not suit them, they are simply not used to letting the head of the state be those who invest in the economy, do not kidnap the economy as Dragan Gilas, who invest in Serbian citizens, who are helping Serbian citizens, are not kidnapping citizens. So, two policies are clearly profiled in Serbia today. One policy is – state and national interests in the first place, helping our country, businesses and citizens, and another policy is that policy of Dragan Gilas – kidnapped by citizens, kidnapped by the state, damaged the budget. Now, fortunately, this first policy not only has the absolute support of the citizens of Serbia, this first policy, that of Alexander Vukic, but also has support throughout the world. We wouldn't have these agreements today, we wouldn't have all this support from both China and Russia and the EU and the United States and all the others, to remind the countries of the Arab world and Japan, that we don't have one responsible authority and one responsible policy, a policy that leads our citizens, our children, to a safe future, and that's justified. It takes care literally of each sector. Here we always welcome the ministers from the Serbian government, from whichever cabinet the minister comes, we proudly as the MPs of the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, together with our coalition partners, have concrete results, which you from the Serbian Government present to us and with whom we are as MPs. So there is no sector in Serbia where we have no progress. I especially want to highlight progress, exactly what my colleagues were talking about in the economy. Serbia was once devastated by various catastrophic privatisations in 2000 and other malfeasances by 2012, Serbia was a leader in corruption and criminal affairs. Fortunately, changes took place in 2012 and Serbia began to rise. Serbia is now the first in Europe and among the best in the world in 2020 and 2021 as regards the economy. That was impossible to imagine ten years ago. As far as health care is concerned, we are among the best in Europe and the world. There is an increasing number of people who have been re-vaccinated, first vaccinated, and these agreements and these friendly relations that President Vukic has been building for years with both China and Russia have affected that we have no problem even last year when we were getting respirators, when we were best in Europe, as far as fighting the coronary virus and this year when they were getting vaccines. Not only did we get enough vaccines and get enough for the citizens of Serbia, but we also help Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Northern Macedonia, and all the surrounding countries that our partners and who we gave our hand to, gave our hand the support and friendship and the hand of salvation. Serbia, led by Vukic, as the leader of Southeast Europe, as a country growing year after year on all grounds and as regards economy, health and economy and which is growing stronger and stronger, Serbia has given its hand to everyone and the whole world sees clearly what is happening in our country. Fortunately, the citizens of Serbia who have also made clear in the previous elections last year what they think about this policy, Alexander Vukic, and they think what we all know, is that this is the best policy in both the Balkans and Southeast Europe, is one of the best policies in the world and therefore we should be proud to be citizens of Serbia, we should be proud to have such power, which helps the economy, which helps citizens, regrets getting vaccines, which saves lives, which has friendly relations with China led by Si Jinping, and Russia led by Putin, and with the European Union, both with the US and with the Arab world. Serbia today is a modern state, a strong state, stable and that will be led by our president, Alexander Vukic, year after year to become stronger for the future of our children. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5962	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5963	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, honourable minister, fellow Members of Parliament, I have not received my word as the amendment promoter, but if I are to exceed this time in discussion for the amendment's proposal on behalf of the Committee, take it away from me from the parliamentary group. It is not a problem at all, because I wanted to be public on this issue in the past, because the amendment and addition of the Law on Income Tax for citizens, which solves the problems of the frillers, was practically given in both of these amendments, and this is in fact the result of negotiations between the Government of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Association of the so-called. frillenser. These are associations of people, who are like natural persons on the free labour market, have certain business relations with representatives of domestic and foreign companies. Their problems are significant, and above all they do not recognise the tax system not only when it comes to tax, because this law is a matter of the full status of those natural persons. These are usually young people who really have a certain knowledge of the design of certain software, applications, even certain products, as they say from the area or products from the IT industry. It is important that these young people do not have, even paid taxes and contributions, or social security. What does that mean? That means that their status and their life somewhere in general for the system of functioning and their everyday life is compromised and that must be said here. So, all those young people who haven't had a regular state status so far, they've been talking to these associations that deal with this area for a really long, long time. This protest here in front of the Assembly was in terms of solving the problems and their demands was partly justified, but on the other hand it was partly tried to benefit from some political exhibits, Mr Gilas, who has in his circle former MPs who represented themselves as frillers, so in front of the Serbian Parliament just continued, instead of the ecological uprising, to move on to a Friller's uprising, trying simply to, somewhere, have no need to pay this country anything and leave the status of those young people at the level of individuals who can't now, at the moment of the pandemic, pay off their income from abroad completely blocked, as far as their work is concerned. This should be told to citizens openly that the state has solved a really systemic problem by dragging these young people into this system to be recognizable to them, to have their rights and to have their own obligations. The rights, which have been acquired by becoming either entrepreneurs, or limited liability companies or ultimately, will become social insurance companies in the Republic of Serbia, so they will have health insurance that will be able to receive adequate healthcare at any time. Therefore, the problems they now solve and the state are tax evasion for these persons, the intolerance of tax returns that these young people may never have submitted, and then every resident, and these are foreign persons who have been registered here for more than 183 days a year, also have their own rights to function in one orderly way and very important, to have their working relationship regulated. On this basis, in fact, the state which has now opened many chapters in negotiations with the European Union concerning both financial services and revenues, expenditures that must in certain ways be in line with European directives, but not only for Europe but also for us, in order for our individuals to function with companies located in EU countries. Now the system recognizes all of the ministry's incomes that they must have their origins. In 2019, somewhere as a rapper of the year which has not yet been affected by the covid pandemic – 19, they say that in Serbia the revenues from abroad amounted to over five billion euros, which means that a large part, even considered to be in this area of five billion euros, the IT sector was between 1 and 1.4 billion euros, in fact, exporting our brains by incomeing those certain funds for those services that these natural persons had. Why am I saying this? Because the amendment that we are in common, ultimately, on the basis of a proposal from the Government and the Ministry of Finance, the Committee has made a decision in the proposal of Article 5. The law, paragraph 1, allowed and supported the proposal which came as a result of the negotiations of the state and the frillers, which is that the extended deadline, above all, which has been viewed as a period of tax, especially for those who have been registered and who have not had an adequate application so far, meant that they were in breach, for those who have not made adequate payments according to certain solutions, and somewhere the state has tolerated it, because this IT sector has been developing at high speed, especially since 2016. In some period since 01.01.2015, practically by the end of this year, the obligations of those people who should pay the state certain tax obligations that are precisely defined by this law, so we are not talking about that this law did not exist, it existed for all taxpayers and so on. Frillers, somewhere, there is a chance for people who have failed to meet their obligations not to, above all, have to pay the fines imposed by some other taxpayers, that at 120 months they can settle their obligations during the period from 01.01.2022 to 120 months, and that some limit made by 64,000 dinars at the monthly level that they made, or at the annual level of 768,000 dinars, simply does not comply with the obligations of paying this tax. Which means it's been considered that you, so-called. The costs these IT companies have in terms of their costs have been raised from 43% to 50%. What does that mean? This means that this 50% cost, in fact, that the state gives as support, is considered a tax relief. Therefore, the state has taken on a great burden of responsibility when it comes to the overall resolution of the frillers and their obligations, primarily by supporting this part of the costs they have, on the other hand, when it comes to wars at 120 months and when it comes to just limiting minimum earnings, where there are a large number of really young people who have opened their start-up companies or agencies dealing with this business and do not have these millions of figures that everyone is talking about, but have these revenues up to 768,000 dinars annually. In fact, the protest here in front of the Serbian Parliament was interrupted precisely because the demands, i.e. what the professional associations in this area advocated, were accepted by the state and indeed saw that, let's say, those who had to pay for a certain kind of obligations, if, for example, earning a monthly income at 700 euros, when we look at a part of the war, should, for example, be a monthly commitment of only 7.5 euros. So what turned out to be that the state had heard about this area. Let's just remind ourselves that the state has opened the door to the complete IT industry, that in a certain way all the frillers are legalized, i.e. entering legal functioning flows, means that they open their agencies and companies and thus gain some kind of benefits, which is that in the first three years of their operation, 70% of mandatory social security is on the burden of the state, i.e. they pay only 30% when we talk about taxes and social security contributions. It's very important that now, in fact, it's formalized so-called. The business presence of IT industry and frillers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which opened the door and the possibility that other companies that may not have had opportunities so far or may not have had plans to open, I am talking about foreign companies dealing with this area, they may not have wanted to open their companies here in Serbia, this is actually an invitation to open their companies here, because they will work easier with our intelligence that will be formalized through the agencies, then, through companies with d.o.o. and which, ultimately, will be able to function here in an extremely rational, pragmatic way, especially since we as a state in this process of digitising the functioning of businesses in general have made very much progress in this part. I will then say what the research has shown in general when it comes to investments in Serbia and what it is that attracts the inflow of foreign direct investment in Serbia, especially from the area of opening new companies, when many of the companies that came here from this area are asked to open their new jobs and their new projects. It is important to say that investments in Serbia in 2021, as you can see, with this budget rebalance, when we talk about strategic projects, have increased to 7.2% of GDP, which says that this is twice as much as it was five years ago, and nearly 30 years ago we have had the opportunity to hear from the finance minister that it was never such an investment momentum when it comes to strategic projects in general related to the development of Serbia and infrastructure. In infrastructure, we are now increasingly classifying this IT industry and the complete digitisation of our economy, because it is not just to build a road, it is not just to build an airport, build a port, it needs to and provide broadband areas covered by the Internet, precisely because today it has simply become a standard in life. And so, in fact, you see how much we as a state have progressed even in our very functioning. Of course, nothing could have happened if we hadn't implemented fiscal consolidation and economic reforms from 2014 to 2016, in fact, those measures directly that went from 2015 to 2017, and the results we saw were, of course, 2018 and 2019, and of course, that surplus that appeared in the budget was respected to us as something we didn't predict well. However, at this moment, when the major economic crisis occurred in the middle of the kovide 19 pandemic, apparently this good result and the savings we had in those years showed, in fact, that the smallest fall had occurred in our economic activities precisely because as a state, we organised a complete system and business activities and health and, ultimately, diplomatic activities that President Vukic had and the complete government of the Republic of Serbia, because we opened co-operation with both the east and the west at a very high level, which proved precisely in that support and when the vaccines were in question also medical equipment, but also the further part when it came to the opening of new factories. Investment in Serbia in 2021 was one of the topics of businesses and foreign and domestic companies, when it came to one poll. The question was, what is this reason that attracts foreign investors to come to Serbia and open their factories? There are usually some 14 points that have been highlighted by all those who have been surveyed. After all, they made their conclusions with their answers. First of all, it was the freedom of investment. This means that today we have a story of three very important agreements with three completely different countries, we say economic powers and political powers, and the People's Republic of China and France and America. When they say that the freedom of investment for all these companies from different parts of the world is important, then we can really say that Serbia is a democratic state in which, above all, not only is it possible to express freedom of opinion, as you can see, we have no problem in debate with those who do not think well of this Serbia, nor those who are constantly suing us that we are not doing well and we are not leading this country in a positive direction, although all figures show. But when all these companies say that the freedom of investment is the first fact that they come and open new factories here, then I think that it should serve both the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the state and all of us MPs, because it is of great importance as one recognition for all that we do, regardless of the pressures of those who run their irresponsible policies and address citizens. The strategic position says for special jobs and for ties with the EU, in fact, is one of the reasons that shows that Serbia, as always, has been at a crossroads between the East and the West, but apparently since the arrival of the SNS since 2012, we have recognised the needs of our country and Serbian citizens to be able to co-operate with both the East and the West. Acceptable taxes and tax incentives, so that's one of the reasons why foreign companies come here, and I'll tell you, there couldn't have been any of these incentives, and there couldn't have been any support for companies if it hadn't been, first of all, a public finance arrangement, the introduction of a discipline, the resolution of the full collapse of public finances that we experienced in 2012 when we took responsibility for running the state. That's why it was very important to show that we can also start new companies in a completely relaxed way, using so-called use. Virtual seats and online mode, so the operation of the company online proved to be very good, especially now at the time of the covid 19 pandemic. Then, customs reliefs that were growing every year in terms of the flow of goods and services, especially when we speak and co-operate with EU countries, and for God's sakes, and based on an agreement with the Russian Federation of 1% taxation, and now, as you can see, today, an agreement for stronger co-operation between the customs administrations of the People's Republic of China and Serbia. Then, the part relating to fair competition, it was very difficult to conduct competition here on the market when we had a country by 2012, which designed the budget thanks to only one tycoon that determined how much money would go where and who. Then, labour legislation. Serbia has made great progress when it comes to labour legislation, as well as the part relating to 15 free zones when we are even talking about customs duties and the development of the economy. Employment that led to Serbia coming down to 9% of unemployment from 26% of unemployment, is directly talking about the results of responsible policy and increasing foreign direct investment flows, but also directly on poverty reduction, i.e. increasing the wealth of the Republic of Serbia's own state. Today when we talk about plans for "Serbia 2025", then we are talking about the reality that we are going towards the average salary being 900 euros, that the average pension in 2025 is 440 euros and because we have so-called pension. Financial discipline and fiscal discipline in terms of tax collection is, in fact, why we are talking about these amendments at all today. It's important that we get used to all those who may not have had a status resolved so far, as the frillers didn't have the status solved, now they can simply solve it. Those who were smarter by now paid taxes, opened their own companies, today have no such problem. Therefore, it is necessary to learn from those who may have been faster, smarter and indeed administratively resolved their issue from this area, but the state has also helped those small companies who are in a certain way now on their way to solving their problems when it comes to defining their status. We think that this will make much larger exports from the IT area, and we think that as a state, we will also make more income when it comes to foreign remittances in this area and we think that the economic activities in this area will increase much more, and this will certainly increase the demands that go towards the Ministry of Economy to support these companies through funding and the Development Fund. You will certainly recognize as the Ministry of Need to support such small companies and that we will simply support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5964	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. The sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Compensation of Social Security Obligations You have also received an amendment submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds under the proposal of the Law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the motionor accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5965	Dear President of the National Assembly, of course I will support this government amendment, because it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Today, respected MPs, we also discussed those three agreements with three very important countries that somehow contribute to vital projects in infrastructure, especially that agreement with France. Speaking of which, and in these projects that are related to the agreement with France, let me just say a few sentences that I think are very important and very important, in terms of the context of Serbian-French relations. These Serbian-French relations of friendship have been established, this is very important to pay attention to, in the far Middle Ages. They date before the marriage of Yelena of England in 1250 to Serbian King Uros I. The first Serbian-French friendship, respected MPs, was established, believed or not, during the Serbian mayor Stefan Nemanja, founder of the Serbian medieval state in the XII century. This is what Joseph Tronosac tells us in his famous “Tronogue Rhodology. ” The troposman says, I will quote, for this has not been known to the public so far: “There is no sea to sail to France to its friends from before, for the king of France has often received it, and there it has been for several years. Because of Nemania's origin, his wisdom and courage, I gave the king of France his daughter Anna for his wife, so they lived at the royal court in France. After Nemanja’s brothers lost his support and help, all died and died in wars. The Epirus Emperor of Georgia has robbed all Raska and all the ends of Zaklabnja, that is, that is, Herzegovina. Then the raggedites sent their messengers to the king of France, asking that he send them to Nemania. When the envoys are received, the king advises Nemania and escorts him with his daughter, as appropriate, along with his sons who were born in the royal court, that is, Stefan and Vukan. “ Dear People’s MPs, this for the public scientific so far is not known this source. So Stefan Nemanja had a French wife named Anna, the daughter of French King Louis VII, and since then friendly relations date together with Serbs. "By the arms of them, the king said to Nemania, "I cut off from my screens, i.e. lilies, two branches, which will be for you and your offspring a part of my secret, i.e. lilies, and these two children are in your roast two hiddens from my roast. “ Therefore, the secret, the honourable MPs, is on the coat of arms of Serbia. The above-mentioned president of the Assembly on the coat of arms of Serbia, the screens, date back to French and French kings. So Anna married Stefan Nemanja and from then on began, not from Yelena Angusa later. This quote, which I have now told you from the "Tronosk genealogy", speaks not only of the first Serbian-French friendship and relations, but also of all Serbian-French heraldic ties between two dynastys and two countries. It also tells us about the first lineage and the appearance of a hidden, or lilies near Serbs. To be clear, as of today, we should not say that the screens came during Serbian King Urosh, but Stefan Nemanje. So the symbol of the secret came to Serbia through the daughter of French King Louis VII, Anna married to Germany, and not through the marriage of Yelena of England to Urosh I. Two shields in the coat of arms symbolized two German sons and those two wings in our coat of arms are the symbols of two German sons. Friendly ties between Serbia and France continue in the XIII century, when Serbian King Urosh married Jelena England, the daughter of noble parents. Jelena was the mother of the famous Serbian kings Dragutin and Milutin, with the title of Queen of Serbia, Duklje, Albania, Huma, that is, Herzegovina, Dalmatia and the coastal areas. The arrival of Jelena Anjuska in Serbia and her wedding to King Uroš are bound by a legend that says that Uroš I, on her arrival in Serbia, ordered that the regions of the Ibar River be entangled with the planting of the Jordanians and today is called "Jorgovana Valley", the Ibra Valley. Serbia and France's co-operation continues throughout the Middle Ages, and it particularly continues in modern times, i.e. during the Karajords. The leader of Karadjordje sent a letter to Napoleon during the first Serbian uprising and in a letter of leadership asking, in a way, for France to send help. France was unable to provide help because of its busy work at the time. In the French parliament, Viktor Ego asked France to help Serbia protect its people from Turkish crime. In that speech, Igo demands the unification of European countries, so the honourable MPs can consider his speech to be the first document of the European idea of the European Union, not as you have heard from the 20th century. La Martin left an earthquake witness about the Cell Tower and its symbolism. La Martin, by passing through Nis, told Cele Tower, quotes: "Let the Serbs preserve this monument, he will teach their children what the independence of a nation is worth, showing them at what price they paid for that independence of their fathers," the quote concluded. In the mid-19th century, including its end, the influence of France in Serbia is getting stronger. Many Serbs later became senior state officials, cultural and scientific workers who were educated in France, not to count them. One of them is Jovan Skerlic. At the time of World War I, Serbia and France, as you know, were allies. France helped Serbia with the weapons, and later organised the transfer of the Serb army from the Adriatic coast to the island of Krf. France has taken care of many Serb wounded and patients in its hospitals, and Serbian children and youth have settled in many schools in France. According to current estimates, the latest, around 7,000 Serbian students and students. France was one of the organizers of the Thessaloniki Front, as you know, and the head of the united Serbian-French army was French General Franz d'Epere. Belgrade is one, respected MPs, or we can say the only one, is actually the city of France that carries the Order of the Legion of Honor. This friendship and alliance have been perpetuated by Serbs as a monument of gratitude to France in Belgrade. And today, honourable MPs, the two countries' relations are at an enviable level after colding in the time of our country's bombing. Today, they are at a truly envious level thanks to the diplomatic activity of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. That is why France will be engaged in the implementation of infrastructure facilities in our country that will be built at the beginning of this year. Of course I'll support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-28-0.u5966	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. Dear Members of the People, I thank the Minister for her presence. We're going to vote now, you can go free. Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has declared the points 1 to 4 of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, April 28th, starting at 15.33 p.m. as a day for voting on the remaining agenda points of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. In accordance with Article 88 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 182 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. The fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Tax Act on the coming of the City I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, and since the amendments submitted have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 189, for – 188, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. The sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Obligations of Social Security, I would like to remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, and since the only amendment submitted has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on contributions to mandatory social security, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 190, for – 189, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 7 to 10 of the agenda, and since the amendments to the National Assembly have not been submitted to the bill, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure, to decide only the draft laws in general. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The seventh item of the agenda. I'm putting the draft law on electronic invoices in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 192 for – 191, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the proposal for an electronic invoice bill. The eighth point of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of financial liabilities in commercial transactions, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 192, for – 191, did not vote - one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a bill amending the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions. We're moving to agenda nine. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 192, for - 190, abstention - one, did not vote - one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. We're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. I put the draft law on the register of administrative procedures in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total - 192, for -191, did not vote - one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted a proposal for a register of administrative procedures. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for the Law on Confirmation of International Contracts, that is, the Agreement (points 11 to 13).I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia decides on laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual recognition of the AEO Customs Administration programme of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Credit Management Programme of the General Customs Administration of the People's Republic of China in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total - 192 for - 192. I find that the National Assembly, unanimously, passed the bill. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming an agreement to encourage investment between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total - 192 for - 192. I find that the National Assembly, unanimously, passed the bill. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming Annex 1 of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on co-operation in the area of the implementation of priority projects in the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 192, for - 190, abstention - one, did not vote - one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude the ninth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. The tenth session is scheduled for tomorrow. Tomorrow, in the morning part until 15.00 hours, we will discuss, there will be a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Accreditation, the Proposal for a Law on cases of precious metals and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports. After that, in the afternoon part of the session from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, the government will be traditionally asked questions and the government of the Republic of Serbia will be present at the head of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Thank you very much. (The session is over for 15.40 hours)
