ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-1.u5231	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. This special session, pursuant to Article 119(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have called for the oath of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, who, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges, takes the oath before the National Assembly. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, Mrs Jasmin Vasovic, President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and I welcome Mrs Maja Popovic, Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Snezana Markovic, President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court, Presidents of the Republic of Serbia, Presidents of the Court of Appeals, Mr Nenad Vujic, President of the Judicial Academy and all others present at this session. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the sixth session of the First Regular Session in 2021, held on 8 April, chose Mrs. Jasmin Vasovic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I also remind you that Article 53 is Section 2. The Law on Judges provides for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court to take an oath before the National Assembly. In line with that provision, I call on Mrs Jasmin Vasovic, president of the Supreme Cassation Court to approach for the sake of the oath. (The President of the National Assembly reads the text of the oath, and the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation repeats the text of the oath. ) “I swear to my glass that I will do my function faithfully to the Constitution and to the law, according to my best knowledge and skill and serve only truth and justice.” Let me congratulate you, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, once again on your choice and wish you a great deal of success in your work. I ask the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation to sign and submit the text of the oath. I now call upon the President of the Supreme Cassation Court to address the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-1.u5232	Dear President of the National Assembly, MPs, dear colleagues and guests, to be behind this speaker in the role of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is certainly a special moment, both in my career and in my life, to be the emotions I felt when I was elected judge. I will try in the same way as I have done so far to be committed to my work and to professionally perform my new function, which is at the same time a great honor and an even greater responsibility. In doing so, I feel the greatest responsibility for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who expect equal protection of their rights, but also for their colleagues, because as the National Assembly has given me the legality of the choice in this function, so with its support, I am given the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is why my word essentially their word, my work, and I believe that this should be a synonym for the first among the equals. At the same time, I expect all judges to take seriously the responsibility of the judge's office, and to always bear in mind that it does not in itself give them power, but that they, by their knowledge, behavior, and system of values, give them power and reputation. This is also my first message to the judges and the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-13-1.u5233	I thank Mrs. Jasmini Vasovic, the president or president of the Supreme Cassation Court, depending on what he believes is necessary. I hereby conclude the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. We continue to work, with the next session at 11.00 hours. I thank you all.
