ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 116 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 147 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8122	Thank you, Your Honor. On July 3rd in Novi Pazar, a concert was held in front of 28,000 people at the town stadium. Yesterday we had an announcement from the Director of the Public Health Institute saying he wasn't informed about the concert and it's important that the inspection services determine whether there were any violations of epidemiological measures. My question is addressed to the Crisis Headquarters – did one of them ask permission to organise a concert of this kind in front of so many people, since it was said that such permission could be granted exclusively by the Crisis Headquarters? Have the inspections been under surveillance? Was it even possible today to organize such a gathering with 28,000 people in one place, when the epidemic is still going on? Yesterday, on July 5th, Novi Pazar had 11 infected, unlike Belgrade, who was 28. If we take the population, this means that the number of people in Novi Pazar was ten times higher than Belgrade. This is indeed a very important and important issue, given that these days, a year has been completed since last year's unfortunate events when Novi Pazar was one of the biggest corners of the crown, when over a hundred or several hundred citizens of mine from Novi Pazar, but also from cities around Novi Pazar, died due to the collapse of the system, due to the irresponsibility of those responsible in the health system and their deception of the public to illustrate the real situation. Instead of remembering all those who have lost their lives because of inadequate medical help these days, we have again become a potential hotspot with the gathering of 28,000 people in one place, at an esthetical concert, in the course of the pandemic and in the process of threatening to expand the new strain of the virus in our space. So I ask the Crisis Staff, did any of them ask permission? Did they give permission to organise this event? Whether the inspection services were being supervised and supervised, given that the director of the Public Health Institute said he would supervise. Now that event is over. How will they monitor an event that has already been completed? I just want to say that no matter what the concert is announced as a humanitarian for the treatment of a girl who is in need of help, where my fellow citizens from Novi Pazar, but all Serbian citizens, too, have been very involved in helping that girl raise money to help her heal. This is not the way to do it because the price of the ticket, as we have seen, was minor. This is the price of about one text message that has been sent for humanitarian purposes, which has put 28,000 people at risk, that is to say, another hundred and several thousand people who are in direct contact with those 28,000 people in relation to family relationships, in the nearest connections and cannot avoid meeting them for the next few days. That's why I find this issue very serious, and I want the crisis staff to give us their vision, was there any permission to organize a concert of this kind? Were there epidemiological precautions? Have the inspection services been monitoring and, if not, what will be done to make those responsible for this kind of gathering of this number of people punished? Will justice be done, or will it remain as if it were responsible at the New Market Health Center a year ago, all under the veil of darkened clouds, while the citizens of Novi Pazar will mourn their dead, here, and day and day, a year after that event, without the satisfaction of justice and without real information about everything that happened last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8123	Thank you. The word has the vice president of the Elvira Kovac Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8124	Thank you. Dear President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, as is known, Slovenia took over the presidency of the EU Council on 1 July this year, under the slogan "Together. Resistance. Europe." Since the position of the Slovenian presidency that there is no EU without more commonity and more Europe, and as we know, Slovenia has traditionally been expected to expand the EU to Western Balkan countries, the issue of EU enlargement has finally, after a long time, been found specifically among the defined priorities of the presidency. So, starting from this, and also from several facts, such as that at the First Intergovernmental Political Conference held recently, on 22 June of this year, it was practically really started to apply a new methodology of enlargement and on the negotiating process of the Republic of Serbia and it was confirmed that according to this new methodology Serbia opened the first cluster, whose fundamental rights are based, that the fact is also, according to the new methodology, the Republic of Serbia is ready to open two clusters, to open three – competitiveness and inclusive growth, as well as four – green agreement and sustainable link, which are fully prepared in accordance with the new methodology, and that recently in the past few weeks four negotiating positions have been adopted, so, negotiating positions for four chapters, in particular, 10, 15, 16 and 19, that Serbia is really committed to strengthening regional co-operation, through several initiatives, the most recently adopted four negotiating positions, therefore, so that the implementation of the Mergen and the reformation of the reformation process is true and the whole, with the stability of the region. A survey by the Regional Co-operation Council presented in Tirana this year, on June 10th, at the Western Balkan Leader's Summit, shows that a large percentage, 77% of citizens, believes that regional co-operation strengthens the Western Balkans, both politically and safely and economically, and what is significant, which we have read about these days, that in the 7th point of the EU's event on the future, Viktor Orban, the Prime Minister of Hungary, has particularly stressed that there is no EU prosperity without the membership of the Republic of Serbia, and that last year the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Ministers, Slovenian and Hungarian Prime Minister together agreed that they want a strong and competitive Europe that is home to different peoples. My question, which I would like to ask, is that, during the Slovenian Presidency, so in the second half of this year, we can expect additional political dynamics and ultimately important concrete steps that will mean a measurable, concrete progress of Serbia and the entire Western Balkans region in the EU accession process? Furthermore, in addition to economic matters, economic support, no less significant, extremely important economic investment plan, which will ensure the socio-economic progress and recovery of Serbia and the region, we can finally expect a political consensus between the 27 EU member states to open clusters three and four, as a strong impulse and unequivocal support for reforms that the Republic of Serbia is implementing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8125	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8126	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today ends exactly three thousand days after a Berlin Agreement was signed which, among other things, Pristina has committed itself to forming a community of Serb municipalities. Until today, Pristina has failed to meet that obligation. Unfortunately, this isn't the only question that's questionable. Pristina avoids continuing dialogue in the missing persons act, which is certainly the main issue for us, because it is not only a political issue, but also a deeply human and civilization issue above all. In addition, Pristina has daily sabotaged dialogue in many ways, and it does so in a brutal and non-civilisation way, which we have seen in recent times. In the last week alone, I'll remind you, there's been more attacks. On Vidovdan, a young man was arrested for defending the nun. A group of Albanians recently staged protests over the return of a Serbian woman, Dragica Gasic, to her apartment in Djakovica. The last in a series of such attacks took place a few days ago in the village of Gojbuli near Vučitrn, when a group of Albanians attacked and severely injured a 13-year-old boy, Nikola Peric. Just since the beginning of the year, almost 70 days have been recorded. At least every day there is an incident, and about the destruction, the desecration of Serbian sanctities, Serbian houses, cemeteries, we don't even talk. The Serbian population in the KIM area lives in constant fear and no perspective, unfortunately. How, then, can we talk about the security and security of the Serb population and the Serb sanctity of KIM, when it is obvious that Pristina wants to take our sanctity and even turn it into its tourist attractions, seeking outward support? It is also obvious that they are losing their patience, but also the support of some Western countries they have been counting on. They don't like it, say, when US Special Envoy for the Western Balkans Matthew Palmer, over a announced lawsuit by Pristina against Serbia for genocide, says he doesn't think such an approach would contribute to resolving the Kosovo-Serbia dispute and must have a basis for that. I'd like to return to the technical dialogue scheduled for tomorrow in Pristina. The main topic on which the Serbian side will insist will certainly be the formation of a Serb community and the resolution of missing persons, as I have already stated. One of the topics will be the safe, smooth and smooth return of internally displaced persons to their homes, which, unfortunately, is also not possible at this time. The Serbian population is particularly prohibited from moving. Unfortunately, Pristina authorities have often defended the entry of the KIM of our officials and the Serb population, who wanted to visit their homes and their sanctities. In this regard, I would like to ask a question, of course, as a parliamentary group full support to the negotiating team that will continue negotiations at the technical level during tomorrow, but also to ask the Director of the KIM Office, Mr. Petar Petkovic, who is headed by a team that conducts technical dialogue - what activities can our team actually take to activate the Pristina side finally to implement the commitments undertaken by the Brussels Agreement, because otherwise we ourselves cannot conduct this kind of dialogue and we cannot reach what is our goal, and this is a compromise and just solution that will be acceptable to both sides? What is expected of the international community that is the mediator in this dialogue and which clearly does not yet have mechanisms that can oblige Pristina and require it to implement the agreement? This gives the impression that international mediators are moving silently over all excesses and inadmissible violations of the human rights of Serbs in the KIM area. So far, European intermediaries have unfortunately not responded. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8127	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of Serbian schools and members of the Serbian National Council in Macedonia from the Republic of Northern Macedonia, who are monitoring part of today's session from the Grand Hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. Thank you. We're moving on. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8128	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Before I move on to parliamentary matters, I would like to join in welcoming our guests, as president of the Group of MPs of Friendship with Northern Macedonia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few parliamentary questions. First, I refer to the Ministry of Culture and Information, as well as the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, etc. REM. Namely, whether it will react to a tycoon’s unspeakable act of television, and I will not deliberately mention which television is concerned, because citizens know well what television is and who tycoons are behind that television, and in order to protect the public’s interest in the field of electronic media, as well as to protect the users of electronic media services in accordance with the law, and in a manner appropriate to a democratic society. It's about, and they call it, a documentary film, and it's usually a propaganda piece of junk that serves exclusively for the most terrestrial and primitive campaign against all political insinuators, and most of all against those who dare to publicly support Alexander Vukic's policy. This movie, called "heroes of the Evil Age" or as they've already called it, has been broadcast for weeks on that television and is dedicated to another person every week. This television with otherwise suspicious registration, suspicious licenses, even more questionable finances, otherwise it is only doing so to spread hatred for Alexander Vukic and all those who support him. Here's how it works. So, they bring in a team of various obscenities, of course of the same-minded, on-call spitters, known only for being always ready to put themselves in the service whenever it takes the worst possible to blacken and spit on Alexander Vukic or someone in his environment. Then they pick their target carefully and then their orchestra starts to Satanize. Goebbels could envy them, literally, Goebbels could envy them for it. So far, Sinisa Mali, Aleksandar Vulin, Dragan Vučićevic, Milorad Dodik, Ivica Dačić and that we understand each other immediately are not particularly important to them either Siniša Mali, nor Aleksandar Vulin, nor Dragan Vucicevic, nor any of them. We know that all they care about is the context, that they're someone who actually makes so-called. The wolf's environment. That's exactly what this dirty campaign is about. So, they carefully choose the target, previously, with the help of those on-call spitters that I was talking about, they go after the scariest thing to blacken it, to satanize it, to demonize it, literally to make a monster out of them, and then the name of the messages - this is the Wolf's environment for you. It doesn't matter what's not true, it doesn't matter what the lies are, the slanders, the half-truths, and we know that half-truths are more dangerous than lies, it doesn't matter what they're saying, it doesn't matter what the facts are, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what they're doing, it doesn't matter what they're doing, it doesn't matter what they're doing, it doesn't matter what they're doing, it doesn't matter what they're doing, it doesn't matter what they're doing, it doesn't matter what they're doing, it doesn't matter what they't matter what they't, it't matter what the whole negative narrative against Vukic. After all, this isn't the first time, Chairman, that they're doing it. We remember well that this same team, this same Slavisa Lekic, who was also president of NUNS in his day, during the period when Gilas was giving them plenty, both a hand and a hat, and a huge sum of money, so that journalist in an attempt signed as the author of this junk made a little more than a year ago that shameful movie "Government" from two parts, so from an hour and a half, where the worst possible nausea and vomit, the worst possible insults, were personal insults on Alexander Vukic. So, as many as 442 times, Vucic is negatively mentioned in that film with over 40 different negative epithets, I mean as many as 43, while at the same time accusing us of censorship, of media darkness, etc. What kind of censorship is that? What kind of media darkness is that when you can record and broadcast such nastyness and hair you don't miss because of it? Watch out for another insolence, chairman – at the end of each, let me say, episodes of this series, during the checkout list, they publish a list of persons who allegedly refused to participate in this. Why am I supposed to say that? Because on that list, I, along with the photograph, have never been contacted, but they don't mind publishing my name and last name and photo and writing about how I refused to participate. Although, if they had contacted me, I would have refused. With disgust, I would refuse to participate in such mud, but it does not give them the right to publish my painting and seriously carry my thought, to sue them for it. That's, perhaps, the best proof of what liars are. When they could agree on something like this, how can we trust them for anything else? At the very end, the chairman, when these same media media that we've talked about for years has generated hatred in our society, for years they've been creating an atmosphere of persecution and personal political insinuation, then we shouldn't be surprised to see tweets like this, in the least speaking, monster tweets. So, it's a tweet, it's got a photograph of our basketball players, our teammates who won gold at the European Championship, our heroes who lit up Serbia's cheeks. That tweet, or this photograph, is, in fact, a selfie created in the presidency at the official reception of the President of the Republic. Now one hero finds to write – on the field of the lioness, off the field of the stupid and the poor. You're losin' in It's a curse, not to read everything, so. Be careful how morbid this is, how bizarre this is, how much hate eats them that nothing matters anymore. So, girls go to the European Championship, they bring us the title, they bring us the gold medal, they make us all proud and just because they took pictures with the President of the Republic on official reception they deserve this. That's why I urge the competent institutions to respond to cases like this and similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8129	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Joseph Broz. You have been presented the minutes of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the Office for the Affairs of the Chamber of Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session held on 22 June 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 160, for – 147, did not vote – 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Fifth Special Session minutes by majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 226 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, the following draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Nature, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Partnership, Trade and Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Joint Declaration concerning the Tilateral Approach to the Rules of Origin and the Joint Declaration on the Relationship between the Protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland and the Partnership, Trade and Co-operation Agreement, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Credit No. CRS 1020 01 Y between the French Development Agency and the Republic of Serbia for the implementation of the Climate Change-resistant Urban Environment Programme, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Credit Treaty No. CRS 1015 02 D between the French Agency for Development and the Republic of Serbia for the Modernisation of the Railway Sector in Serbia Phase 1, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme for the Development Policy for the Efficiency of the Public Sector and Green Recovery) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme of the Integrated Development of the Sava and Drina River Corridor by applying a multi-phase programme approach) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme of the Modernisation of the Railway Sector in Serbia through the application of a multi-phase programme approach) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Interconnector of the Gas Interconnector of Niš - Dimitrovgrad - Bulgaria (border) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, a proposal on the Law on Credited Creditment. 0020008959 relating to an unsecured loan of 431,685,732,79 euros, with the UKEF guarantee to finance certain construction services by Bechtel Enka UK Limited, which operates in Serbia via Bechtel Enka UK Limited Branch of Belgrade for the purposes of the business company "Corridori Serbia" d.o.o. With regard to the construction of the infrastructure corridor of the E-761 section of Pojate-Preljina (Morjevski Corridor) between the Republic of Serbia represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance as the Borrower and J.P. MORGAN AG as Agent and JPMORGAN Chase BANK, N.A., LONDON BRANCH as the Original Borrower, Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice, a motion to suspend the role of President of the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to further work, I remind you that from the agenda of this session, the first item has been withdrawn - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the laws on the protection of nature, which has been filed by the government. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2, 170, 192, paragraphs 3 and 201, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint single search be carried out from agendas 2 to 9 and a joint single search on the 10th and 11th points of the agenda. Since Mr. Maritovic is not here, I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total - 162, for – 148, did not vote – 14. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. Before that, I would just like to point out that, given that we have divided this session into two thematic topics, namely debates, and given that there are international agreements here, or agreements where there are no debates in particular, we will work today and tomorrow, and that means there will be no need for work Thursday because the vote would take place tomorrow at the end of the debate. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by Branisalv Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Irena Vujović, Minister of Environment Protection, Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Stevan Nikcevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Jelena Tanacković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Milan Rakić, State Secretary at the Ministry, Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Olivera Jocic, Deputy Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Ana Tripović, Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance and Dragan Dejanović, Executive Director of Public Defence of the Ministry of the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of Finance of Finance. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 180(1) but with Article 157(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on the aforementioned laws. I welcome Minister Sinisha Malo and give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8130	Thank you very much. Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, you today have seven legislative proposals which, I would say, are key to further accelerated growth and the development of our economy. The three areas covered by these legislative proposals - further building and improving our transport infrastructure, improving our environment, therefore, the fight for ecology and the third sector, i.e. the third importance of improving public sector work in the Republic of Serbia. The total value of all these agreements is 768.8m euros. So, a huge amount of money that we're about to focus on three priority areas that I mentioned earlier, so let me start in line. The first draft law is before you a bill confirming the Partnership, Trade and Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. As you know, Great Britain has left the EU. Until that moment, the relationship between us and the UK was regulated by the SAA, the Free Trade Agreement. At this point, given their exit from the EU, we have a special agreement, an agreement that defines bilateral relations between the United Kingdom and the Republic of Serbia, and this agreement is here before you. He was on his way to apply temporarily on May 20th of this year. If he is ratified in the National Assembly during the next day, then we will fully confirm him. Otherwise, relations with the UK are traditionally good. It has been 184 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between the UK and Serbia, but what is more important for us, when it comes to the economy, since 2016, the Republic of Serbia has achieved a surplus in trade with the UK and this agreement, which today defines bilateral agreements between the two countries in a way that encourages further investment, further trade and further economic development and further co-operation between the two countries, and if we continue to achieve a surplus, it naturally goes in favour of Serbia's citizens and Serbia's economy. Otherwise, in Serbia, it operates about 500 businesses whose majority owners are legal entities from the UK. In a large number of our business areas they participate, so this agreement and its adoption are crucial to continue this co-operation in the future. There are two agreements before you, too. One is between the French Agency for Development and the Republic of Serbia for the realisation of the Urban Environment Programme, and the other is the bill to confirm the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is a programme loan for development policies for public sector efficiency and green recovery. Therefore, two programme loans, two agreements relating to the improvement, efficiency and transparency of the public sector, on the other hand, and the Green Agenda, i.e. the Green Recovery on the other hand. The value of these agreements -- the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 82.6m euros and the French agency for the development of an additional 50m euros. As you know, you only adopted the new Climate Change Act a few weeks ago. A national plan has been adopted to reduce the emissions of major polluting substances from various combustion plants. So Serbia has made it clear that it is going to fight to preserve and improve the environment. Let's go with the so-called. The Green Agenda. It is these agreements that give us the opportunity to take part in this agenda and implement it. What is important to me as finance minister, we will be going to the international capital market with so-called "the end of the year". green bonds. We'll do it for the first time. We will run for projects that the state of Serbia has in various areas concerning our environmental and environmental improvements, and I expect not only a good investor response, but also a great confirmation of this very Green Agenda that we have discussed. In order to also show with concrete figures our commitment to ecology, in the budget rebalancing of April, you have also voted for an increase, a huge increase in the budget for ecology, so to 24 billion dinars, which is the record amount of the budget for the Ministry of Environment Protection, so that on that side we have both concrete measures and concrete figures to show our commitment to the Green Agenda. You are also facing two agreements, one related to the French Development Agency for the Modernisation of the Railway Sector project in the Republic of Serbia, phase 1, and the Modernisation of the Railway Sector in Serbia by applying a multi-phase programme approach between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The total value of this project is 102m euros, 51m euros were provided by the French Development Agency, and the second half by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, therefore, by a huge amount of money that will just be aimed at improving our railway infrastructure. As you know, the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to invest in the construction of new highways, in the revitalisation and reconstruction and regional and local roads, and also in the construction of a new railway, in revitalising existing railways, just so that through the development of infrastructure, on the one hand, we can accelerate our economic growth, employ our industry, but also, on the other hand, improve the infrastructure, because this infrastructure is the basis and prerequisite for the arrival of investors, the creation of factories, the creation of new other jobs, and that is the essence of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In these agreements, to be a little bit more concrete, therefore, you have reconstructions of a large number of rail circulars, i.e. railway crossings, revitalisation of railway infrastructure, the reconstruction of the track, the reconstruction of the tunnel in downtown Belgrade, the construction of the second stage of a railway station in downtown Belgrade, so all that is necessary to improve the system of rail infrastructure in our country. You know that our priority is to build Serbian-Hungarian railways, so the rapid railways from Belgrade to Budapest. It's currently being built and done. Also, the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway also began the reconstruction of the train line from Subotica towards Segedin. In the budget, we provided 62m euros for the purchase of three new Stadler train compositions. So, Serbian citizens will be carrying new, modern, modern trains, and on the other hand, we will be taking tracks no slower than 160km per hour. So, a huge contribution to the growth of our economies, and on the other hand, of course, to the quality and living standards of Serbian citizens. Our wish is, as you know, to connect the entire region. The Republic of Serbia is the dominant economy in the Western Balkans region. The more we connect with roads and railways, the faster and safer our goods will be exports. It benefits the citizens of Serbia, and from a larger inflow into the budget, a larger foreign exchange inflow, which, of course, gives us opportunities for higher salaries, higher pensions, and on the other hand, you have more jobs in our country, as I say, is the basis of our economic policy. In front of you, too, is a bill relating to the Integrated Development Project of the Sava and Drina River Corridor, by applying a multi-phase programme approach between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This is an agreement worth 78.2m euros and it is an idea and a desire through this agreement to re-suscitate dikes in all priority areas along the Sava River corridors. I will give you a few examples, therefore, of the rebuilding of the Kolubara dam, which protects Obrenovac, dikes in New Belgrade, which protects Belgrade from floods, support for improving port infrastructure in Sremska Mitrovica, planning and development of tourism in the corridors of Sava and Drina, including the design of master plans for nautical tourism and eco tourism. So, not only do we contribute to economic growth in the Sava and Drina River Basin, we also protect citizens from potential floods that can happen. In front of you today is also the proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty on the construction of a gas interconnector from Nis to the Bulgarian border, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. I signed that financial contract. So it's one of the most important infrastructure projects in our country right now, projects that need to provide a stable gas supply, which should also diversify the roads, or ways that gas is coming to Serbia to reduce dependence from one direction only, the direction at this point that is passing through Hungary. Of course, for our economy in these conditions, under the conditions of accelerated growth of our economy, it is essential to provide enough gas. Gas is natural, clean, therefore, environmentally acceptable, on the other hand, allows factories to increase their capacity. That's why this project, which today is in front of you, is extremely important. For your information, this is otherwise one of the six EU priority projects under the Energy Connecting Initiative of Central and Southeast Europe. The project is worth 85.5m euros, 25m euros is provided by the European Investment Bank, 49.6 EU grants, IPA funds and the rest will be provided from the budget. What is finally before you, honourable MPs, as Mr. Dacic's president said, the Moravia Corridor project. So, you also have before you the Law confirming the contract to finance the construction of the Moravia Corridor, the total value of 431.6m euros. A key project to develop that part of Serbia. So it is a project that is of national importance for the further development of the Republic of Serbia. Part of Serbia's 2025 plan, therefore, is another promise that President Vukic made and which went into realisation. Otherwise, we said we were building a minimum of seven or eight new highways in Serbia this year. Moravia corridor is one of them. Construction's already started. And that part from Pojat to Kruševec will be over by next year. So, apart from the Moravia Corridor, you have the construction of the Preljina-Požega, which is under way. You have the construction, too, of Sremska Raca-Kuztin, which is under way, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, which is already four highways. Also built is the highway profile from New Belgrade to Surcin, which is the fifth. What we're looking to start this year, it's building the Fruskogorski Corridor, it's building the highway, if we succeed, Belgrade-Zrenjanin-Novi Sad and so on. The Danube highway, from Fireman to Golubac, is also a project to be launched if not this year, then no later than the beginning of next year. The promise we made, which is part of the 2025 project, is that Serbia will be networked with a new highway network by the end of 2025. And just as you can see, the promise that we made is coming true. Otherwise, this Moravia Corridor will also be the first digital highway, so optical cables, digital equipment will be installed along its route, which will provide free wireless internet for everyone. A few information for the citizens of Serbia, a few information for you. This Moravia Corridor provides for the construction of 117 major road facilities, 88 even bridges and underpasses, as well as 29 overpasses and 11 traffic loops. So a huge construction venture, but an undertaking that will give that part of Serbia a huge incentive for further development. At this moment, which are larger populated places, as I have prepared to tell you, so that I do not forget, which will connect this highway, from Cicevic, Stalac, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kraljev i Čačka. So the huge potential for the development of these cities, for the development of this part of Serbia, for new industrial zones, for new factories, for new jobs, for new projects. That's why it's very important for this project to be completed within the deadline. This money provides just part of the funding for the end of this first part. So, from Poiat to Kruševac, part of the Moravia Corridor will be finished by the end of next year. The entire Moravia Corridor, which is 112km long, will be completed by 2024. Dear MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we received information yesterday from President Vukic that the growth rate of our economy in the second quarter is 15%. We've never had a higher rate of growth in history, despite our decline last year, because of the Corona, or Kovida-19, was only minus 1%. So, a small decline last year, but already first quarter plus 1.7, second quarter plus 15%. So, with certainty, based on data from the first half of this year, we can say that our growth rate this year will be over 6%. With a growth rate of over 6%, these agreements will give us the opportunity to go beyond that, because we provide money for perhaps the most important infrastructure works that are taking place at this time in Serbia and which, at the end of the day, will be adopted by these agreements and will take place and relate, as I said at the beginning of my address, to both environmental and transport infrastructure, and to improving the efficiency of public administration. Three strong, important pillars that are the basis of our economic growth. If we continue to grow at these speeds, there is absolutely room for further salary increases, further increases in pensions, despite, I say, the biggest economic crisis caused by Kovid-19. You still see that many countries in the world suffer the consequences. Unlike those who are both more developed and larger than Serbia, Serbia is going unconstitutional and speedily forward. The growth rates of our economy confirm that. The opening of a factory, such as the MTU yesterday, when the president was at the foundation of the stone, confirms it. These are things that change Serbia. These agreements change Serbia. New infrastructure projects change Serbia. New jobs, higher salaries, higher pensions, higher minimum earnings the president also announced yesterday. We expect, of course, talks with both trade unions and employers' representatives, but these are, uh, honourable MPs, things that push Serbia forward. I'm proud of those results. There's a lot, a lot of work ahead of us. With this growth rate, we will certainly have a share of public debt in GDP below 60% by the end of the year, as promised, so below the level of Mastricht. We will be in front of you in November with a new budget for 2022 and what I wish for, too, if not more money is allocated for capital investments and for investing in new hospitals, in clinical centres, in schools, in kindergartens, in highways, in railways, everything that changes our Serbia and pushes it forward. Thank you very much and I remain available for the questions you may have.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8131	I thank Mr. Secretary. The word has a colleague Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, in front of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8132	Thank you, Your Honor. The honourable ministers with co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the proposals on the agenda today in front of the Members of the People's Parliament were discussed at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, where we decided to comply with the Constitution and the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. I would especially like to highlight one contract, a financial contract relating to the Niš gas interconnector – Dimitrovgrad – the Bulgarian border, as of course one of the preconditions for a balanced regional development which President Aleksandar Vucic has now promised when he was headed by the government and it is certainly commendable that it continues with the trend of development of every part of our country. Why do I want to point this out? The goal is, of course, the use of natural gas, both in households and in the area of economy. We are creating greater opportunities for modernising industrial processes and raising economic levels. We are taking care of sustainable development in the field of energy and the consequences of the greenhouse effect. On the other hand, due to its characteristics that natural gas has and environmental advantages, the use of natural gas in households will certainly improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens. This project will connect our pipeline system with neighbouring countries, allow natural gas to be added to the market. Therefore, the security of gas supply of the entire region will be improved and this project is therefore recognised as one of the six EU priority projects under the Energy Connecting Initiative of Central and Southeast Europe. Finally, if we remind ourselves that between 2003 and 2012, we had a situation that about 400,000 people were out of work and that our economy was in real trouble, we should say that we are now continuing to create opportunities for smaller municipalities, for smaller places that are not Belgrade, and this project will contribute to that, that the economy works better, that people are employed and that they live better. You, Minister, mentioned a 15% growth rate in the second quarter. Last night we could hear some more information from President Alexander Vukic, and we heard information that in the Corona era, which was marked by the crown, in the first six months we are growing foreign direct investment by around 19%. It's important news for Serbia. In order to have more of this news, we need to support these proposals that will, of course, affect faster development and economics and the economy and Serbia in general. I am absolutely sure that MPs will have a constructive debate today, especially our representative of the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, colleague Mircetic, who will handle these topics in a detailed way, and I will eventually take the opportunity to invite colleagues and colleagues to support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8133	Thank you. The next is the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8134	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, we were still on the Committee in May to discuss these agreements that you spoke about today, and what we were interested in as members of the Committee is what is the interest rate, what is the deadline for payment of these loans and the part relating to the margin itself. When we look at each of these important agreements that give us the realisation of projects that Serbia has not been able to dream of, which talk about infrastructure, green recovery and public administration, it has shown that these favourable loans, when we talk about the part of the loan, and we are talking about this, about supporting the EU for certain strategic projects which are a feature of the co-operation of many economic centres of power, of which Serbia depends a lot, at all, on its growth and development, and which have so far had a lot of problems to deal with firstly. When I talk about it, I think of the Agreement on Interconnector Nis – Dimitrovgrad relating to gas and gas interconnection because you are all aware that for many years the EU has been negotiating backwards with the Russian Federation how the pipeline will look, where it will pass through Europe and Serbia has always been there in transit, which, of course, suits us in this economic sense, but we have to wait to see for ourselves those projects that need to be implemented, and, on the other hand, Serbia has given us the opportunity to give so-called. Diversifications, energy diversifications, which means the possibility of accessing gas to many interested entities who want to work with gas, and to transport through our pipeline. This is of great importance to Serbia, and in this economic sense, because it will have certain revenues for the budget of the transport fee, but also for us to have very good bilateral co-operation with both EU members and the Russian Federation. Thus, we have endured all possible pressures from 2012 to today, and now that conditions have been met, this agreement is of great importance to Serbia. As you can see, the interconnector is funded by the European Union worth 60m euros. The second part is a loan from the European Investment Bank and it is of great importance to us. It should be said that up until now there are 280 thousand connections in Serbia, works 31 suppliers and we have, I will remind you, two weeks ago and three agreements relating to the gasification of the Borsko County, Kolubarski and part of Leskovac-Vranje, which shows essentially that, in addition to this rail-related infrastructure, which we have as of today is one of the proposals for the Agreement and the withdrawal of certain credit lines for the interoperability of development of Corridor Sava and Drina, as well as for the efficiency of the public sector, this green recovery, i.e. the implementation of that fourth package of the European Directive, which concerns environmental protection. We are, in fact, talking today about a major industrial step in Serbia, and of course, the figures show, when it comes to finance. What's news yesterday, Mr. Vucic said, I think the information is that in the first five months, the inflow of foreign direct investment is 1.73 billion euros, which says that with such dynamics and projections we should end this year over three billion euros of foreign direct investment, which tells you that Serbia is a desirable business destination in which both foreign and domestic investors want to open their production capacities. Obviously, the information that we have in the IT sector today, not 19,000 employees, but 38,000 employees working in this area, that the average wage in this sector is not more than 138 thousand dinars, but 184,000 dinars, says that next year the export of IT technology will cross the possible export of agricultural products. So, Serbia is really becoming a developed modern state, where the simple inflow of foreign direct investment is not only from the real sector of the creation of factories, but based on knowledge. It says that we are simply going at a high speed, that this is unconstitutional and that this inflow of foreign direct investment can be greater and that it includes a minority figure that will cover the entire Western Balkans region and that this development simply no one can stop it anymore. I think it is a great credit to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, that you had the understanding that somewhere along with Mr. Vukic, all of his ideas that he had, he had simply turned good bilateral agreements into concrete agreements, which would bring benefits to all citizens of Serbia and increased wages and pensions and a great momentum when it comes to the fourth industrial revolution. We're in college today. I'll remind you that focus is completely on technical colleges. You had 4,000 children on your entrance exam, on FON, where 800 students are received. Five to one he applied for a place to enroll in this university. All technical colleges, almost double and triple the students were interested in getting an index at these technical colleges, which shows, essentially, that all of what we're doing now, young people recognized and that it's actually the future of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8135	Thank you. The next is the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee has accepted in principle the proposal for an agreement between the Government and its Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. It is known that the UK has come out of the European Union and that the Republic of Serbia has been in a somewhat difficult position since its entry and lack of agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom, in terms of the placement of certain goods and services, in the United Kingdom market. First of all, I have to say, it's a very selective, very demanding, very interesting market, very grateful, if you're present on that market and you're very difficult to regain positions if you lose them on that market. Since the United Kingdom has stepped out of the EU, the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and of Serbian products present in the territory of England have ceased to apply, customs and other fiscal duties have been introduced. Therefore, in April this year, the Finance Committee agreed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the provisional application of the agreement between the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland and the Republic of Serbia, and I am very pleased that in relatively short time we now have a final agreement and a law that regulates this area, taking into account the particular importance of the agreement itself, not only the companies present here in Serbia, which are from Great Britain, but also that one of the biggest exports Serbia has is precisely from the area of agriculture, and not the cheapest ones, but the most sophisticated, economically profitable ones. The lack of this agreement would certainly make our farmers' return to the English market much more difficult. It is commendable that here after only a few months we have one text of this agreement in the National Assembly. I recommend that my fellow Members, the MPs, support this agreement in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8137	Thank you. The word is Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8138	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we have a set of legislative proposals, namely seven legislative proposals, in the light of various agreements, loans and other loan arrangements which we have heard relate to three very important areas of life that are important to each citizen. The issue of transport infrastructure, the issue of environmental protection and ultimately the issue of public sector improvement is something that is essential for every citizen on the one hand, and on the other hand for progress and further growth and economic stability of the state very important factors and parameters. With regard to transport infrastructure, we have seen that these credit arrangements will involve over- modernisation and recovery of railway infrastructure, which includes digitisation and all modern flows, including the rehabilitation of certain railway shares. It's for all praise. The railway is the most economical, cheapest kind of transport, both passengers and goods and certainly for the development of the country is very important. What is very significant is that it is necessary to make sure that the entire territory of the country is covered by railways. I'm going to give the information that I believe you all know, but simply to encourage the importance and urgency of the operation in relation to the lack of rail in the Sandzak area, the cities in particular that are in this part of the country. In fact, we have the fact that we have a railway line to Raska and then she breaks up and continues somewhere from Bistrica. So, the territory of cities and municipalities such as Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica is not covered by railways. You yourself stated in the presentation that any investment or any competitiveness in terms of investment in areas is unimaginable if there is no adequate travel, and therefore railway infrastructure. We can say that Novi Pazar may be a unique case of a city that has about 120,000 inhabitants, not only in the country, but also in the region, without railways. It was, historically, an attempt to build a railway track, but they were about to say infamously, or in this field, nothing was done. The more serious such an attempt was about half of the last century in 1949, 1950, in fact, the communist authorities and did documentation and project and the construction of this railway began, however, only after a few months the works were suspended under the pretext that road traffic would be threatened and more concrete movement, unfortunately, after that it did not actually occur. So, we can't talk about the development of this neighborhood or any part of the country unless we have adequate infrastructure except railways. It's a lot of bad and road infrastructure. The truth that this government is an accent and its action and good will has shown in order to solve these problems, but concrete results since these are important and very demanding projects we expect only to see somewhere in the future. So it is very important to point out from this point of view that the citizens of Sandzak, of this part of the country, expect full support, because if the continuity of previous policies has been absolutely discriminatory and discriminatory towards this part of the country, we hope and expect, and we have a good indicator that this will not be the policy of this government, in addition to the agreement that the Justice and Reconciliation Party has signed with the SNS, guarantees a series of these crucial issues of life that are very important to the Sandzak citizens themselves, namely all cities and municipalities in this part of the country. On the other hand, the question of the environment, the preservation of the environment, is just a question of environmentalism, which we had in the Assembly itself, through the adoption of different legal acts. The protection of the environment should be and is one of the strategic objectives and tasks, primarily of every man on planet Earth, and on the other hand, it is necessary to show determination and will by the system, i.e. the states that manage certain goods. For what? Well, environmental protection is, in fact, a stockpile to future generations, and the obligation of us who now consume and use the earth's resources that we should not spend them unintendedly, unreservedly, not thinking, irrationally, but having a responsible relationship with nature itself. It seems to me that as mankind progresses in technological and other terms, nature on the other hand is becoming increasingly endangered. It is very important to monitor global and European flows in this regard, and certainly the state shows it through the adoption of both a green agenda and the implementation of everything it implies, but also a number of other documents. On the other hand, implementation of this is very important, just to bring down from the level of central government towards local self-government everything that is adopted as a legislative act is very important. So the implementation of this and the application at the bar if all that is brought is respected is very important. Perhaps these very smaller environments are an example of where things should be fixed and how important it is that the supervisory role of the state itself and the system in terms of rational use of all the resources that nature gives us. In this regard she mentioned and welcomed, in fact, the recent signing of the Treaty on the Construction of Heat in Novi Pazar on Biomass, that is something that will be significant, it is a very expensive project, a multimillion-dollar project, but very important for the simple reason that New Pazar is unfortunately at the top of the very scale of cities with different types of pollution, other negative receipts, and there are many factors that contribute to this...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8139	My colleague, just time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8140	I'm authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8141	Six minutes is for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8142	I'm an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8143	Well, then we've got a mistake here. All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8144	All right, thank you. So, by signing this significant Biomass Construction Treaty for Novi Pazar will mean a lot, for the simple reason that the current heat is located in the city's narrow center, we can say, and the use of the lube as a basic talk which is a much larger pollutant than biomass, or energy that will mean conservation of the environment, and it will certainly be designed, planned and done outside the populated place, which is very important. So here we recognize the government's insistence that it is precisely through the principle of recognising what is the key need of a particular area that just finds a model and a way to solve this issue in this way. On the other hand, I said that a number of segments have contributed precisely to pollution and poor quality overall, if we can say, the environment in Novi Pazar is probably also disrespect, I just said, acts, or legal procedures that are being brought to the plant, and their application to the local one is sometimes scheduled. In recent years Novi Pazar has been a city built with great intensity, the expansion of a large number of construction facilities, especially multi-story buildings, residential buildings are visible. This is good in terms of and significant in terms of the progress of the construction sector. On the other hand, there is the impression that all these buildings that have been erected are not built in accordance with regulations or what should be respected in terms of construction, and in particular what each of these contracts implies or has one segment relating to environmental effects. These buildings, multi-story buildings usually appear where an adequate space is found, in the sense that someone wants to sell one or two salaries, an adequate space is found and the building is erected. Most of these buildings don't have adequate parking lots, on the other hand, that I'm not talking about greenery around these buildings or the possibility of having a little park or a place where kids will play. From this point of view, it is very important to influence the elements, i.e. the authorities in the local government, that we take this issue a little bit more seriously, because it seems that greenness persists in replacing concrete, and this is not a good solution and a good way of working. I'll also mention that, as I said earlier, there are about 120,000 inhabitants, and there's only one park of diameters maybe 150 meters. Let me also say that nothing is better in the next Tutin where you literally don't have an arranged park. So we lack planic greenery, planting trees, but also greening areas that will thus benefit the citizens themselves multiplely and in terms of air pollution and, on the other hand, new high temperatures, we know that with only the presence of greenery, it is much easier to cross all climate change that is once drastic and very sudden. In this direction, it is very important to keep an eye on the implementation of legal acts at the place itself. As far as the highway itself is concerned, the Moravski Corridor, we heard from the minister how much, what modern traffic is actually going to represent this highway and that's something that's very important. On the other hand, we express hope that the route of the Požega-Boljare highway, which is promised to cross the cave highland, will bring this area back to life with all the needs I spoke about, because the highway is also a form of communication and integration with the centres and with all major economic operators, which is very important for the citizens of this region. Along the highway, along with an adequate railway that would be more useful to this area in terms of, say, the transfer of goods than it might be in terms of passenger transport itself, because it is known that this area is very rich and commercial and that people in this area have an extremely developed commercial spirit and that on the other hand they are very active, and on the other hand, the cave highlands is actually one base of healthy nature from where we can also use and export as agricultural products, so all other resources that are really on the cave highlands there. In this direction, we welcome the definitely continued construction of highways and the continued networking of the country. The issue of public sector promotion is very important through the creation of improvements in the public sector, and will primarily reflect transparency, efficiency in public procurement, which is very important, more rational and better management of elements or social protection content, which is very important and with a reduction in bureaucracy, this is something that will certainly bring concrete results to citizens and what they will feel through their daily lives. In this respect, I say that all three arrangements are credit-related, in fact three fields that cover, credit arrangements are very important and significant, we express full support, with the hope that we need to see an even more intense and determined issue of equal regional development and that simply every part of the country is equally developed and that we actually draw from each part of the country resources that are specific, adequate for a certain end. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8145	I appreciate the exposure. The next is the National MP of Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8146	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing a series of agreements, what the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland agreement on co-operation, partnership and trade, which was necessary because the UK has left the EU, and Serbia's agreements with the EU itself cease to apply as agreements between Serbia and the UK. But, of course, we are also discussing a series of agreements with relevant financial institutions related to financial support, the development of large infrastructure projects, such as the Moravia Corridor, such as the development of railway infrastructure and many other infrastructure agreements. Of course, for all these agreements in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will vote in favour, i.e. to support these agreements. Serbia today is building and developing its infrastructure more than ever. That wouldn't be if Serbia wasn't economically stable and Serbia's public finances weren't under control. We are witnessing the strong economic development of Serbia even at the time of the Aaron virus pandemic, and it encourages and rejoices with the fact that in the second quarter of this year, there has been a record of economic growth of as much as 15.2%, which is significantly more than 10.6%, if I'm not mistaken. As you said, Mr. Minister, it means that with certainty at the end of the year, our country will record economic growth that will be greater than 6%. Such strong economic growth wouldn't have existed if it hadn't been for the difficult economic reforms that our country had drawn from the claws of bankruptcy put us precisely those who today criticise everything that is happening in Serbia and who lie and muddy Serbia in international institutions. This kind of economic growth wouldn't have existed if there hadn't been this many direct foreign investments. According to UN data at the time, Serbia is the third leading economy in transition by inflow of foreign direct investment in 2020 totaling 3.44 billion. We have also heard that in 2021 alone, this amount of direct foreign investment has reached 1.5 billion and that is all more than all the countries in our environment combined. What I would point out here is that even the biggest industrial giants from Germany's most economically developed country have just chosen Serbia as the best place to invest. We could see this yesterday in Pazova, where the construction of the factory "Tuv" started, we could see it less than a month ago in Jagodina where the factory "Fisher" was opened by President Vukic and Dragan Markovic Palma. This first installs and builds air-industry engines, the second I mentioned in Jagodina for car parts "Mercedes" and "BMV". So it's high-tech. Today, around 70,000 workers work in German factories in Serbia. If Serbia's economy wasn't good, if Serbia's economy wasn't strong, if the course wasn't stable, if Serbia wasn't a state that was politically stable, economically safe, healthy, certainly this German, and all other investments wouldn't come to Serbia to this extent. It is the best argument in favour of the claims I have made a little while ago, that Serbia is successful today and that Serbia is today, without false modesty, political, economic, military and every other leader in the region. Of course, Serbia is a partner today, not a subject, and Serbia is recognised today as a serious and responsible state. Of course, many people don't answer that. Some forces are not responding because Serbia can no longer manipulate, neighbours because in every respect we have overcome them and we achieve better results than they are, and these domestic intrinsics of strong and strong Serbia have nothing to ask for in such a Serbia. And while it is clear to us that strong Serbia is not responding to those who would justify their participation in NATO bombing Serbia, we are witnessing pressure from our neighbours, neighbours, who have been actively involved in a campaign of pressure on Serbia lately, and while this is somehow expected and expected by Croatia, Bosniak leaders in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a little surprised by the pressure of those who came to power in their country on the wings of the authority of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the authority of the well-reserved Metropolitan Amphilochy. They also today refuse to sign an agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church and make resolutions harmful to the interests of Serbia and Serbian citizens. To them, I can only direct the wise words of Peter Petrovic: that each man was born to die once, and that honor and shame live forever. As long as I'm at the Serbian Orthodox Church, I'd just like to have a little dyspression for a little while. I would also like to inform you people's MPs, as well as the public of Serbia, that tomorrow at 8:45 p.m. at St John's Temple in Končarevo, sacred archeological liturgy will be served. The Holy Archaeological liturgy will serve His Holiness the Patriarch of Porphyria and the bishops of Forest Mr. John, and this one among all the believers of the forest eparchy to attend the liturgy. But to return to the pressures that Serbia is under these days. In addition to the pressure on the outside, we can testify to the growing and increasingly faceless lies and criticisms of the opposition's actions, which do not choose words, not choosing lies, mudring Serbia in front of both the domestic public and international institutions, and precisely those during whose authority Serbia was in front of bankruptcy. You and those people are talking about how Serbia is over-indebted today, those who brought Serbia to the brink of bankruptcy, who took credits so that they could pay their salaries, maintain liquid liquidity and take loans at seven or more percent interest, you and such are criticising that we take loans exclusively and only for capital infrastructure projects. We are accused of overindebtedness at a time when Serbia is at the level of debt of 58% of gross domestic product, and that, for example, today is one Germany at 2.2m euros or 80% of gross domestic duty, or one Italy that is at 180% or Greece, which is even at 343% of public debt. Is the team gathered exclusively on personal interests and the protection of private businesses criticising Serbia today, which is the average salary in Serbia above 500 euros or, as we could hear, in January 2022, 612 euros or perhaps that the minimum wage or minimum wage will be over 300 euros or more than 35,000 dinars by the end of the year? Or are they criticizing maybe an increase in pensions? Or might they criticise that the average salary in Belgrade will be 770 euros in January 2020? Or they're criticizing maybe that our deficit in the first five months of this year is significantly less than planned, or that we've had revenue of 533,8 billion, expenditures of 633.6 billion, or that our deficit is 99.8 billion, which is significantly less than the planned 120 billion dinars. Of course, they are bothered by the successful Serbia, because in this and such successful Serbia they have nothing to look for. We will be guided by wise words - if you are successful, you will have false friends and real enemies, but be successful in spite of that. What could have been heard at the National Assembly College this morning, I see that in the Agenda negotiations through the intervention of European parliamentarians, you know, the 9th and 10th negotiations on electoral conditions, that, that team has put on the agenda somewhere -- a political narrative. I'm looking forward to it because I'm going to ask Mr. Mediator, the Europarliamentaries, do they support the political narrative of Dragan Gilas? Do they support the political narrative of Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic and others alike? A political narrative of lynch, lies, insults of the worst kind. A political narrative that threatens families, relatives of political inexperiences. A political narrative to tell the most disgusting lies against those who don't think like them. Our political narrative, of course, will be economics, will be living standards, pensions, wages, investments, factories, roads, hospitals, rural care, farmers. Our narrative will be the Moravia Corridor, the rapid railways and other foreign investments, and we leave them their circle of corruption and their mud and their political narrative. As the president of Unity Serbia, Dragan Markovic Palma, said in time -- the basic task of politics is to care for every citizen. We will also continue to take care and take care of every citizen, and leave them to care for their huge capital and care for their business. Of course, the Unique Serbia, as I have already said, will support all these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8147	Thank you. The next is MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8148	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected co-workers of ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would first say something about the importance of an agreement Serbia signed with the UK. It was clear when the UK left the European people's family after 47 years in this economic sense, to say, it was clear that this move would leave the consequences of further economic activities not only between the UK and the Member States of the European Union, but also between the UK and those countries that are in the process of joining the EU. It is obviously a complex business, not only of administrative nature, but of redefining economic relations. The very fact that the process has lasted since 2016 when the UK people voted in a referendum to leave the EU, so that it is completed by the end of 2020, speaks of the complexity of the UK's EU exit process. It is, of course, a major blow to the EU's single market, when one powerful economy comes out of it. A trade co-operation agreement between Serbia and Great Britain was signed two and a half months ago and we thus warned serious disturbances that could have happened if this agreement hadn't happened. First of all, what does this agreement mean in practice? We have, in this way, returned the customs rate to that level when we talk about the UK's relationship to the one where the UK was within the European Union and this was valid until 1 January 2021. Also, another important thing is that the agreement implies that quotas for agricultural products are kept, and we all know that a certain number of agricultural producers place part of their range on the UK market. In this way, we will preserve the ties established by the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2008. We will preserve preferential conditions in trade and these are all good grounds for the development of further business activities between Serbia and the UK. It is important that companies from Serbia, but from the United Kingdom, make their interests known, that at the end of the day citizens of both countries are satisfied, as end consumers, as end-users of services and goods. Our companies will retain the position of a respectable supplier, and I will remind you that the UK is in 21st place when we talk about our export destinations. Last year, exports of our services to the UK amounted to 518m euros, and in that exchange we also achieved a certain foreign trade surplus. The interest of the company in both countries is to return to the level of co-operation that was in place before the exit of the UK from the European Union, not only to return the dynamics of external trade relations to that level, but of course the interest of all is to improve this co-operation. This agreement will warn many of the problems that would exist in real terms if we didn't have this kind of agreement, if we didn't have many companies stopping their jobs, primarily because of the change in the external trade regime, customs and imports would be at a significant percentage higher than it was by the end of 2020, we could see for the first few months of this year. We're avoiding this complications with the customs procedure. The businessmen well know what kind of problem can arise when the goods are kept at the border, when the goods are waiting for a few days on customs, and this agreement removes this kind of problem. This also preserved the position of our exporters, which they had long built on the British market. I must say that this is a very demanding market, a liberal market and their competitiveness has been preserved above all. The economies of both countries now know clear rules that will allow them to plan their business in the future on the basis of which they will be able to create some of their long-term strategies. This made it impossible for any delay in trade and the danger of turning the UK market to other suppliers, rather than suppliers from Serbia, due to the potential impasse. I'll remind you that we export cars and frozen fruit to the British market the most, and that's actually what I said at the beginning, and why it's important that we keep quotas when we talk about exporting agricultural products. We are not the only ones who have signed such an agreement to sign such an agreement with the UK, it is waiting for certain countries in the region. The same was done by countries that were EU members and the European Parliament also had to ratify one such agreement and this was the last step in the long-standing process of defining trade conditions between the UK and the other 27 EU members. Sam Bregzit has disrupted the functioning of the system in Britain, and it is estimated that it will take several years for the UK market to adapt to new conditions. The state must always be prepared to help its entrepreneurs, and it is important that this kind of agreement goes in that direction. We're helping all of our export-oriented companies. We find it very important to work to create a stable legal framework, a legal framework that will suit the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We from SDPS have recently promoted our plan and strategy to help small and medium-sized enterprises, because we believe that they are the backbone of the development of each society, because small and medium-sized enterprises are precisely specific to their flexibility, by their vitality, by the innovations they always bring into business. I'm not going to talk specifically about these measures right now, but I just wanted to point out that it's important that the state listens to the needs of companies on its market, and how important this is also the agreement, or contract that we're going to sign, which refers to the construction of a highway on the Preljina-Poise section. When we talk about traffic infrastructure, we always think that building a highway is a magnet for big companies, for foreign investors coming to Serbia. That is true, but on the other hand, the construction of the highway helps develop small and medium-sized enterprises in the region where highways and constructions are being built, even in this part of central Serbia. I don't have to point out that the Moravia Corridor is being built in accordance with the most modern standards. I want to say what's important to the people on the ground, something about the concrete advantages of building this highway. I'll make one comparison first. If we take the car from Preljina to Pojat for this we'll need about two hours of driving. By building a highway of 110, 112 kilometers, we'll be crossing that same stock in about 50 minutes, which is twice as much as twice the time we'll save. Secondly, the construction of the Moravia Corridor also implies greater security in traffic because it will be more quality in August, the wider lanes that drivers drive. The Moravia Corridor will connect three counties of Moravisky, Raški and Rasinski. Also, a large number of companies are based in this part of Serbia and will certainly have a positive impact on the business of these companies, it will affect their competitiveness, but this part of the country, as I have already said, will be more attractive to the arrival of foreign investors. We can easily see how much traffic infrastructure is important for central Serbia. I'll just point out that due to poor privatisation in this part of Serbia, a large number of factories have been shut down, thousands of workers are out of work. The construction of Milos Veliki highway itself was an incentive for investment in this part of Serbia. More than 4,500 jobs have been opened in my city of Kralje, only two factories. And the number will grow in the coming period and more than 7,000 workers will be employed, and the same situation is also in Cačka and Krusevec, so in these parts of Serbia where a new highway is built. In addition, work on the Moravia Corridor is under way. In the good part there will be a part of our domestic construction operation and it is a poor good wind in the back for our builders. Positive effects will also be reflected on manufacturers and sellers of construction material. In this part of Serbia just where the Moorski Koridor route is passing is also a significant number of tourist destinations, there is the Mataruska Banja, where we record the largest number of visitors in Serbia, the largest number of overnight stays is recorded right in Vrnjak Banja. We all know that when we talk about traffic infrastructure and its relation to tourism that every dinar invested in tourism infrastructure returns multiple times. Strategicly, the Moravia Corridor is important for another reason. He will connect Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. In this way, we round up one continent in a successful way, completes the traffic infrastructure in this part of Serbia. Already now it is part of the stake from Belgrade to Preljina, just over 100km, building a share towards Požega. This is one very important road because from Požega further the highway is on the double, one towards Bolari, according to Montenegro, where we will get one new route to Belgrade-South Adriatic, the other heading towards Kotroman and that will be part of the future Belgrade-Sarajevo highway. The Moravia Corridor is given importance, given that two years ago in Brodjevci near Kraljevci and near Cačka, the Morava airport was opened. This is how we get one quality, road and rail and air infrastructure in this part of Serbia. These are excellent conditions for the development of this region, with these contributions and even regional development. Finally, I will say something about a loan agreement between the French Agency for the Development of the Republic of Serbia concerning the implementation of a climate-resistant urban environment programme. We simply live in a time where the topic of climate change is very important. Frequent droughts, fires, heat waves, and floods warn us not to ignore the impact of climate change on the living world. Ecology, i.e. improving the environment, quality of air and citizens' health in this context, must be the priorities of our policy. I think now that we're talking about it, it's no longer a question of whether or not we want to, whether we want to, whether we don't want to, but we're forced to base our economic development on the concept so that we rely on green energy, on renewable energy sources and on innovation in that area, because that's the only way we can open as much so-called. green jobs. Also, we gain more from the financial aspect this way when we invest in renewable energy sources, when we take into account the effects of climate change, because the damages are from potential floods, or other natural disasters, so much to measure in billions of euros and overcome all investments in this area that we are now based on. Of course, in the first place, there must be health in people when we talk about ecology. I just mentioned this financial aspect of it all on the way. We are taking care of the health of all Serbian citizens. This is one of the reasons why SDPS MPs will support other agreements on the agenda in addition to this contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8149	Thank you. Now, before the next speaker only to agree to Article 27 and Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform all Members of the People's Parliament that we will be working after 18.00 hours today, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now, MP Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8150	Thank you, Chairman. The respected chairman and respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and citizens of Serbia, is pleased when it comes to infrastructure projects and I will only talk about it today. That's three from this package, but I'm sure the SPS will vote for all these laws. Of course, the roads have already reached such a level that we can boast in Europe as well. The railroad is on the rise, and that's good and these two laws relating to the railway are very important ministers. Especially important because we're finishing up part of the railroad to Novi Sad, and it's now preparing for a piece of the railway from Belgrade to Nis, so that whole package must be covered in general and that's good from these loans, because I see that the money is provided for that. I repeat, I have nothing against Chinese and Russian projects, and of course not Frenchophyll, to understand each other, but it's good for the French to get involved, because they're still the world's technology in it, and they can help us a lot. So, the part of Belgrade -- Nis, is characteristic of having various ideas and projects on it, and I would only repeat one thing because of you, a highway through Serbia, should be 200km of projected speed, for 160km of commercial speed and a two-wheel line for mixed traffic and electrified. It's a project mission in one sentence. Everything else or some other ideas aren't good. Today already on the master's track from Belgrade to Nis, we have a dozen shares of various, even somewhere construction starts, and it's not for you, it's more for young Momirovic, who I've turned his attention to, for speeds below 160km, and it's not good. Even where it's possible to go to 200, at project speed, that's what we should do, and that's why I want to tell you more about it, because the MPs know it well. So it's very important from these funds, to get a piece of the funds right away and do a complete study to start by defining exactly where we really need to have miles less than 200 and it has to be really convincing. I'm afraid we're not going to make a mistake, because we've already put up tenders somewhere, these old laws that were good at the time, but today when we have an offer of Europe of those 700 million, as it's always announced, I think it would be good to balance it all out, in the end, that's what Europe is going to ask of us. I see these two great laws here, and that's their biggest, most important to me, and also important are the centres of Belgrade and Nis. It's good to get into the realisation of Prokop, as far as I know, an investor who's doing the job and having the Prokop station finished and it's good to finish the technical road station in Zemun, and it's good that the Niski node in the package is already starting to realize and prepare, because it's very important. Nicely said in the law, without these technological innovations, the highway from Subotica, or Budapest via Belgrade and Nis, will not be used properly. I'm afraid we don't throw away any of the millions we've thrown so far, I admit it, because we've been patching things up all the time. I tell my younger colleagues when they're criticizing us as much as we couldn't do -- children, there were two conditions, here's the minister, to praise him, for the realization of such projects, which is the political will and political stability of the country and the money, which we have today, as rarely when after World War II. Well, today's government and government are providing it, and that's why we can do it. I remember all these events from the '60s, we've had either one or the other in different stages, and even during the time of the Socialists, from 1990 to 2000. Every government has cut, from government to government for four years, so we haven't been able to finish all that. Today, here, for 10 years in continuity these projects are being done. That's good. Another thing, very important, Minister, when it comes to these two railway projects, to be done by our experts, along with the French. It's about the subway. Don't let it happen, I'm not criticizing, I've turned my attention to Minister Momirovic. For example, we agreed on a Russian loan for the Belgrade-Bar railway, or Belgrade-Gostun, and gave the Russians a project. This railroad is a masterpiece of world construction. Serbian companies and projectors worked. And now the Russians are hiring foreign firms to design. That's ridiculous. I'm basically against only foreigners designing such large infrastructure projects. That's what you have to decide, because in the end you're probably negotiating about it and always remind this young minister that it's important for our designers to take part in the realization of these projects. What is very important, especially when it comes to the track that needs to be technological innovation not only in Serbia but in this part of the world and Europe, it is the first rapid track in this part of Eastern Europe. It's a technological revolution, and on this project, it's an honor. As far as the Moravian Corridor is concerned, there's nothing to say. I think that the roads are deep into the people and that people realize it, maybe they should stop a little bit, there are other categorized roads, remind the Drobnjak not to make highways everywhere. But I don't want to get into it. Now it's done, as far as I know, a traffic development study over the next 10 years. I think you have it. Some companies have been selected, even three foreign companies. But our projectors must appear. So now's the time. For example, Mika Jokic came out of Valjev, Valjevo-Loznica, and we forgot the railway and, of course, Mrs Misala, Raška-Pazar. I designed it at least twice, so we didn't do it. That's the program that's supposed to get those two stripes, that's from the ones that haven't entered by now, I don't know which one they've entered, but I guess it's covered a lot of it, so with that railroad traffic comes back to life. One more thing, very important, ministers, people who deal with development have to explain to people that all of these projects on the Master's 10, are profitable, that they're high levels of rentability, because I don't think there's so much criticism around the roads even by the opposition anymore, but, I remember Corridor 10, ten times we've calculated cost-effectiveness, and when they've seen the rate of profitability just for these last 350 km, 10, 15 or I don't know how much they've all said -- well, let's go, we're investing a billion and a half, the amount we've invested in Corridor 10, in 10 years 150 million returns to those 150 million that we've had, that the minister understands and we're paying back the credit in 10 years. It's a high rate of rentability. All these projects that are now being done have such a rate of rentability. I guarantee that's the case with the railroad, but there's got to be a serious study for the entire track to Nis, so I'm not going to comment on it, so we're going to see what happens next, from Nis to Presevo, just to join up for the project as a railroad of high speeds. So much and thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8151	Thank you. The next is MP Vuk Mircetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8152	Thank you. Dear chairman, respected ministers with co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing eight agreements and projects of great importance for the Republic of Serbia and whose value is, as Minister Mali said this morning, 768.8m euros. We had the opportunity to hear some technical details from the minister and therefore these agreements and projects are important for the Republic of Serbia. However, it is important to note that these projects are important for the region as they improve infrastructure, but also society in general, if we are talking about projects that seek to increase resilience to future risks associated with climate change. Although the agreements and projects we are talking about today and discussing are quite extensive, we have a much easier part of the job today. I'm coming to a discussion in the tide is a fruit of hard work. Fellow Members and fellow MPs know that these are not the first agreements and projects we are discussing here at the tide, this is just a continuation of work to create a better future and a clear indication that Serbia is developing and moving forward. That speaks enough about Serbia's position in the world. As we know, Serbia today has friends in both the east and the west. One of our friends is the United Kingdom, with which we have been fostering relations since 1837, when the first bilateral agreement was signed. Co-operation with the UK is extremely important for the Republic of Serbia. According to the ministry's resolution, the trade in goods has been doubled over the past 10 years, and in 2017 it exceeds half a billion euros. So we see that in 10 years we've been able to double the value of the trade. If we are talking about the previous period, just comparisons, when the president of Serbia was prime minister of Serbia, does anyone remember what the average salary was? The average salary was 330 euros. One dedicated and persistent work by President Aleksandr Vukic and his team in March of this year, despite the global problem that arose due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, the average salary was as much as 555 euros and we expect it to be 612 euros in January 2022. In addition, we are working to further raise salaries, with a desire to keep the minimum of 300 euros by the end of this year. Imagine the situation now, we had an average salary of 330 euros, with the disaster financing left behind by the former regime's representatives, and now, in 2021, we're talking about the minimum wage of 300 euros by the end of the year. So just compare the facts. On the one hand, people who used to work for a minimumer received 15,000 dinars, and by the end of this year should receive a minimumer of 35,000 dinars. And go back to working with the United Kingdom. The historic maximum in the trade was reached in 2019 and it was 557.4m euros. I'm only saying this to see the importance of co-operation with the UK. The same year, in 2019, recorded the record value of our exports to the UK, which is 325.6m euros, which is 20.6% growth. We all know how much the coronal pandemic at global level has slowed everything down, but another indicator is that the Republic of Serbia has done well in this period and the fact that last year the value of total bilateral exchange was 529.4m euros, down from a minimum of 5%. On the other hand, according to official data from the National Bank of Serbia, the investment of United Kingdom residents in Serbia since 2010, with the third quarter of 2020, is 501.8m euros. It is one of the agreements we are talking about today that is also an agreement with the United Kingdom on trade, partnership in trade and co-operation with the corresponding declarations. What is the essence of this agreement? You've heard the relationship we've had with the United Kingdom so far. You've seen what our trade was, how much it was worth, and you've seen that we've been able to double in the last ten years the value of the trade. In the previous period of co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the United Kingdom was based on the SAA, therefore, an Agreement on Co-operation and Association, which because the United Kingdom has left the EU has ceased to apply. Now, the point is to enable the same regulatory form that we had with the United Kingdom before the SAA ceased to apply in that sense. The authorities covered by this agreement concern general state co-operation, co-operation in international organisations, security policy and the overall economic plan. I will allow myself to notice that most of this agreement applies to the economy and if we look at the results of this year, we have a growth in exports to the United Kingdom in the first four months. It is clear that we must enable our businesses to continue co-operation and it is necessary to maintain the same level of liberalisation of the trade in services and goods that existed before and was regulated by the SAA. If we didn't conclude, if we didn't conclude this agreement, the most endangered would be agriculture, or the agrarian industry, because the good portion of exports to the United Kingdom refers to raspberries, blackberries and others. The government of the Republic of Serbia has responded in due time to protect our interests in the United Kingdom market and many countries are struggling to gain the status that we are getting with this agreement. We get one serious and big market, and any delay would be extremely bad for our economy, because if we lose a particular market once, we can get it back, very hard, but we can get it back, and it costs us a lot more than trying to keep it, and we, as a safe and responsible authority, want to provide our citizens with the best conditions for business, and that is why this agreement today is in front of us for discussion in the tide. Several of the projects we are talking about today, we are discussing, is about improving the infrastructure in Serbia. The first project I'm going to talk about is the first digital highway in Serbia. It is highway E 761 from Pojat to Preljina or Moravia Corridor, 112km long, which has multiple significance at the level of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, it connects the central parts of Serbia with the east and west directions, i.e. the two most significant routes of the state, corridors 10 and 11, belonging to the European road network. For this corridor, it is important to remind that the E75 highway, which matches the C arm of Pan-European Corridor 10, through which it connects with Belgrade and Central and Western Europe in the south and with the southern parts of the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia, Bulgaria, further, if we go further, the Middle East, Asia, etc. It is an important and planned route of highway E763, Belgrade -- the southern Adriatic, with which it is planned to connect this corridor. This route would give the region the shortest link with Western Serbia, Montenegro, and via the port of Bar and southern Italy, as well as the sea ports of the Adriatic and Mediterranean. It is also one of the priorities set out in the plan "Serbia 2025". I thank the Corridors of Serbia for giving me both a map and detailed information for the purposes of today's session. Here, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be seen better, is a slightly larger format, but I would be glad to pass the entire corridor, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see what we're talking about on the map. As we can see, the corridor goes from Pojat to Preljina and the route from Pojat to Preljina connects the territory of several municipalities and cities with almost half a million inhabitants. So a large number of inhabitants are gravitating this corridor and will have great significance from this corridor. These are: Cicevic, Varvarin, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vranjačka Banja, Kraljevo, Čačak. If we are talking about connecting with the network of state and local roads, there are plans for deniveled intersections, if we go in order, so, from Pojat to Preljina_Pojate, Cicevic, Kruševac East, Kruševac West, Velika Drenova, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Vrba, Kamijoor, Adrani and Preljina. I hope the citizens of the Republic of Serbia could see what the corridor looks like on the map. A total of 117 bridges were planned on the highway itself, according to Minister Mali, underpass and underpass in the total length of 11.3km. As part of the realization of the project, the Moravski Corridor will also implement the hydro-technical arrangement of West Morava and this is very important to mention. By doing so, the construction of this traffic facility improves infrastructure and increases the availability of municipal centres and economic areas, but also provides tourism organisations with the possibility of further development of economic and tourism potentials. When we talk about improving and modernising infrastructure, as well as improving institutional capacities in the Republic of Serbia, we must say that this is of multiple importance for the Republic of Serbia, but also for the region. One of the projects we are talking about today is a project to modernise the railway sector in Serbia, the first phase. The aim of this project is to increase the efficiency and security of existing railway assets and improve the governance and institutional capacity of the railway sector. And the improvement of this sector is of paramount importance to the Republic of Serbia, but also to the region, because it also brings indirect contributions to both improving and increasing living standards, because if we connect with the region we have a further chance of more traffic on goods, which is the essence of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Another one of the projects that is important for the Republic of Serbia and the region, one of the priority projects that provides for the integration of the pipeline system of the Republic of Serbia with neighbouring countries, is the construction of a Niš-Dimitrovgrad gas interconnector – the Bulgarian border. By building this interconnector, which is 109 kilometers long, it allows natural gas to be added to the market and from other supply routes, and the gas pipeline capacity itself is 1.8 billion cubic metres, which means it will be able to meet about 80% of the current natural gas needs. I want to remind the public why this is so important. First, there are a number of limiting factors in the development of this part of energy. There is no pipeline network in all parts of the country, there is a marked seasonal imbalance in consumption, and the transit costs themselves are high. One problem is that domestic production covers some 20% of domestic consumption, and we all know that natural gas is such an energy that has a distinct technical and ecological advantage compared to other conventional fuels. If we look at only one household, the use of natural gas can satisfy between 80% and 85% of energy needs for some budgets. The fact is also that natural gas is a dominant import energy in which the transport system is limited capacity, so it is necessary to enable a system that allows natural gas to be used for combined electricity and heat consumption. As we can see, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the construction of this interconnector is of paramount importance, as it improves the security of the supply of the Republic of Serbia, but we are going back to the region as well. This will include both the region and the Republic of Serbia. So, by building this interconnector, we are not only helping our citizens, but also helping the region, because we are aware, we repeat it again, and we are proud to point out that the Republic of Serbia will be able to move forward and only make progress if the region is progressing. It is important to note, Minister Mali said, that this project has been recognised as one of the six EU priority projects under the Energy Connecting Initiative of Central and Southeast Europe. We were talking about benefites. I'll just take a quick look at it one more time. The construction of this interconnector has multiple benefits. If we build it, we can expect more intensive use of natural gas in the wide-use sector, more efficient and more environmentally acceptable use of energy, as well as reduction of polluting matter. On the other hand, if we look at the possibility of using gas in the economy, we will see that there are greater possibilities for modernising and increasing the economics of many industrial processes, as well as an additional contribution to sustainable development in all sectors of the economy, which also reduces the impact on climate change and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. It is clear from all that I have stated that the Republic of Serbia is aware of climate change and is working intensively to provide environments that would mitigate impact, or negative impact on climate change. With this in mind, today we have two agreements dealing with increasing the resistance of the Republic of Serbia to future and potential risks associated with climate change. One refers to Serbia's programme support to boost climate resistance, while the other refers to a programme aimed at green recovery. Once again, there is a clear commitment of the Republic of Serbia to the green agenda. When we talk about risks that have been increased due to climate change, we should also mention floods and droughts. It is important to note that the Republic of Serbia and this problem have been approached strategically. The last project I will talk about is a project of integrated development of the Sava and Drina River corridor, whose intention is to reduce the risk of floods and droughts, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to improve and accelerate economic co-operation in the Western Balkans and strengthen the institutions and procedures through which the countries through which these two rivers work. This project aims to achieve the potential of economic growth while at the same time protecting the community from flood and drought damage, but allows, and we return to tourism again, the development of tourism on the corridors of these two rivers. For the very end, I want to point out once again the importance of today's agreements and projects. So, on the one hand, they talk about a strategic approach to solving problems and the fact that there is a serious and committed work behind them, and on the other hand today's agreements also talk about the clear intention of the Republic of Serbia to provide an adequate business environment in which it is possible to advance. This is a real example of the policy that Aleksandar Vucic and we all are fighting with him, a real example of how we change Serbia, because if we provide a good business environment, there are conditions for new jobs, new factories, new roads, as well as an increase in wages and pensions. We'll remind you that the growth rate in the first quarter of this year was amazing 15%. I will also remind you that the average salary, when Aleksandar Vukic became prime minister, was 330 euros, while in March this year the average salary was 555 euros. We expect, we will not stop there, that in January 2022, the average salary will be as much as 612 euros. So not so long ago, the minimum is, I'm going to do it again, because it was very important, it was 15,000 dinars. By the end of this year, we plan to make the minimum minimum wage of 35,000 dinars. It is the first time in the history of the Republic of Serbia that the minimum one will be that much. These are the facts that we here today and we need to talk, and we need to talk, and we need to talk. Of course, neither this time nor any last time, we must and must not forget our older citizens, those who built the country for all of us. We want the pensioners to know they have someone to rely on. On the other hand, the former regime's representatives probably came from themselves, because they didn't believe that someone was going to work seriously and make reforms, and they were the ones that caused all of this in 2014 and we are where we are. President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are making great efforts to provide the best business environment to meet our targets under the 2025 plan. So, we're going to have an average salary of 900 euros in 2025, to make the average pension 440 euros. The people see our work and see the results and the people of the Republic of Serbia know that what Aleksandar Vukic promises and fulfills it. It is not surprising, therefore, that according to the latest surveys, the support of the SNS in the people is 59.8% of the vote. However, that fact does not need to relax us. That fact obliges us to work even more, even more hard, and, as the slogan of our parliamentary group itself says, for our children. We need to help President Vukic fight for the progress of the Republic of Serbia even more strongly. For the sake of all this, on behalf of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I call on all fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support this agreement in the day of voting. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8153	Thank you, Mr. Mircetic. The next is MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8154	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, in today's debate, we will discuss several international loan agreements that would raise the financial efficiency of the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, I would say that the PUPS-3P parliamentary group in the voting day will support these agreements and vote for their adoption. These agreements can be divided into two groups. The first group includes agreements concerning the conclusion of those loans to be used for the purpose of building and rebuilding infrastructure. I, a while ago, when we were reviewing the draft laws on agreements relating to the financing of projects of further gasification in certain parts of Serbia, said it was of great importance to start work on the direction of the Master's Nish-Pirot border with Bulgaria as soon as possible. It is one of today's agenda points that refers to this very significant infrastructure facility, great capacity and flow that will give our country another cross-border link to the European pipeline network, which will further secure this energy from potential shortages and market disturbances. The project will be worth around 85m euros, which will raise 25m euros through the loan, 50m from EU funds, and the rest of the costs would be from Serbia's Public Enterprise's budget and revenues. These are definitely important projects, but I'm taking the opportunity... planned to complete and release the entire system into full operational power by the end of 2023, giving new momentum to development, above all, the town of Nis as the centre of southeastern Serbia, which is becoming a gas hub, the Pirota that will get the possibility of joining the gas, and other places in this very important direction. An even bigger development project is the beginning of works on the construction of the Moravski Corridor, the highway from Pojat to Preljina, a length of about 110km, which will represent the lateral link between the Belgrade-Nish and Belgrade-South Adriatic highways, i.e. corridors 10 and 11, through the West Morava valley and significantly raise traffic safety on this road route, but it will certainly mean economically for all cities on this route, i.e. on this part of the highway. This loan will provide half of the funds, or 400m euros, to be paid over 13 years in semi-annual war with grace periods of three years. The fourth and seventh item of the agenda are two 51m-euro loans taken from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the French Development Agency. They are intended for several projects in the area of repairing the state of the railway network in Serbia, and above all to improve the railway crossings. It is of great importance, because we are witnessing that, from time to time, terrible accidents occur on these unsecured crossings or on those where signalling is broken or not working. I would point out that we had such a disaster in Nis a few years ago, and when due to failure or other reasons, irresponsibility, on the Nis-Leskovac track, near the village of Medirov, the train ran into a bus and there were 10 people who were killed, mostly workers and children who went to schools in Nis. In addition, these funds will also be used to complete certain railway infrastructures in Belgrade, such as the second phase of the Prokop train station and the rehabilitation of tunnels under the city. These are certainly important projects, but I am taking the opportunity to draw attention to the need to work on rail infrastructure in other cities, especially Nis has great needs, given that the Nish-Pirot highway is passing through only the central city core. This creates a number of problems in the functioning of the city, so this serious municipal problem should be addressed at the state level because the city itself has no authority or resources for such infrastructure projects. For 20 years, or 30 years, the city of Nis, as capital projects, has been proposing to the Republic just to move this railway Piroth-Nish from the city's core and hopefully, Mr. Minister, that in some period, given that the pre-emption of land and the rest has been done, the Republic will help the city of Nis finally remove this railway from the central city core and in some way ensure and the safety of traffic and safety of citizens, as a large number of railway crossings are in the city's very core. The 78m-euro debt to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Development projects of the Sava and Drina Corridors will be used to rebuild the dikes on Savi near Dobrinovec and on the new Belgrade side, which will be raised on critical shares so that they can defend against the record flow of water. The importance of such preventive investment was seen in 2014, and therefore it is better to invest in the construction and repair of the embankment, than to give ten times as much funds after the flood and waste time and resources to eliminate the effects of the flood. A small part of this loan will be used to revitalise the port infrastructure in Sremska Mitrovica. In the second, but no less important group of international agreements that we are ratifying today include both the third and fifth working points of the agenda. They concern loans also raised by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the French Development Agency, with them primarily being used for environmental protection projects and concrete implementation of the provisions of the law package that we have adopted in this Assembly over the past few months in this area. This primarily refers to reducing the carbon dioxide mission and other carbon gases that produce the greenhouse effect. In this sense, it is good to see that there is also a way to apply the strategy and plans for this area, namely that the legal provisions that we have recently voted have not been laid down for the sake of, in order to remain a dead letter on paper, but at their presentation it is indeed working, even at the cost of certain duties. As we know, in the previous period, we adopted a proposal to increase certain funds for the Ministry of Ecology, i.e. environmental protection, and I now believe that these funds will be used correctly to protect the environment, primarily in cities, or across Serbia, in adequate ways. Finally, the second item of the agenda concerns the agreement with the UK government and it concerns resolving technical issues related to trade in the wake of the country's EU degrees, so that nothing will change in the mutual economic relations that are very important to the Republic of Serbia. At the end of the presentation, I'd like to point out something because of viewers who are less directed when word gets out that we have made this number of international agreements. It could be done to make it a debt in the stability of state finances process, however, I would like to say that these agreements and the money that are withdrawn from them are already envisaged and calculated in the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021 and that this debt cannot cause any imbalance of state finances, so before we see that most of the funds are planned to build a real traffic infrastructure that will be multi-payed after construction. I believe the MPs will vote in turn for the adoption of these proposals. Since we consider it to be good legal proposals, the PUPS Parliamentary Group "Tri P" will give its support in the day of voting for their adoption. Also, the PUPS Parliamentary Group "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session of the extraordinary session and vote for. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8155	Thank you. We're going to sign up for the word, the first on the list is Mr. Milletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8156	I thank the chairman. Dear Finance Ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and here in the Assembly represented the United Peasant Party. As respected Minister Sinisa Mali has just said, regarding the proposals for these agreements, this is another stimulant for the development of our country of Serbia, and all thanks to the fact that we managed to stabilise the country, the budget and that the economy is starting to work the way it should be. A large number of people, a large number of companies that have come, who have opened their own facilities, their companies here in Serbia, that is something that is very important. Infrastructure is another one of the things without which there is no development of our country, so as an MP, I will vote in favour of the proposals of all these agreements that are on the agenda. On the other hand, here I am talking to my colleague, Marjan Risticevic, about a current harvest that goes through its course in Vojvodina. With us there in southeast Serbia has not yet gone, I expect it will be done in the best way, so that everything is right, because without our agriculture I am sure there will be no success in other parts of the economy either. I spoke several times about these infrastructure problems, specifically as regards railway lines that were just spoken of by my colleague Stosic about Nis-Dimitrovgrad, it is a railway that has not been done. That part of the job needs to be done. Otherwise, the railroad made by Nis via Svrljig, the Bookmaker according to Zaječar, was partly done. We expect that this railroad will be put into operation as soon as possible. Otherwise, the complete reconstruction of the railway was made from Nis to Književec, while from Književci to Zaječar and there towards Prahovo would be only one part, a small part of the reconstruction, and a complete reconstruction of the railway was planned, to fully place these concrete thresholds, and the track would be within the projected part of how it was done earlier, to be a fast track. I expect it will be done, because with this railroad and the investments that will be in Prahovo, with all the things where it will need the frequency of trains, all these compositions that will go over that railroad, from the Prahov, through Zaječar, according to Nis and other parts of Europe, I think it is very important to do it. This part of the railroad now done should be released at least for passenger trains, for business entities working with us in Književec, Svrlig and Nis, because we have several companies right in Svrlig, such as “DIV” Svrlig and this company is very current because it does concrete thresholds, but because of the track that is not operational, and it is all over and I don’t know when it will let go. When that railroad starts to work, even if our business entities can place their thresholds where they need to. I expected it to be in progress last year, so this year, but it hasn't been done yet. I think it's very important because that company employs over 300 workers. Otherwise, Srljig, as well as a number of municipalities in southeastern Serbia, are municipalities that are underdeveloped, needing incentives, which need new investments, where new investors or our investors need to be brought in, we need to ensure better conditions for some to be imposed at least on those municipalities that are underdeveloped. Otherwise, in Srljig, we had Prime Minister Mrs. Ana Brnabic, who we talked to and we presented certain things that needed to be done for the employment of new workers for those companies that are in a more difficult situation, to provide them with better conditions to attract and we expect that one part of our talks and agreements will be respected by and the competent ministry and government, because those of our municipalities that are in the southeastern Serbia, which are in a difficult situation, the fifth group of underdevelopment, are very important to support the government through investments, through investment and through direct donations for all those who remain there to live, who are working there, who are taking place there. Regarding that part of our Serbia, the southeast of Serbia and this part of the pipeline that will be done, it is a pipeline for which we have received funds, related to Nis-Dimitrovgrad interconnector, a natural gas that will be able to connect our country to Bulgaria, that this part will be operational and that a greater number of our households can use this opportunity to provide themselves with gas heating, all the things that are important to them to do there. I can also say that from Nis, through Svrlig, to Književci, that part of the job has not yet been done and we expect that it will have the opportunity to do the pipeline, as well as in other parts of Serbia. Serbia is and Srljig, Serbia is and Platiceva, Serbia is and Subotica. So I say, we have to invest more in municipalities, in areas like these small environments, such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Bolvac and other such places, just because people are left to work, the rest of them are living and we need to put more attention to them, and in this way when it comes to road infrastructure, here I will talk from this place about the problem of building part of the road, it is important for all of us who live there, from Nis, through Srljjig, Književci, Zaječa, it is a road that is very frequent, to the highway where there is one part of the road that is not done, and it is very important for all of us who live there, it is part of the road from the master road, from the village of Malce to Nis. We expected that part of the road to be done, reconstructed, because there are more businessmen working there, because that part of the road uses a large number of people going to Nis, from Zaječar, Negotina, Književci, they go to Nis to the Clinical Centre, or to the airport in Nis, and they don't want to use the highway. Once again, distinguished ministers, dear colleagues, I will vote as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party for all these bill proposals, because it is necessary and it only makes our Serbia's development.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8157	Thank you. Next up is a colleague, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8158	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Finance Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will look at agreements in my presentation concerning financial support for the fight against climate change. The first is between the French Agency for Development and the Republic of Serbia and concerns the implementation of a climate-resistant urban environment programme. The Republic of Serbia budget law for 2021 envisions borrowing from the French Agency for Reconstruction and Development of 50m euros for the efficiency of the public sector and green recovery, as well as borrowing from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development worth 82m600,000 euros. Since we adopted the Climate Change Act this year, which obliges us to reduce pollution, i.e. the level of greenhouse gases, as the international community and the EU are bound to do so, whose member we want to become, we must be ready for that moment. We also have a low carbon development strategy to be adopted, as well as a climate change adaptation programme. In order to implement all of this, we also need large financial resources. Given that energy stability in Serbia is mainly related to fossil fuels, i.e. coal, which generates the most harmful gases in addition to traffic, and that air quality, flood protection, water shortages, waste management issues most exposed to climate change, it is clear that we need resources to strengthen capacities and local self-government and ministries, to adapt their policies and strategies, to address these problems, or to develop urban environments resistant to climate change. The world faces the fact that nearly half of the world's population lives in cities. This figure is estimated to increase to two-thirds by 2050, which will further complicate the planning and construction of accompanying infrastructures, such as traffic, public transport, parking, waste disposal, water supply. In view of all of the above, the question arises, how do we ensure sustainable development in cities? Those dealing with these issues say that the answer lies in the design of smart cities, i.e. urban environments that use smart technologies, which are based on sustainability, both economically and environmentally. It is interesting, if you pay attention, that the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable Development Goals, aimed at 11, has raised the question of smart cities and is defined as sustainable cities and communities. Serbia is a signator of this agenda and we must meet these goals over time. It is clear that the conventional way of managing cities will not be able to meet the needs imposed by a large number of people located in relatively small areas and therefore it is necessary to plan and improve even basic services and infrastructure in cities. Someone compared the definition of a smart city to a human organism. I'm going to paraphrasise that comparison, that the smart city acts like a human body. We have buildings and buildings where daily activities like muscles and organs take place. The green surfaces help the cities breathe and they are the lungs of cities. The pathways that allow daily transport are like a blood stream in the body of a man. In the end, we have five senses that give information to our nervous system and direct us to environmental adjustment. These senses of smart cities are sensors that collect and connect different types of information needed to manage the city, send data to large bases, and based on these data from city administrations and businesses, urban functioning systems adapt to the needs of their citizens. Based on these data, mobile phone apps are made available to citizens, so that at any moment they can get to know the crowds of the city and the areas where there are free parking spaces and when public transport will arrive, what is the quality of the air, etc. A group of MPs within the Digital Security Parliamentary Network visited the Huaway company yesterday. They presented to us projects of their smart cities created with the help of information and communication technologies and without these smart cities there would be no normal functioning, no life in cities that have 10, 20, 25 million inhabitants, such as Shenzhen, Beijing, Shanghai and other cities. In order for all of this to work and be in the service of citizens and sustainable development, regardless of which city or continent, whether it is China, Serbia, America, Asia, policies and strategies are needed first, and then new advanced information and communication technologies and solutions, as well as professional personnel to implement these 21st century challenges. That is why I expect that these funds that we are withdrawing from the French Development Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will contribute to our country's green recovery and implementation of climate-resistant urban environment programmes as soon as possible. That is why the SDPS parliamentary group will support these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8159	Thank you. Next is counterpart Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8160	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Trade, if I am not mistaken, before us a set of agreements, usually citizens react sensitically when we talk about loans. If there's fear among Serbs, then it's fear of credit. Let me start with the draft law confirming the partnership agreement, you were talking about him in the opening statement. Important trade co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom, Great Britain and Northern Ireland. A comprehensive agreement on the co-operation of our two countries and we recognized it seems to me all to be an important act in, above all, bilateral relations between the United Kingdom and Serbia. Otherwise, these bilateral relations have a tradition, they were established nearly two centuries ago, more precisely in 1837, if I have the exact information, and we should say, and we can say that the two countries characterise relations primarily of good co-operation, especially in the area of security and defence. What exists also as a tradition is also traditionally good and not to say related, the relationship between two Serbian and English crowns. It seems to me, no less important in these times. 28 bilateral agreements have been concluded so far. Britain and Serbia signed the first interim bilateral agreement in 879. The trade relations between the United Kingdom and Serbia have until recently been regulated by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and you said so in your opening statement, following the "Bregzit" and the United Kingdom's exit from the EU, a new legal basis has been set up to regulate bilateral trade and co-operation. I seem to remember well that you said that since 2016 we have a surplus when it comes to the relationship, the trade relationship between Great Britain and Serbia, and what I will point out is that seven or eight days ago we had a meeting of the parliamentary group of friendships with the ambassador of the United Kingdom and a very good conversation about everything that could be perspective and in what is behind us, as well as the announcement of this law on the confirmation of the agreement, as a good move in the continuity that is happening, unequivocal support for the European path of Serbia by the United Kingdom as much as it sounds paradoxically from the distance they came out of the EU, but I suppose the reasons for their exit and our accessions differ well. So, this trade co-operation between the UK and Serbia is high and with the potential for further growth and development. It's important, I think, to motivate all their investors. We have become a market that is increasingly interesting to investors, and it is important, because of jobs and because of the reduction in the unemployment rate, to continue this positive trend. Certainly, your colleague Milutin Mrkonjic, first of all as a Government, praised you for what infrastructure projects are and even if I wanted to, I can't compete. What's important is that after this paralysis that happened to us as a result of Kovida-19, we're moving slowly, I think, in some small steps in normalising all these relationships, so I guess we're going to go back to normal and we're going to advance those trade flows, because these are both unequivocal conditions for growth above all this country and in the interest of this country. I want to believe that, first of all, because of this successful implementation of immunisation, we're going to have some a little better picture of autumn, however naive the threats are, but once again and again from here, an appeal for all our young people, since, as far as I can tell, a small percentage of young people who are vaccinated are, and it would be important to wait for the fall with a percentage of what the higher vaccineed young people are. So I urge them to respond and take advantage of the chance that Serbia is really only offering when it comes to immunisation against Kovida-19. Another proposal I would like to refer to is the Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty by the Gas Interconnector Nis-Dimitrovgrad-Bulgaria (border) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. And that's what you were talking about. It is important, the financial framework for realisation is provided, I think, by the most important energy project that complements the existing system of Serbia's gas economy as a transit country. It has been investing intensively in the gas economy since 2014. The results seem to be more visible and an essential goal, and above all that energy stability and energy security of Serbia. A huge investment in the energy sector was also a "Balkan Stream", which ended in more than 400km last December, thanks primarily to the responsible team "Serbiagas", and I would not be a friend if I did not praise both my "Srbigas" and my esteemed friend Bajatovic, our national gas company, which with Russian partners managed to overcome all the challenges of this project, and they were not small. Another good news is that on July 4th, the “Balkan Stream” pipeline at the Hungarian border is connected. The public company "Srbigas" and the Hungarian company connected at the border with the Hungarian pipeline "Balkanski Flow", which will in future gas from Turkey via Bulgaria and Serbia reach Central Europe. Another major success of Serbia in the energy sector and finally the big deal that our country has finally solved is the gas supply issue from another direction, not just through Ukraine. From all of this, it is also important to continue the gasification and gas connection, which is the subject of a loan granted by the World Investment Bank to Serbia. It is also important to point out that the act on the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget approved a bank debt of up to 25m euros to finance Serbia-Bulgaria's gas interconnection. Therefore, the construction of a Niš-Dimitrovgrad-Bulgaria gas interconnector on the territory of the Republic of Serbia is one of the priority projects to ensure that the pipeline system of the Republic of Serbia is connected with neighbouring countries and enables natural gas to be added to the market and from other supply routes. The planned capacity of the pipeline is 1.8 billion cubic metres, which will be able to meet about 80% of the current natural gas needs, and its share in the territory of the Republic of Serbia will be around 109km long. Realisation of the project will improve the security of supply of both the Republic of Serbia and the region and allow further development of the distribution network of central, eastern and southern Serbia and the integration of the existing and future natural gas storage facilities into a single energy system. The ultimate goal is to secure and secure the supply and use of natural gas both in the sphere of the economy and in households, since natural gas is energy-efficient with pronounced technical and ecological advantages above all compared to other conventional fuels and the use of natural gas allows users above all high comfort and better quality of life. Direct use of natural gas in households can satisfy 80-85% of energy needs. In addition to these benefits, natural gas is a energy that is available throughout the year and is of equal quality, regardless of the place of consumption. From the point of view of the economy, and you've talked about it a little bit, the application of natural gas creates greater possibilities for modernising and increasing the economy of many industrial processes and technology plants. More intensive use of this energy will contribute to sustainable development across all industries, especially in the field of energy, will mitigate the impact on climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Somehow we can't break away from the fact that the agenda itself contains all the agreements that are tightly tied to each other and somehow one another follows. He spoke to his colleague Mrkonjic about the Moravia Corridor and I won't be going back to it much, but I want to do my initial sentence, which is how we react to the borrowings. In that sense, Minister, I guess not consciously, usually your arguments are very broad, but even in the light of the law, it does not stand what I'm sure the public of Serbia would like to hear, and that's how cheap it is for us, and how much, I certainly know, that's what MPs in the hall know, but it's not bad to hear – why is it important to invest, someone would say, if I didn't say mean languages, this big money in infrastructure projects? We must say out loud that in one it seems to me to be even shorter time than the ten years Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic spoke of, to return. The truth is, it's a study that might have been presented here by the minister of traffic, because I guess they made that intersection, but I'm pretty sure you have one of those information, and it might be good to share it with the citizens. The SPS MPs will certainly support a set of proposed agreements in the voting day, first of all because we think that all the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are about actually improving the quality of life of our citizens, and then maintaining that economic stability, which we so often talk about, not to say economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8161	I would like to thank the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8162	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Ms. Kovac, Honorable Minister Mali, with associates, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, it is a great pleasure for me today to be able to discuss seven very important agreements and legislative proposals that will absolutely improve our business environment and raise our economy, improve our trade and trade, and certainly contribute to the creation of a better business environment that will benefit not only our economy, but also our citizens. Serbia is indeed a credible partner today and a reliable partner on the international scene, and I would say that we are a country that is believed and truly appreciated and cherished by true partnerships with both the countries of the East and the countries of the West. Serbia is today believed and I would say that it sits at a table with great powers, either at the level of the international community, either as an active partner within international organisations. We are discussing today and one of the leading agreements is certainly the Partnership, Trade and Co-operation Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Republic of Serbia, which will fill, I would say, that legal vacuum, as you said in your opening statement, which occurred by stopping the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so-called. The SAA, which ceased to apply on 31 December last year, 2020, and since 1 January 2021, was required to provide a new legal framework to regulate overall bilateral relations with the goal of maintaining the previously established level of co-operation in these areas. Why is this important and why is it even important that we ratify this agreement? It is good that we have had this transitional solution signed on 20 May of this year to resolve all the disagreements for the flow of goods from Serbia to the UK and to resolve all those disagreements and problems at the border crossings towards the European Union and to resolve the system of customs. If we hadn't adopted this agreement and we weren't going to ratify it in the National Assembly, and if we hadn't signed that transitional solution and the provisional validity of this agreement, we would have led to our taxing of products by 20%. This would do a lot of damage to our Serbian economy and we have a situation, I came up with media data that said, in order to reduce the export of frozen fruit from Serbia, by some estimates by 15% to 20%. It is therefore important that we discuss this agreement today, and I hope that fellow MPs and MPs, in voting day, will indeed support the ratification of this important international agreement. I do share the opinion of Mr Sinisha Mali, when he said in his opening statement that relations between the two countries of the United Kingdom of Great Britain from Northern Ireland and the Republic of Serbia are indeed traditionally good, that they are based on partnerships and good relations. Diplomatic relations were established back in 1837 and it is very important that we cultivate and build them in the future, despite the numerous challenges that the countries and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland are expecting in the years ahead of us. The UK has left the EU after Bregzit and has ceased to actually apply to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and for Serbia, it has been said that we have a parallel to the integration and construction of our economy and our economic relations and economic ties with everyone, not only with the full member states of the EU, but also with Russia, China, with Britain that has come out of the EU. This agreement has begun to apply temporarily in May of this year and the main benefit for the two countries as it will be in the future, that it will indeed lead to the promotion of investments and that it will work in favour of how our economies and our citizens do. When we talk about these investments, I can say about the role of British companies in Serbia and the level of their investments, currently more than 400 companies are operating in Serbia with majority British capital employing 22,000 workers and producing mainly parts for the automotive industry. The level of foreign direct investment in Serbia in the previous period was 90m euros. So it's about a very important partner. According to the data that I came to the Foreign Ministry site, we have 28 signed active international agreements with this country and it is good that we also talk today to this important agreement. The trade in goods with the United Kingdom and the Republic of Serbia is 500m euros, and I would say that the net investment of the United Kingdom in Serbia, between 2010 and 2020, totals 627m euros, making it 13th on the list of largest investors in Serbia. Some of the largest investors in the Republic of Serbia coming from the UK are certainly British American Tobacco, which has since 2013 privatised the tobacco industry in Vranje, then Endava in the IT sector from 2015, which has been present on our market "Agena Technological" in Šimanovci, a "Sedin Group" in Belgrade. You are the Ministers of Mali, of course, when we opened one of the largest rijal parks in Belgrade in 2017, it is about a rijl park whose investment is just coming from Britain, an investment fund from the United Kingdom, which is about an investment of 30m euros, where business during 2017 and years later has found more than 450 Belgrade citizens of Rakovica, as well as residents of surrounding municipalities. It is therefore important that we adopt such regulations and therefore it is important that we create this legislative framework and create this business environment that is important to us and how important it is to us. Serbia is now in second place, I would say this year, when it is affected by the pandemic of the Coronal Virus and I can proudly say that despite all these challenges that come from within and outside, we are fighting to attract, to continue to bring new direct foreign investments to what Serbia is truly known and what Serbia really is a leader in Southeast Europe itself. Traditionally good relations between the two allies during both world wars and the Great War and World War II are characterized by these contractual relations, the 28 agreements and Serbia will continue to co-operate with the UK in all those areas of interest for the citizens of both countries, and in the areas of economy, trade, investment, defence, but also culture, education and sport. It is really important, and I would like to particularly apostrophe and to point out, it is also important for the joint involvement of the Serbian and British armies in the framework of the UN Mission in Cyprus. Today, Serbia is really recording records and good news, and we can read and see every day in our and world media, and when it comes to fighting the pandemic, and when it comes to vaccination and when it comes to the opening and construction of new birds of hospitals and when it comes to favourable economic movements, economic growth, GDP growth, but also the growth of wages and pensions, which is very important for all of our citizens. Why is that? Well, in addition to the reform process, Serbia has really taken full steps towards modernisation, we have reformed the public sector, we have made it possible to digitise. I would say that exactly the digitisation and reform of the state administration and the public sector is now during the two years that were when Serbia and the whole world, when they were affected by the pandemic by the Viros Kovdi-19, was literally on the test. The citizens could then see the resilience of our country, the resilience of our economy, and the resilience of our health system. We had enough equipment, we helped neighbors from all over the region and on medical equipment and on vaccinations, vaccines. Indeed, it is in our interest and I would take this opportunity, support the appeals of my fellow MPs, join these appeals and call on all Serbian citizens to take advantage of the opportunity and to vaccinate at the checkpoints, in their cities, their villages, their municipalities. I come from the township of Rakovica, we are the fourth municipality in all of Serbia by the number of vaccinated inhabitants, more than 80% of the population has been vaccinated over 65 years. We've had a number of successful campaigns, youth vaccinations, our graduates, young businessmen, students. We'll continue with both this and the next period. We have opened two checkpoints where the citizens of Rakovica and all of Belgrade, without an appointment, can every working day, including Saturday and Sunday, be vaccinated, whether it is a checkpoint within a newly renovated health home, after 40 years, on Swan Hill, on Oplenjska Street, whether it is a restored and reconstructed health home in Resnik, on Edward Greg Street. So I'm calling on all citizens, all the people who are watching this broadcast today to exercise their rights and to vaccinate. We have enough of all vaccines and I'm glad they're finally going to start producing Russian vaccines in Serbia. Also, I was really happy to see that in April of this year the construction of the third Kovid hospital in Novi Sad, along with newly built Kovid hospitals in Batajnica, Belgrade and Krusevec, began. Why is all this important? It is important that we return to some normality, to restore our economy, that we can create such a business environment and such economic relations, that we can raise the price of minimum earnings from day to day. A fellow authorised SNS official for today's debate, fellow MP Vuk spoke about how important it is to increase our salaries and pensions, how important it is to increase that minimum profit price that will be more than 35,000 dinars, how important it is that by January of next year the salaries in Belgrade will be higher in all Serbia. The current salary in Belgrade is 705 euros, and we expect and predict that salary growth in Belgrade is more than 770 euros, which is really good news for citizens of Belgrade, good news for their families and good news for, I would say, a more certain future for all members of our families and all people living in our capital, in our capital as Belgrade is. Also, when we talk about this agreement, it is important to remind ourselves of this bilateral co-operation that our country enjoys with EU member states. A recent meeting on the Berlin process was held on which our Prime Minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic and Serbia today strongly supports the Berlin process, not only for the economic development of the region, but also for the integration of the Western Balkans and its approximation and close co-operation with the EU itself, with a very important supranational structure. Thanks to the support of Germany and Chancellor Angela Merkel and these internal initiatives, I would say, above all, to our President Alexander Vukic when we talk about the regional initiative Mini Schengen, but also to other representatives and Northern Macedonia, Albania, BiH, we can today proudly talk about these results that are in this process. We are today opening up a space for further expansion of the economy, for further expansion of trade co-operation, for the entire Western Balkans region, and for the entire Western Balkans region, we are all making it even more attractive and attractive for foreign investment, but also for the acceleration of economic growth. Serbia strongly supports the Berlin Process whose focus is on building a common regional market and I am really proud to point out that the EU alone is resting on four freedoms, on freedom of movement of goods, capital, people and services, and we will have benefits as a region of the Western Balkans, if we continue to develop all of those good initiatives, not only in the Berlin process, but also in the context of the Mini Schengen. We can already see the benefites of the Berlin process when we look at traffic and energy infrastructure, it has been significantly improved over the previous years, we are connected by highways and roads to the EU, the implementation of the Roming Agreement for the Western Balkans, which actually started with this month's application. Benefits from the Berlin process are really visible and we can see that our young people are working together today in the framework of the Regional Youth Office, we are really making a lot of efforts to strengthen and connect, but also building an atmosphere, tolerance and better understanding, both our younger and older citizens in the entire Western Balkans region. The transport community is also important, its Secretariat is located in Belgrade, but also those related to the Regional Co-operation Councils and the CEF Secretariat for the implementation of efforts to introduce an action plan for the common regional market. Today, when you look at the history of diplomatic relations, the history of European integration, the history of European relations, you can see good examples from the past that the countries before the EU joined, just before the entry of the regional integration, integrated and co-operated closely. A good example is certainly a multi-city group, where countries are originally founded at the summit of the Prime Minister of Czechoslovakia, then Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland. In the Hungarian town of Visegrad on February 15, 1991, which sought deeper integration and before the very accession to the full membership of these countries. These countries have connected and have done much to improve military co-operation, economic co-operation and energy co-operation, and we can really learn a lot from these experiences. I have had opportunities, as a member of the Committee on European Integration on several occasions, to exchange experiences with my fellow Members from both the European Parliament and the Parliament and the Committee on European Affairs of these countries. I am really pleased that Serbia is in no way lags behind as a accession country in the process of European integration, where it is, and if we have had a shorter stalemate on European integration we have finally opened a cluster of 1st that refers to fundamental rights and I hope that during the next Presidency of the EU Council, the Slovenian Presidency will open other clusters, above all I mean cluster 3 and 4. Serbia will also continue to be a credible partner on the international scene, and we will continue to develop good neighbourly relations with our neighbours, build good relations with everyone and help all countries to come together to speed up and improve co-operation across the region. These are the results that citizens recognize, these are the results that citizens value and these are the results for which citizens have cast their vote in all elections since 2012 until now. In politics they do not exist, I have graduated from the Faculty of Political Sciences and I have been taught by my professors in college that there are no friends and enemies in politics, but in politics only interests are eternal and it is very important that we find our place in the international scene, under the sun, because only then can we get our ship called Serbia to focus in the right direction. In life and politics and in business, in the economy, I'd say friends can sometimes let us down, and enemies can surprise us appropriately. The list of each other often changes, and depends on many reasons, and it is therefore important that on a chess board called the international scene, international policy, we make the right moves to make Serbian citizens choose a better future and better quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8163	I thank the People's MP, Dusici Stojkovic. The word has a folk MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8164	Thank you. I will talk about the draft law to confirm a 25m-euro financial contract between Serbia and the European Investment Bank, with regard to gas interconnector Nis Dimitrovgrad, or Serbia, Bulgaria. The start of construction of the pipeline was planned for the last quarter of this year, and the expected duration of work is expected, 21 months. There are many reasons why confirming this contract is important for Serbian citizens. The construction of this gas connector will allow gas to be added to sufficient quantities for the economy, as well as for citizens, as well as greater energy security, but also further development of a distribution gas network, in central, eastern and southern Serbia. The contribution of gas supply stability also testifys that the stake in our country's territory from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, will have a planned capacity of 1.8 billion cubic metres to Serbia and will be sufficient to meet around 80% of the current natural gas needs. The importance of this connector is not only local, or only for our country, in regional terms to testify that this project is on the list of one of the most priority projects that the EU has defined as key in the energy integration of Southeast Europe, with central Europe in line with EU policy, and this project is being implemented in line with the third liberalisation package. As a regional project supported by the EU, its construction will allow for closer regional co-operation and will enable more balanced economic development, especially between Serbia and Bulgaria and as such, it is essential for the further development and co-operation of our two countries, but the results of this co-operation will also be felt throughout the region, in other countries. Another reason why it is important to confirm this contract is that this is another step towards diversifying the routes that Serbia is supplying with gas and thus, building this pipeline, will significantly increase energy security both in Serbia and in the whole region. Diversification of supply routes will also contribute to greater stability, the gas supply of our economy and citizens, and allow Serbia to be less dependent on geopolitical changes, which can affect the supply of this energy quite safely. Such gas stability and diversified supply routes will also allow Serbia to think about diversifying gas providers, which would certainly raise stability and security of gas supply to another higher level. The third significant reason is ecological. It is necessary to note that the gas as energy is cleaner than the mule and cleaner than the coal. When we make significant decisions in the future in Serbia on energy transition to cleaner and renewable energy sources, a significant segment and transition, especially in the shorter to medium time period and in the area of cleaner energy sources, it will be the construction of gas power plants, as it is a cleaner alternative to fossil fuels, which are still used today in many power plants and heat plants, but also in industrial plants. By confirming this treaty, we will allow for a more stable supply of household and gas economy, thus enabling growth and development of the economy, and all this with the construction of closer economic ties both with Bulgaria and with the countries of the region and with the European Union. We will enable, as I said, diversification of supply, which will make that supply less dependent on geopolitical turmoil. I'm deliberately repeating it, and I'm undermining it one more time. In the end, we will lay the foundation for the transition of our economy and our energy system towards cleaner energy sources. Due to all the above, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support the proposed agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8165	Thank you. The time foreseen for the parliamentary group has been spent. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8166	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Ministers Mali, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, fellow MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I would like to refer to the proposal for a law confirming a loan agreement between the French Agency for Development and the Republic of Serbia for the implementation of the Climate-resistant Urban Environment Programme. On the agenda of the session is also the loan approved by the French Development Agency, which was spoken of by our friend Mrka, who refers to the railways and corridors, and I think in the opening presentation Minister Mali mentioned the part which, as I understand it, will take place in the realisation of the autumn, that is, perhaps in the spring of next year, which is Požerevac-Golubac, which is why we are down in Podunavlje and how interested we are. And how interested we are, and this is not only a question for us, but also for the neighbouring country of Romania, and for Bulgaria, so I would ask that if in the spring, it can remain from the beginning of the autumn to move towards the realization of the project. That would mean the whole end to us. Climate change and adaptation to these changes is an unconditional issue of survival for us as humanity and it is therefore important that every sector of society adapts and increases resilience to all risks associated with climate change. Unfortunately, a man himself has contributed greatly to major climate change, primarily air pollution and the effects of the greenhouse. My esteemed friend and friend, Pedja Markovic mentioned drastically in almost one interview and don't let it save us in this respect, which is – how Corona acted in India, that when they stopped production, for the first time many Indians saw the blueness of the sky. Let us try not to be saved by the crown, to defeat the crown, and that we have so much reason and so many ways and opportunities to save future generations and to give them a decent and above all healthy life. So today, if we want our planet to survive on it, we have to commit ourselves to protecting the environment and adapting to climate change. Serbia as a signator of Kyoto and the Paris Agreement is committed to the fight against climate change, as we have done through the legal framework by passing a law on climate change. The realisation of the objectives of this agenda is very expensive, but it is necessary and unconditional. In this respect, today's topic is also current, which is a loan approved by the French Development Agency to the Republic of Serbia, which refers to a climate-resistant urban environment programme, i.e. climate change. So it's about implementing the so-called. The Green Agenda. This is the implementation of green standards that will ensure the adaptation of urban environments and surrounding parts of cities to climate change. I come from a region where there are great natural and cultural treasures of Serbia, that is the area of Đerdapa, where nature protection is taken care of, and I would like to emphasise and commend many associations of citizens, especially climbers, who do so on their own initiative and on the welfare of both society and nature. There is the Đerdap National Park, which has been there since last year, which is significant for the whole country and Serbia's first geopark on the UNESCO list. That is why we support all measures of the state to preserve nature and combat climate change. Today we're already talking about climate resistance. Simply put, it is a programme that will increase urban environments' resilience to all forms of climate change they face. First of all, it's air pollution. For the programme, the Republic of Serbia is committed to the French agency for 50m euros. At the same time, the co-financer of the programme is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will provide 82,600,000 euros. The programme will be implemented by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and the basis of the approval of this loan is precisely the law on climate change, which provides for the adoption of a low carbon development strategy as one of the largest pollutants. The effects of climate change can be enormous and painful after the survival of the living world, including man. These are droughts, floods, slides, the disappearance of certain plant and animal species. At the end of the line, it's a lack of water for drink and clean air. Imagine a farm without water? Imagine a world without bees, what are the main planetary pollinators? How much we'd live if they weren't there. There's that point or the red line of survival. Adapting to the climate change of an urban center is to protect its water sources, to forestify as many areas as possible and urban centres as possible, as well as in the surrounding areas, as it will prevent glides and winds from hitting, but this noise must also be adapted to climate change. Of course, in the center of the city or on the dry surfaces will not be planted an oak pot, which requires tons of water for its growth, but will be forested by other kinds of trees, which do not require so much water. Adapting to climate change and irrigation system drops per drop or creating smaller artificial lakes, retention and swimming pools in urban continents, where natural waters will be collected when there are, rains, snows etc. and use them when they are and where they are needed. After all, this old way of keeping water in many parts has been known since ancient times. It just needs to become a model for everything. That's how we protect ourselves from the inevitable changes. By building mobile irrigation systems, not using drinking water as technical, which is terribly expensive, we are working on technical water security projects from the Danube and other rivers. I especially stress the Danube, because I think the municipalities that are on the Danube are that and how we can use it, with the subsidy and the help of the state that the state is doing. Perhaps these suggestions of mine now seem to be minor to many, but I'm sure if each of us puts one cube into the mosaic of our planetary future, that'll be enough. I stick to that ecological saying, and also to the political one, and I also know that many colleagues here who are present and who have spoken in these days since I am an MP, which is – think globally, act locally. First of all, we must stop further pollution of the planet and a rational attitude towards natural resources, especially water. We could call this concept nature protection through nature, because nature has this possibility of adapting. We need to follow her and help her with her actions to survive. In this respect, urban planning that balances development with the needs and opportunities of nature is also needed. Survival conditions are urban environments that will have the ability to adapt to climate change. To this end, it is certainly also the revitalisation of urban and rural water pipelines, in particular the replacement of asbestos pipes, which will take place and we expect intensively with the "Serbia 2025". The goal is the ability of the urban environment to quickly, but also strategic adaptation, which in general involves revitalising the degraded areas, adapting to climate change and reducing the damage to climate change. In addition to the highest level of government, the Green Agenda must be implemented by local communities that are the social cell of the state. Inclusion of local communities and local organisations is of great importance, as it provides a mobile and efficient mechanism and prevention and adaptation. Map quality water, words and streams in all municipalities that flow irrevocably, and are not used in the near future to connect to city waterways or to create protected springs. I would especially take the opportunity here, since Minister Mali today respects us, to ask him to find one of the opportunities of the Ministry of Finance, that we local self-governments that come from small local self-governments, which have no budget, which have less than a billion dinars, which behave, to say, rationally, correctly, all of their obligations are at peace in time, their final account is for example, that the ministry, like GIZ, has found ways to help and reward municipalities that have executed the list of properties as fast as possible, that these municipalities allow some dinar from the budget to come and that it can be invested in such examples, such as urban or rural waterworks. In terms of all of this, I support the ratification of a signed loan agreement that will improve the urban environments' resilience to climate change, as Serbia is now facing major challenges. The biggest pollutant remains the energy sector, as an emitter of greenhouse gases. The cause is, above all, the use of coal and individual bars. Here are the light remote heating systems and filter systems that we will solve by the fastest gasification, which already, we must admit, is happening rapidly and we see it in the work of "Srbigas" in particular. Climate change is getting more intense. It's made by man himself. That is why our response to them must be adaptation, as well as the reduction of harmful activities that have contributed to them. Of course, I don't think any of us here, or on the planet, want to live in a glass garden. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8167	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8168	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the agreements and arrangements that our country and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Finance made with the European Investment Bank, relating to the gas interconnector that connects Nis-Dimitrovgrad, so Serbia and Bulgaria, and which, in a long time, will ensure our country's energy security and energy security. What is very important to note, which is that this project and everything that is about it has a very large, huge geopolitical significance, given that it is a project that has waited several years to be realised, which, too, must be pointed out, is funded by the EU 45m, therefore, through grants. Here today we are talking about 25m euros which under favourable conditions can be withdrawn, so that we will withdraw from the European Investment Bank. What's this about? To explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, too, most importantly. No country can be fully and 100% sovereign if it depends 100% on supplying energy to one country or two companies. It is that Serbia, thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic, is finding partners in economic development and investment, so is the area of energy, which may be a key area when it comes to further and future economic growth in our country and investment. It is that for a very short period of time we will have the opportunity to supply American gas, which will come from Greece, or Thessaloniki, so that we will slowly relax our position from year to year and relax our country's dependence on imports and supply of Russian gas. This means that citizens of the Republic of Serbia will pay cheaper gas. This means that we will open up the potential for competition in this sector and what is most important, that the economy in this country will be able to pay gas at decent prices and therefore have the opportunity to attract as much foreign direct investment as possible in the next period. For you, Minister, I can only congratulate you on everything you've done in terms of finance, especially in the past year. All relevant world institutions, starting from the World Bank, the IMF, simply speak of Serbia having great economic results and this fact saying that it is a projection that Serbia will have more than 6% of GDP growth and it could not have happened without one great knowledge, without courage, but of course, the political will and determination of our country's leader, President Alexander Vukic, but also your skills and wisdom as finance minister that everything we have done and all that has been done during this crisis, resulting in maintaining jobs, maintaining the intensity of economic growth and development and what is most important for our country, that all those who have potentially been investors in our country and wanted to invest, that they have maintained their desire, that they have maintained their projects, and that we can expect them to invest in Serbia in the coming period, which, of course, will be of crucial importance for the new cycle of our new economy, to strengthen our economy. As for this section of the construction of the highway, or the Moravia Corridor in length of, I think, 104 kilometers, it is also one relevant, large American company Bechtel. She's here called "Bechtel London" as a British firm, as the daughter of a large American company who came here to build a highway, to build a infrastructure. This shows a clear definition and a clear orientation for Serbia to expand on infrastructure, as well as on energy, so we diversify our partners not to focus on only one state or company from one country, but to simply offer opportunities to work with both Chinese partners, European partners, to do so with both Americans and companies from the Russian Federation. It is something that Serbia guarantees not only economic stability, guarantees political stability, because it simply cannot be expected that Serbia could ever be in a position like before 2012, when it was an easy prey, when it was easy to blackmail Serbia, because it was very weak economically, that it had almost no economic growth, that it was absolutely going through the global economic crisis in 2009 with very, very bad results and with a very negative result of more than 300,000 jobs and most of it in the private sector. Now in our country, German companies employ more than 70,000 people, American companies 25,000 people. You cannot expect a country that has 25,000 employees in our country, which is building a strategically important highway, to expose our country to the pressures it had before 2012. And here is the result of a clear, serious policy, a clear and serious geopolitical reflection of President Aleksandr Vukic, who simply through this logic of opening a partnership with those with whom we were not in good relations during the 1990s, by creating strong friendships and solid alliances and strategic partnerships managed to make Serbia so attractive that they invested money, to invest energy, to invest resources in our country, and thus not only protected our country's economic interest, protected not only jobs in our country, protected Serbia and strengthened the geopolitical and international position of our country. I'm sure our country hasn't had this position in the past 30 or 40 years just thanks to this kind of leadership and courage not to fall into a trap that, as economists would say, we put all the eggs in the same basket, but to offer everything we can to everyone, under equal, relevant conditions. That is why Serbia is today a country where it is one of the best business climates not only in this part of Europe, but also in all of Europe, and we are the country that will certainly have the biggest GDP growth this year. What does this fact tell you is that it is guaranteed for this loan that Serbia will have and will receive from the J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, their office in London, which is guaranteed by the British credit-guarantee corporation? It speaks of the fact that the UK itself, therefore the United Kingdom, views Serbia as a safe country, as a reliable partner worth investing in and where investment in infrastructure and in any part of the economy is secure and secure in one long-term plan. I'll tell you only that fact that with Great Britain we almost had economic relations between 1990 and 2012. We now have a situation where the British Development Agency guarantees us a loan, that we receive funds under very favourable conditions and should be clear and should be openly said that these funds that we get from the European Investment Bank and these funds that we get and which are guaranteed by the British Development Corporation are the cheapest assets that a country in Europe has managed to get and very cheap of those funds that we get through some other countries with which Serbia is working. That is enough to say that President Vukic has managed to open the co-operation line with the UK now, because Serbia also needs this type of alliance, it needs a strategic partnership with the UK, since we have a lot of room for co-operation in the economy and a lot of room for British companies to come to Serbia, to invest in Serbia and, of course, to open new jobs through this co-operation. Also, I want to mention something that may not be as significant as these contracts themselves, as what will happen in two or three years, which is that we have a built highway, the Moravski Corridor, where the citizens of Vrnjaka Banja, Trstenik, Kruševac, will have additional opportunities. So, they'll have new investors, they'll have new companies, they'll have new factories. That part of Serbia will experience a serious economic boom, as Vukic managed to do in many parts of Serbia. Eastern Serbia woke up. Southern Serbia, Vranje, Vladic's Han, Leskovac, woke up. So these are now places where good and quality lives are now places where living is not hopeless, as it was until 2012, when young people had almost no option but to come to Belgrade or go abroad. Now we have opened, through Vucic's economic doctrine, that in every city, in every municipality we have at least one factory. We have opened what is most important to our citizens and to our young people, we have opened that they have opportunities for all. But in all of this and all of these major projects that are very important at national level, which are important for the region, I want to say that, ministers, you have managed to save more than 10m euros by raising our country's ratings in international financial frameworks even on this one transaction for paying the premium for this credit line, so for this loan, because our rating has increased in the last few weeks alone, we are no longer at number five but on four, so in just a few weeks we have managed to save for our country 10m euros. It is a policy implemented by the SNS, which is a policy implemented by President Aleksandar Vukic, which is a domestic policy that is aimed exclusively at the interests of the state and citizens. So, Serbia is a open country today, ready to co-operate with everyone, but ready to protect its vital economic, social and national interests and therefore, the great forces that are today leading the whole world and respecting the Republic of Serbia, respecting that the word Serbia is valued internationally, as what President Vukic says on the international plan is done. Believe me, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the results of this policy will only be seen in a year, two or three, when all that is done, when it is clearly seen through the opening of new jobs, but also through respect for Serbia on the geopolitical plan, especially as regards the preservation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country and the preservation of the vital national interests of the Serbian people wherever it lives in the territory of the Western Balkans. Serbia is no longer a handful of teeth like it was until 2012, which everyone could pass and the teeth, because it was weak, because it was ahead of an economic collapse and of course all of them then patted on the shoulder. As President Vukic said in an interview last night, it is normal and we should be pragmatic and be aware of the fact that many in the region, many in Europe are not glad that Serbia has raised its head, which Serbia has developed its economy, which Serbia today has one of the perhaps most dynamic economies in Europe. Look at Serbia seven years ago, look at the minimum profit of 15 thousand dinars. Today it's 300 euros. Today, the average salary in Belgrade is 702 euros. The average salary in Serbia will be 630 euros in a few months. So, in a few years' time, we will certainly, if we continue at this pace, overcome some Central European countries because we have continuity, which Vukic made one economic leader, one economic hub where today, without any geopolitical burden, from all over the world, they want to invest, they know that their investment is secure, but through this knowledge and skill, he has managed to attract into the energy sector and companies from the Russian Federation, into the company's infrastructure from China. As far as we can see, many American companies that pulled companies from Japan, South Korea, all American allies who are very happy to come here to Serbia and are very happy to invest in this country. So, as SNS MPs, we will always support such a policy, we will always support such agreements, which for the main purpose of improving the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, improving our economy, because Serbia is economically and militaryly stronger, and that is our people stronger and easier to protect. It is what is the strategy and doctrine of the foreign and internal policy of President Aleksandar Vukic and, of course, we have nothing left to do but to support him firmly, firmly and strongly in this intention to strengthen Serbia and place it in what the Serbian people and our country deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8169	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour and continue our work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8171	Dear President, honourable fellow Members, today we have had opportunities in the afternoon debate to hear which seven agreements today are on the agenda and that their value is 768.8m euros, which shows in fact that it is investing in a green recovery or so on. implementation of the Green Agenda, then investment in infrastructure. The majority of the projects are related to railways and the part related to the Moravski Corridor, as well as to Serbia's gasification and the third part is investment in public administration. I had opportunities in the afternoon debate, when we said that we were interested as members of the Committee for certain details of these contracts, in what part of the interest rate, what is the practical duration of these loans, what is the margin, what are the fees, because we consider it to be our task to know as members of the Finance Committee the basic items, or characteristics of each of these agreements. What we had the opportunity to hear is that, let's say, an agreement relating to the railway sector with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is combined with the World Bank and the French Bank, 51m euros, which is practically co-financing, is a deadline of 12 years. As a very favourable, of three years, there is actually a grace period, with interest rates being a part that represents a fixed part and one that represents a six-month euribor that is variable. We are now aware that on the world market these interest rates are really low and in fact this moment in which Serbia invests a large part of the infrastructure is the most favourable moment in which, with small interest rates, you invest in something that will bring you the next 20 years of huge revenues for the budget, which shows essentially that these high growth rates are the only way we can achieve it. Other countries that did not have the opportunity to simply have that financial stability that can withdraw these loans precisely because they did not implement fiscal consolidation in time, what Serbia has implemented, have shown in fact at the time of the crown where they are and what they are. Those who have done their job well when it comes to public finances in recent years have had at least the rates of decline, i.e. growth, and at least the rates of decline, and those countries previously in debt, they have had high rates of decline and today, means a year after Kovid, they just slowly return, rehabilitate, with their results, macroeconomic indicators actually not allowing them to enter such large investment halls as Serbia. The project relating to interoperability and integrated development of Sava and Drine corridors is a project and agreement worth 78.2m euros and has four components. These components are, in addition to flood protection and environmental protection, and part relating to the management of projects themselves, then the part relating to regional co-operation. Also, withdrawal, the deadline for this agreement is July 30th 2026, which shows that all these agreements are part of the budget, i.e. the rebalancing that has been done and we show in fact that this project "Serbia 2025" has already begun, especially when we are talking about these infrastructure projects. The efficiency of the public sector and the green recovery is, in fact, an agreement based on the withdrawal of financial resources in the period of 15 years with a grace period of 86.2m euros and based on two pillars, which are the efficiency of the public sector and green recovery. When we talk about the efficiency of the public sector, it is very important to say that there are some five actions that have been defined, in addition to modernising the public procurement and state aid control process itself, we also have the introduction of new registers especially when it comes to certain social categories. So this very process of digitising the public administration, it's now moving completely in depth somewhere. So, all target groups should be covered by this digitisation process and obviously from projects like this and these credit lines, Serbia is carrying it out. When it comes to green recovery, we have a part here that refers to sustainable growth and development in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda, and then we think about greater resilience to climate change. This means that when certain problems arise as a result of climate change, every public administration must be prepared and organised, but also financially, to bear certain costs resulting from certain negative effects in climate change. What does that mean? We are now investing and preventing in this, perhaps potential problems, in fact reducing the possibility of Serbia's actual budget experiencing certain damages as a result. I think it is of great importance that we show practicality to Europe, but also to the world, that we do not have a problem with a package of European directives called the so-called so-called "European Directive". "Green Agenda", that it is something we do, that it is an integral part of the budget, an integral part of the investment for the future, and that we have to be extremely responsible for it. When we talk again about the railway sector, another one of these agreements, or loans, implies with the French bank 50% participation in Serbia, and 50% participation in practical, French banks, and the loan is at 10 years, with six years of grace period. So the modernisation of the 51m-euro railway itself, the borrowing, is the possibility of pulling credit lines and modernising until 30 April 2027. The urban environment and climate change resistance programme is also part of the promotion of the principles of environmental protection and the Climate Change Act, which we will discuss, perhaps next week, or some of the following days, especially as we have amendments and additions to the Climate Change Act, which shows that we are harmonising in walking precisely, in collaboration with all relevant entities when it comes to both the region and the EU, on this topic. There's a loan, of course, 12 years old, with three years of grace periods, which shows essentially that everything we're talking about right now means that exactly the environmental management projects are very important, especially when it comes to wastewater management, where Serbia really comes shoulder to shoulder with developed economies. What is for us, we are in the afternoon debate is given one major accent, this is exactly the agreement concerning the confirmation of a financial contract for the gas interconnector, which is the direction of Nis-Dimitrovgrad-Bulgaria border, which is financed by the EU, the European Investment Bank. What we should say is that we have otherwise listened to the previous six, seven years by the Energy Community, and in fact, negotiations with the government that were, how the EU would invest, or help a financial project like this, given that it was interested in the so-called. Diversification means access to other gas suppliers. This is what was actually to be financed, of course, Serbia was not able to finance, and given that it itself has implemented a project to implement this route. What you had a chance to see yesterday is that the connected pipes are at the border of Serbia and Hungary, when it comes to this pipeline. It means that conditions are created that this project is beginning to live. What you can see in the Energy Agency's 2020 report is that besides "Serbiagas", "Yugorozgas", the activity of the distribution means another 28 companies. It's mostly local self-government companies, and cities, which have to have a license to do this kind of work. At the end of 2020, there were 65 energy entities that had this type of supply license, only 24 of which were active. According to the law, the government of the Republic of Serbia has set up a public company, "Serbias", to be a gas supplier and natural gas reserves for 2020. For the time being, there are 280 thousand connections supplied by 31 suppliers, which means that by opening this pipeline, and those projects that started a few weeks ago based on the agreement that we won, which is the gasification of those three important districts, that is Kolubarski, Borski and Leskovac-Vranje direction, in fact, Serbia is becoming a gas networked country, and therefore more energy-stabilising, on the one hand. On the other hand, the increased level of application of the fourth package of the EU directive, called the so-called so-called "the fourth package". The green energy package, which shows essentially that we really raise the scale when it comes to high environmental standards. Achieving these high ecological standards also represents a high economic standard for us, because by doing so, we have higher revenues in the budget, we discharge, of course, the electricity system by doing so, but most importantly, we strengthen the economy and thus create an ambience for the inflow of new foreign direct investment. Finally, what we started here, when it comes to infrastructure projects, and one of the most significant is the Moravski Corridor, is, in fact, a credit arrangement contract, which refers to a loan of 431,685,732,70 euros. When we talk about "Bechtel", "NK Limited", it's actually a company that has its registered d.o.o. here. A representativeship, and she's obliged to perform 110km's of work in three shares. The UK government agency guarantee is 100%, which shows, indeed, that there are very good bilateral relations when we talk about the West, when we talk about England and when we talk about a country that has now left the EU. But anyway, thanks to the really responsible foreign and internal policy led by Mr. Vukic, we have the support of this agency that this project is carried out with 100% guarantee, which I think shows in fact one hand support for such a significant project, and for us, what it means for the citizens of Serbia, this is to connect Corridor 10 and 11 and the practical networking of Serbia in this infrastructure, completely, that simply all regions are together, on the same level as the road infrastructure, as we saw before that, and the railway infrastructure, which means that for foreign direct investment, anyone interested in opening factories, will be able to because they will have access to that road infrastructure and will reduce transport costs. The price of electricity for all investors here in Serbia is also very tempting and the subsidies that the state is supporting to create new jobs is also very interesting. What's shown is that we have young, smart people, that means when we talk about hiring and dealing with new technologies, when it comes to young people, they're very interesting to investors from around the world today. In fact, this is what the future began today and what Mr. Vucic was saying when he began to visit Serbia several years ago and in every small town trying to find the potentials that would really develop every city, town and municipality that was about closing jobs, completely poored by 2012, and couldn't think about young people staying in those places, today the picture is completely different. This is what we say not only, but also say other international institutions and not only about finance, but also about political negotiations and developed EU countries which today, as you can see, do not at all think of opening factories in Serbia and will rather decide for us, who are not members of the EU, but for some countries that are already in the system when it comes to the EU budget itself. In the voting day, of course, we will support such a proposal of these agreements, because we believe that this allows Serbia to reach even higher rates of growth than 6% is planned for this budget, and we think that as a consequence, it will improve all citizens of Serbia, not only through increased wages and pensions, but through development and growth and those areas not directly related to production activities, such as education, culture and health, which today is the number of one topics, just when it comes to Kovid 19. In voting day, of course, I'll also vote for these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8172	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have received the resignation of MP Maja Grbic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office, before the time to which it was elected, has ceased, to the MP Maja Grbic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Now the word has Tomislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8173	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. We have witnessed that Serbia is rapidly developing, that the standard of living for citizens of the Republic of Serbia is increasing and that there is an increasing inflow of both domestic and foreign investments, leading to a decrease in the unemployment rate in our country below 10%. The reason is, above all, successful reforms have been implemented in our country, but above all, the reputation our President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have in the world. Only a politically and economically stable country can have a prerequisite for economic development. All Serbian citizens who followed Mr. Vukic's interview on one of the national frequencies last night were able to learn really good news about our economy, but also about the fact that in the first six months of this year, more than one billion and seven hundred million euros of foreign investment came into our country, making it clear that Serbia is an acceptable place for foreign investment, and some projections by the end of 2021 that the amount of foreign investment will be more than 3.5 billion euros, which really speaks of an impressive data that gives great expectations that both salaries and pensions in our country will be increased and that our standard of living will increase. As for Serbia's own industrial production, it was 6.1% higher in March 2021 compared to March 2020 and the average for 2020 was even 9% higher. When we compare the January-March 2021 period with the same period last year, we have a 3.8% increase, which clearly says that we also achieved good results during the pandemic period. All of these additionally obliges us to pass laws relating to the development of transport infrastructure, but also other infrastructures, in order to raise the competitiveness of the domestic economy in some ways, increase economic activity and improve the living standards of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to talk today about three draft laws. They primarily refer to the modernisation of our railway, then to the development of the Sava River and Drina corridors and to the construction of the gas interconnector. Speaking of Serbian railways, I feel free to say it is one of the symbols of Serbian statehood. At the Berlin Congress in 1878, Serbia was recognised independence and received four more new districts, namely the Niski District, Pirotic, Vranjski and Toplički. At this congress, Austria helped our country gain new territory, but conditioned special conventions and imposed one obligation -- to build a railway from Belgrade to Vranj, and then to continue the railway to Turkey and Bulgaria. Knez Milan Obrenovic hit the foundations of Serbian state railways with silver fools on July 3rd 1881. And just three days ago, the Serbian railways recorded a great jubilee, which is 140 years in our country and our people's office. As the country grew and was economically stronger, so did the railways, and it followed the development of our country and made a great contribution, but it shared the fate of our people and our country in this 140-year period. During the 1990s, due to wars, sanctions, NATO bombings, this type of traffic has become less and less relevant. In 2000, representatives of DOS came to power, which destroyed the economy and all business activities and then developed new problems. In the period between 2003 and 2012, more than 400,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia lost their jobs, thus affecting our country's economic development, the decline of economic activity. We have first and foremost a negative impact on our rail traffic, where they appear in delays in the transport of goods and services. This type of traffic has become increasingly significant compared to other types of traffic, and therefore it has been very important to invest in new transport infrastructure, in new kilometers of railways, locomotives, wagons, railway stations and others. In 2012, when the SNS comes to power, the state invests significant funds. In co-operation with the European Union, with the Russian Federation, with the Chinese Investment Fund, the Kuwait Development Fund is significantly improving the work of Serbian railways, and only in December of this year will the fully modernised railway line Belgrade – Novi Sad, and then continue the track to the Hungarian border itself. On 26 April, President Aleksandar Vukic agreed in Brussels the European Community's support for the modernisation of the railway between Belgrade and Nis, as well as from Nis to the border with Northern Macedonia. So, in a very short period of time, we will fully modernise our railway from the north of Subotica, then via Belgrade, Nis and to the border with Northern Macedonia, and then we will make a major contribution to the transport of goods, people and services, primarily for their safety, but also on a shorter path. As far as this project is concerned, the modernisation of our railway is a project financed by the World Bank and the French Development Agency. The total is 102m euros. In the budget law for 2021, we provided for those funds. We owe 51m euros from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 51m euros from the French Development Agency. This project has three components. The first component is investment in infrastructure and asset management in a way that primarily increases the safety of all traffic participants, to speed up procedures. The second component refers to strengthening institutions and managing projects and there are three sub-components, which is sectoral governance, human capital and project management and citizens involvement. The third component primarily refers to the establishment of an environment for further modernisation of our railway. We believe that through these funds, through these projects we will further influence to improve the safety of all participants in this kind of traffic and to increase economic activity in our country. Another very important project I want to talk about today is a project of integrated development of the Sava and Drina corridors. It is an agreement signed by the state of Serbia with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in May of this year. The total value of this project is 78,200,000 euros. The main importance is the economic integration of Western Balkan countries primarily through strengthening institutions and strengthening procedures in countries linking the Sava and Drin rivers. The project aims to reduce trade costs and increase transport efficiency in the Western Balkans. Also, one of the very important objectives of this project is to reduce the risk of floods and droughts. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that climate change has been accelerated and that very often our region is affected by floods and droughts, thus jeopardising that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the citizens of the surrounding countries, are increasing the vulnerability of this area. The project has four components related to the Republic of Serbia. The first component is, I would say, the most significant, given that 65m euros stand out for it and it primarily refers to the integrated development of the Sava River Corridor and is very important for the city from which I come, which is Sremska Mitrovica and the inhabited town of Mačvanska Mitrovica, which is on the right bank of the Sava River. This component deals primarily with flood protection and environmental management. Forty-eightm euros are set aside for the reconstruction of a higher embankment on the right bank and on the left bank of the Sava River. In particular, there is a reconstruction in Mačvanska Mitrovica of the 3,2km-long key, and about a year and a half ago in Sremska Mitrovica, on the left bank, thanks primarily to Minister Nedimovic, who is also the Deputy Prime Minister and the World Bank, we managed to secure a reconstruction of the key length of a mile and 50 meters, where mobile panels were installed. In this way, the left bank of the Sava River and the town of Sremska Mitrovica with more than 40,000 inhabitants is fully protected, as well as the rich cultural heritage located in our city. Through the protection of the right bank of the Sava River near the inhabited town of Mačvanska Mitrovica, this project will have a significant impact on the protection and special nature reserve of the “Zasavica” bar, as well as the surrounding places that are close to Mačvanska Mitrovica. Another significant project, which I would like to point out to this occasion, is first of all, the funds invested in port infrastructure, in Sremska Mitrovica, and that is the largest amount of funds for all ports, in our country's area, 17m euros are invested in the port of Sremska Mitrovica, which is over two billion dinars and new terminals for oil derivatives, for hazardous materials, for the scattered goods, i.e. Cereals. Since only the area of Srema and the Sword is rich in agriculture, that we have a highly developed industry, this will greatly affect further economic development, both Srema and the Sword, as well as the surrounding regions in the immediate vicinity. I will remind you that in 2012, in the area of Serbia, we had more than 40,000 containers transported, stored in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and at the end of 2019, more than 100,000 containers were stored and transported in space, which is enough to say that economic activity is developing, that the standard of living and purchasing power of our citizens and through the development of port traffic will greatly improve the standard of living for our citizens. The second component applies, first of all, to the Drina River. This is integrated management of the river Drina corridor, which implies activities aimed at protecting against floods and environmental management. More reconstructions are being done along the right bank of the Sava River and the right bank of the Drina River, so it is very important to protect that part of the Sword, so that there is no spilling of rivers and would not be threatened, both by citizens and by economy. The third and fourth components are components dealing with the preparation and management of projects. Eight and a half million euros for project management and millions and 600,000 euros are related to different types of regional studies, such as the Sava River Basin Management Plan and hydrological evaluations, the climate change adaptation strategy for the Sava River Basin, the planning and development of tourism in the Sava River and Drina corridors and master plan for nautical tourism and ecotourism. This clearly says that besides the funds aimed at the protection of the environment, to the rescue itself from floods, through these projects is thought of the development of tourism, since both the Drina River and the Sava River are very interesting areas, i.e. rivers to be invested in and nautical tourism is something that can greatly contribute to the development of tourism in the area, both our countries and neighbouring countries. Also, I'd like to introduce you to two projects we've implemented in the town of Sremska Mitrovica, and they directly refer to the protection of citizens from natural disasters. These are projects funded by EU funding, in 2017, we implemented a project called "Responsible Response", where the partners were the town of Sremska Mitrovica, the municipality of Šid, Brcko Distric and the municipality of Brod, on the part of BiH. The project was worth around 630,000 euros, where we focused the funds, primarily on strengthening the capacity of local self-government, but also on buying different equipment that is in place, in case of emergency situations. In April, this year, a very important project, too, is "Increasing the Capacity of Institutions Protection and Rescue", in BiH and the Republic of Serbia. So, a project financed by the IPA two EU programmes, where partners are the water companies "Sava", from Sremska Mitrovica, the Sremska Mitrovica diving club, and on the part of BiH, it is the town of Tuzla and their Red Cross. The project is worth just over 517 000 euros and will also focus on strengthening capacity in the event of emergency situations. This clearly says that the city of Sremska Mitrovica, but also this whole space, really one space, that is, cities and local self-government, where really interested countries and cities are, from a direct environment, to compete together with the IPA project, to repay funds with these projects, which are already in different funds, we can act preventively and improve how our capacities in the space of our local self-government, but also to strengthen human capacities and purchase equipment that will be important for the operation in emergency situations. Why is it important to always answer and be part of, to say, these European stories? Why is it important to compete on European projects? Well, one, we get EU funding, a large number of local self-governments are not in a position today, except for the city of Belgrade, perhaps the town of Novi Sad, with all due respect to all other local self-government, are unable to allocate their resources, so that they can solve some major problems, so we use EU funds. The second reason is that there is a transfer of experience and knowledge in the cross-border region, so we are working with countries and local self-government outside our country's space. The third reason is that through cross-border co-operation we make a small symbolic contribution to our country on the way to European integration because our administration prepares and implements certain standards set by the EU. The fourth reason, in my opinion, which is not a material nature, but is very significant, especially with co-operation with the Republic of Croatia and BiH, is that through co-operation through IPA projects in a certain way all the negative consequences and all the events of the 1990s, since we live in an area that has been affected by wars, conflicts. This is how local self-governments, citizens, say, these tensions fall and this is how we show that we have to cooperate and we want to work together with local self-governments and peoples from neighbouring countries, because emergency situations don't know either nation or religion, they don't even know the borders, and together when we get together we can certainly respond in an adequate way and protect ourselves. First of all, to protect people, material goods, our industry and everything that exists in the space of our local communities. The next law I want to talk about is a law relating to, or financial contract relating to, the Nis-Dimitrovgrad-Bulgarian Border Gas Interconnector and is signed between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank in May this year. The total amount of loans Serbia is taking is 25m euros. One of the priority projects that secures the connection of our pipeline system to the direct environment and is very important because through this pipeline with a capacity of 1.8 billion metres of cubic gas, we meet 80% of the total needs in our country. Since only in our country we have a capacity of about 20% of total natural gas, which is not highly calorie, this way we increase the level of security of our country's supply, but thus the entire region. We also provide a good basis for developing a distribution network in the area of central and eastern and southern Serbia. When this project is realised, it will give more positive results. The first result is primarily greater use of natural gas in the broadband sector, construction of new transport systems and storage of natural gas. Then, more efficient and environmentally acceptable use of energy itself and the reduction of all those substances that pollute our environment. The ultimate goal is to secure both household users and businesses. I believe that this project will further affect the increased degree of modernisation of our economy and the economics of our economy and will give us a positive effect on the overall standard of living in our country, but also on the increase of the environment itself. As Minister Mali noted today, all the projects we are talking about today are worth just over 768m euros. So big funds are being invested in our country's space, and that is proof that SNS, our President, Alexander Vukic, is really taking care of the standard of living of our citizens, that we invest in infrastructure. Only through investment through infrastructure, in traffic infrastructure, through investment in health care, do we primarily raise the security of our citizens, raise our standard of living, which is one good basis for raising wages and pensions and for Serbian citizens to feel the benefits of everything we do today in the coming period. Today it is indeed a great pleasure to be part of the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, because we are bringing quality, good bill proposals and, in this way, as MPs, we are contributing to Serbia further modernization and to Serbia's further development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8174	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Vladica Maricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8175	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic. We have eight international agreements and agreements on the agenda today, and when I think about what links all these international agreements and agreements we are discussing today, I have come to the conclusion that it is President Alexander Vukic's policy, which connects them with the development of the Republic of Serbia, the increase of GDP and the increase of our citizens' standards. As we could hear from President Aleksandar Vukic's mouth last night, Serbia achieved a 15% record growth in the second quarter of 2021. Also, in the first six months of 2021, we were able to attract more than a billion and 700 million foreign direct investment. These are impressive facts, these are facts that were simply impossible for the former Serbia, which are for Serbia today a reality, but also facts that may be insufficient for future Serbia, or for the future development of Serbia, because Serbia must develop further, Serbia must build an additional infrastructure that will attract even more foreign investment and raise the standard of living for our citizens. The goals President Aleksandar Vukic set in Serbia's 20-25 programme are clear. It is the average earnings of 900 euros in the Republic of Serbia. The first agreement I want to talk about today is an agreement that will allow the construction of a gas interconnector on the Nis-Dimitrovgrad-Bulgaria border route and that will connect Serbia-Bulgaria's gas pipeline systems. This project is worth about 85.5m euros. The credit we approve today is 25m euros, while the European Union's grant as a guarantee for this project will amount to about 49.5m euros. So Serbia remains to finance around 11m euros from the budget. The total length of the gas interconnector route through Serbia, meaning from Nis to Bulgaria's border, will be about 109km and the gas interconnector will be two-way and freeway. From Bulgaria's direction towards Serbia, its capacity will be 1.8 billion metres of cubic gas annually, around 80% of Serbia's current energy needs. In the opposite direction from Serbia's direction towards Bulgaria, its capacity will be significantly lower, about 0.15 billion cubic metres of gas annually. From these facts, it is clear that this gas interconnector, above all, will serve to meet the gas needs of the Republic of Serbia. Also, Serbia is becoming a transit country thanks to it and is able to charge transit fees for all those countries that are further on the pipeline route. By 31 December 2020, only one route of gas could enter Serbia from Hungary. It's the Russian gas that crossed Ukraine. On January 1st 2021, President Aleksandar Vukic opened the Balkan Stream gas pipeline, which is part of Turkey's larger pipeline and now Serbia has two routes of gas supply. The Balkan Stream, or Turkish Stream, excludes Ukraine on the track, so it contributes significantly to increasing the energy security of the Republic of Serbia, as it no longer depends on the political situation in the post-Soviet area. When a gas interconnector between Serbia and Bulgaria is built and starts working, Serbia will also receive a third gas supply route, and will also get the possibility of providing gas from other sources, which will significantly increase our country's energy security. Some, 30, 40 years ago, energy was referred to as goods and were talked about the energy market. Today, no one sees energy as goods anymore, but exclusively talks about the country's energy security, or whether the country will have enough energy to ensure stable growth in the future. Serbia is working intensively to shut down its entire territory. We gave guarantees here in law form about three weeks ago for the construction of the gas pipelines that the gas should bring to four districts in the Republic of Serbia. It's the Kolubar County, it's the Zaječar County, the Borski District and the Pcinj County. The gas is high. First of all, gas as energy is applicable in the economy and where the pipeline comes in, where we have a gas connection we can count on new direct foreign investments, those investors whose production requires a large amount of energy, and it also needs cheap and relatively green energy. It is also used in municipal systems for the launch of city heat. For example, the city heat in Nis 96% of the heat produced, produced from natural gas, and only about 4% of the lube or lot of oil. The use of gas is also important for households. What I detected in the conversation with citizens, as a problem and as an obstacle to greater application of gas in households, is, above all, still a high price of gas connection and the state could consider, in the coming period, subsidising the price of gas connection, in order to make it more accessible to a larger number of households. Another problem, which I detected, is that only a legalized object can be connected to the gas network, so that local self-governments also play their part through the legal process, where more objects will be able to connect to the gas. As far as other agreements are concerned, they allow Serbia to further build and develop its road railway, but also river infrastructure. In this year, Serbia started building, or eight highways will start by the end of the year. One of them is the subject of our debate today. It's the Moravia Corridor. The highway to connect Corridor 10 with Corridor 11, or southeast with the country's southwest. Serbia is also investing in the development of its railway infrastructure. We are all pleased that the People's Republic of China is our steel friend behind projects to build a fast track, on the road from Belgrade to Budapest, but the construction of a fast track will not stop there, because the new track for a fast track, from Belgrade to Nis, and from Nis further to the Macedonian border, and for that railway infrastructure President Aleksandar Vukic, has provided EU support. What seems impossible in the geopoliticals of the Eurasian continent to gather around one project and the People's Republic of China and the EU, President Aleksandar Vukic has achieved. About the construction of the railway infrastructure in Serbia, he brought together the two incomparable world factors, all in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Also, an important project in the area of construction of railway infrastructure, important for my fellow citizens in Nis, is the reconstruction and modernisation of the Nis Dimitrovgrad railway, especially one of its components, which implies the construction of a pervasive one-wheel rail for passenger and freight traffic, around Nis. The popular movement of the railroad from the heart of Nis. We know that the railroad that divides the township of Palilu, from which I come from the rest of the city, is a big problem for Nisli, both in traffic and for further development of the city. When this project is completed, the railway will no longer divide Nis into two parts, but on the track will be able to build Bulevar, known as the southern boulevard, which will round the traffic ring around Nis and reduce traffic jams currently in the city centre and allow for further development of Nis, as the urban centre of Southeast Serbia. I, as well as my fellow MPs, will support all eight agreements and agreements for our children in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8176	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8177	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we have a Partnership Agreement on the agenda, but also a Loan Treaty, a Loan Agreement, and all for the sake of the improvement of the Republic of Serbia. As foreign policy was conducted in the Republic of Serbia, sometimes only imagination could be imagined. Unfortunately, no one cared whether to cooperate with the People’s Republic of China. They ended Russia, they ended many very rich countries. And why is that? Well, because they had a dictatorship from abroad with who and how to work that yellow alternative that was from 2000 to 2012. Any, it's not repeated. Foreign policy is done in the way the government of the Republic of Serbia, the foreign ministry and Mr. Vukic, the president of the Republic of Serbia, does so very successfully. All these agreements and loans only talk about how many people, inopartees, are interested in investing in the Republic of Serbia, about how much the Republic of Serbia has adventured, how powerful it is in relation to the 1990s and 2000s, respectively. Let's just remember what it looked like during the period of management of the yellow company from 2000 to 2012 - either, it didn't happen again. Here, I'll go about the railroad, which was completely devastated. What my esteemed colleague said in previous exhibitions, when you sat on a train, the average speed in the Republic of Serbia was 30 kilometers. Well, as my esteemed colleague, Mr. Risticevic, said, as if you were sitting in a diliance, so when you left, who knows when you would arrive. My colleague, Mrs Jevtović Vukojičić, was due from Pribo to Belgrade for seven to eight hours – either, it did not happen again. Now, since the renovated railway Belgrade – Valjevo with an average speed of over 100km, it arrives in Valjevo in 45 minutes, and now travels to Priboj for five hours. Of course, that's a lot, and that's why we took these loans, twice 51m euros, one credit is from the French Development Agency, and the other is from the International Bank for Development, so that we can rebuild the devasted railways, rebuild the bridges, to revitalise, to make this a modern country. We're going very quickly to every reconstruction. It's a country that can be proud of building highways today. We built over 350 kilometers of highways, we finished Corridor 10, we build Corridor 11, we build the highway "Karajordje", we build the Moravski corridor, we build the fast road Shabac – Loznica, we build the Fruskogorski corridor, we start the construction. So eight more highways will be built, and each railway in Serbia is renovated. Of course, it won't be possible all at once, but the railway will be renovated from Belgrade to the border with Montenegro, so my colleague will be able to make it in three hours, like anywhere in the world, and when we build the fast tracks, as we will build from Belgrade over Nis to the border with Northern Macedonia, and the first section of the fast track from Belgrade to Novi Sad is about to end, and I think it will be put on traffic somewhere in November. We've already talked about it here, but it should be said that we've been doing projects very successfully, that the Republic of Serbia has done its project, also the Republic of Hungary, that we've handed the projects over to a partner who's going to build it, and that's the People's Republic of China. The united projects now, as you can see, are building this beautiful fast track, so we'll reach Budapest in two and a half to three hours. The Republic of Serbia sometimes now. The average salary in the Republic of Serbia in 2012 was 29,400 dinars, and today it is 700 euros in Belgrade, 540 euros in Serbia, with the tendency to make the average salary 900 euros in the 2020-2025 programme, the average pension of 440 euros. About how we run foreign policy, because if we didn't run well, if we hadn't implemented all the EU laws in our own law, we wouldn't have gotten these loans, and thanks to Mr. President, Mr. Vukic and his connections, and that he turned to the West and the East, with extraordinary co-operation with the People's Republic of China, Russia, the BRIK countries, we have a lot of investment today. We, thanks to the People's Republic of China, fully revitalised the Bor mine, which last year had the largest exports to Serbia, also Jelizar Smederevo. Also, we're building tech parks. It's built up and it's working all over the place. The Republic of Serbia, slowly but surely, can stand side by side with modern developed countries, although we have been completely devastated, which has been bombed over 45, perhaps 50 times. Although we lost in the Balkan, First and Second World War, wars in the 1990s over two million people, Mr. Vukic, the only one who proudly began to mark all the holidays in the memory of the victims of those people who make us live freely in this beautiful country today. So, the first and only, and he's not afraid to talk about NATO bombing, and he's not afraid to talk about the pogrom over Serbs, and that's the modern Serbia where we live today, where everything is being built, where there are over 10,000 construction sites in Belgrade alone, where the largest project in this part of Europe, "Belgrade on Water", is one of the most beautiful promenades in this part of Europe. A beautiful construction site with beautiful parks, with beautiful infrastructure. That's how it's done in the Republic of Serbia. Just yesterday... I could talk about what we did, not talking about pensioners who, however, brought the greatest burden in 2014. Thanks to the difficult reforms we have come to today, to slowly but surely be the most successful country in this part of the Balkans, but never in their life has been a pension like this, and they will always get benefits, because thanks to them and their ancestors and we today enjoy the fruits of work, and it is up to us to be just better, better, better, to work much more, to build much more. In this way, we will renovate all railways in the Republic of Serbia. We'll renovate all roads. That's what we're champions for. I must also mention "Little Schengen", which, thanks to the wisdom and intelligence of our president, is signed between the Republic of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. What does that mean? Traffic of goods, capital, services, recognition of qualifications and, most importantly, people will be able to, with the help of the ID card, we've acted, come to work in one of these three countries. We also offered a partnership with Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina. If he wants to, they'll be better off. If he won't, we'll get better anyway. What is deficiting in the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, has become a profession. At this point, we do not have enough people to, behold, work in "Belgrade on Water", and then imports of people from Romania, from northern Macedonia, from all parts of our former republics. I am sure that, given the better standard, for the improvement in the Republic of Serbia, for much better in the Republic, people will start to return. Young people started coming back. 90,000 young people have returned to Serbia, and do you know why? Well, because we've allocated 500m euros for a youth employment project and that's what I'm proud of. In young people, the world remains. As for the rest, we only remember when the pandemic began, 400,000 people returned to the Republic of Serbia. Of course, not everyone else. They came here to receive vaccines, because the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the government and Mr. Vukic, and thanks to good connections, thanks to well-leaded foreign policy, received four kinds of vaccines. We're the only country in the world with four kinds of vaccines. Despite the four types of vaccines, there are lobbies that are against vaccination, so I would ask this youth to take seriously what I'm saying now and not just me, but much more professional people than me, to receive the vaccine, because a new strain of Kovida has appeared, which may not be so deadly, but leaves terrible consequences. I've just read that blood sugar can also occur. These are young people, they need to work on procreation, to create families and children, not to listen to certain people who are not competent, speak against not being vaccinated, and the first ones are in line for the vaccine. Please, this is the 21st century. Saving lives is inoculation right now. I can talk a lot more when I talk about the results of our president and government. It was opened over, the president himself opened over 230 factories, and opened in Serbia over 350. Once unemployment was 26.5%, today it is, with all the pandemics, 9%. Here, just yesterday it was opened, i.e. the foundation stone for the factory in Novi Paza MTU, a German company. In the first stage, 500 people will be employed, in another 2,000 people, which means a better one for Nova Paz himself. There'll probably be 2% more people on the bureau. It's about us being on the world average, and that means that, I think, my estimate is in a year, two days below 5%. Thank you for your attention. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8178	Thank you. The word is Rajka Matovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8179	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have very important agreements and contracts concerning major infrastructure projects that are among the most important at the moment in Serbia. In front of us are agreements on improving railway infrastructure, improving ecology, gasification of the Pirot County, i.e. construction of the Niš-Dimitrovgrad gas network, contracts for the construction of corridors and highways, including perhaps the most important and most interesting Moravski Corridor. The length of the Moravia Corridor is about 112km and the end of its construction is expected for 2024. When we talk about improving railway infrastructure, these contracts envision investment in the reconstruction of critical shares and tunnels through the very centre of the capital, as well as the construction of the second phase of the main railway station in downtown Belgrade. Also, we are all aware of the fact that the crossings in Serbia today are being improved and that their renovation and adaptation is necessary. On the other hand, rail infrastructure hasn't been invested in decades back. Recently, we had the opportunity to visit as members of the Assembly Committee on Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, together with the resolution minister, the work on building a fast track in Belgrade-Novi Sad in Cortanovci, and it is indeed a major capital project that is impressive. This railroad represents one of the most modern railways in this part of Europe. This share of Belgrade-Novi Sad, then Belgrade-Subotica is part of Belgrade-Budapest's international railway corridor, and later Vienna, so that, Belgrade citizens and Serbia, will be able to take a train in Belgrade and be in Budapest in a few hours. As far as this represents economically important progress, we can only imagine, because Budapest is a large and tourist and economic centre and how much it will speed up the exchange of both people and goods and services, as well as the goods themselves. Investment in road and rail infrastructure is not just about connecting people and places from point A to point B. These are major and important capital projects that bring our economy forward, and therefore our economy. I come from the Surcin municipality and in this relatively small municipality we expect several major infrastructure projects. Currently, the construction of the "Milos Veliki" highway is under construction from Surcin to New Belgrade and is expected to build a national stadium. It is these two large infrastructure projects that have a major impact on the quality of the citizens of the Surcin municipality. Namely, by opening the highway, by connecting this municipality to the highway itself, we are expected to open new industrial zones, which means bringing new investors and new jobs to our citizens. On the other hand, the construction of a national stadium is not only about building an ordinary football field, but also about the whole complex and the entire infrastructure that is expected from the accompanying content. Real estate prices in the Surcin municipality are already growing and are estimated to continue to continue, and thus not only rises real estate prices in Surcin, but also increases the standard of citizens of this municipality. When it comes to local development and local affairs, I must also refer to the contract concerning the development of the Sava River and the Drina River Corridor, which provides for improving flood protection and facilitating cross-border co-operation in water areas. It is very important to note that this project will cover the construction and restoration of the embankment in selected critical areas along the Sava River corridors and thus will be restored to the Kolubara River, which protects the town of Obrenovac from floods, but also part of the flood in New Belgrade. We all, unfortunately, remember the 2014 flood, and we really can't let that happen again. That's why this is very important to our citizens. The project also envisions investment in port infrastructure in Sremska Mitrovica. The Sava River passes through the municipality of Surcin in the length of 40 kilometers and we are really aware of what tourism potential it is and how much resources it really represents. All these investments and all these agreements that we are discussing today mean opening new jobs, means increasing both wages and pensions. Last night, Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic said the average salary in Serbia will be 612 euros in January next year, the average salary in Belgrade is currently 705 euros, and is expected to be 770 euros in January next year. The profits are jumping rapidly, because we've really strengthened both as a state and as a society, but we've been prepared for the difficult economic reforms that the president has just taken, and we've been following him. I think that really more about our policy, the policy of the SNS should not be talked about, because really, when you turn around, you see citizens who have jobs, who have decent profits, you see that in addition to the global economic crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus, we have not stopped with large capital projects, that many schools, homes of health, hospitals in Serbia are restored, and many will be restored in the coming period. On the other hand, you have an opposition that deals only with threats, insults, lies and lies about the president of the SNS, but also about every member of the SNS, and whose only political message is that Alexander Vukic is guilty. It's probably because they can't steal state money anymore and transfer it to their private accounts in Mauritius and Hong Kong, which they can't use their offshore companies to spend state money and transfer it to their private accounts. It is the only reason for the anger of Djilas and Obradovic and Tepicka and Jeremic. They don't care about the people or the state. They care about their own interests. But I really don't want to bother you, my dear colleagues, or you, the Honorable Chairman, more about them, because the best of them are their results and their performance, and that today their 3% censorship is really high on the election scale. I will vote in the day, together with my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, support the set of these agreements that are in front of us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8180	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8181	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, indeed, all agreements on the agenda today are extremely important, good and useful for, above all, Serbian citizens. The goal is to improve, above all, economic co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the states that are on the other hand signatories of these agreements. The goal is also the efficiency of our public sector and, of course, a serious and responsible approach in the field of environmental protection, but we will certainly continue to invest in infrastructure, especially in the development of our railway infrastructure. So what SNS promises Serbian citizens, we are really trying to do everything from beginning to end, because we want to ensure a better standard of living, so what is the most important thing that Serbian citizens deserve. We want to continue to spread our economic and therefore political influence. I'm sure these agreements, which are on the agenda today, will contribute. As for international co-operation, we proved at the time of the pandemic that Serbia can lead a truly serious and responsible policy. We have managed to provide everything necessary for the needs of our country and our citizens. Not only that, we have shown that we can lead one solidarity policy, we have helped everyone in times of crisis, at least those in the region that needed the help and needed in terms of equipment delivery, vaccines, we have helped both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Northern Macedonia and Montenegro, but we have helped in the previous period and the countries of the European Union. We helped, I'll remind the citizens of Serbia, Italy, and we helped Czech Republic. Unlike these countries that I have cited, Montenegro has given us one shameful answer in terms of adopting some resolution that directly goes to harm the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people, and this shows that this is the continuation of a policy that implies that Serbs in Montenegro have no rights. So, since 2006, in Montenegro, there has been no Serb or government institutions in the state, although the percentage of Serbs is significantly higher, for example. rather than the share of Albanians in the percentage of the population, e.g. in Northern Macedonia. When they cannot silence the Serbian people in Montenegro, when they cannot silence Serbian movements, then at every step and place, they are seeing some kind of coup, they are seeing Aleksandar Vukic, although Serbia and the Serbian people and Aleksandar Vucic, in particular, have never interfered with the internal political issues of other countries in the region. The only thing we care about is the census and so we will continue to help the Serbian people, we will continue to help the queen Serbian Orthodox Church, because that is how we protect the Serbian people in Montenegro and protect our identity. Serbia is today, it is clear to everyone, the engine of development throughout the region and we are offering a policy of future and cooperation policy and we want to activate the Mini Schengen full capacity initiative, so that other countries from the region join the initiative of President Aleksandr Vukic. In this way, we will allow our economies to be 10 times stronger in the future in the future, than is the case today, and certainly we will never agree on some political issues, but let's make our economies progress, precisely for reasons to fight challenges and temptations in the future in a more efficient and much more determined way. Serbia today faces great temptations at a time when we are economically and politically strongest in the last 50 years, and therefore it is really essential that, above all, we preserve peace, preserve stability, have more children, because the alternative to SNS policy results in Serbia does not exist and these results are seen by Serbian citizens. So there is no sphere of social life, there is no area where the situation is not much better than it was until 2012. Today new highways are being built, new factories are opening up, the unemployment rate is at a historic minimum, the inflow of direct investment in Serbia is the largest compared to the whole region, and these are the results of SNS, President Aleksandar Vukic, and these results are truly well understood by citizens and these results are seen by Serbian citizens. It is all the opposite of that and that policy led by former regime members who were only interested in earning money, stealing money from Serbian citizens, opening secret accounts everywhere in the world, and in the absence of any policy, plan and programme, continue a daily homeless campaign that takes years, sometimes with the help of Croatian media, primarily against President Aleksandr Vukic and against his country. So we had a relatively close case that we had the enthusiasm in the media under the control of Dragan Gilas, the statements of President of the Republic of Croatia Zoran Milanovic, who said that Serbia is leading a bold and rude policy. I will remind the citizens of Serbia that this is exactly the man who said in 2015 for Serbia and the Serbian people that we are an ordinary handful of misery. I want to tell this fake round of girls, headed by their perian Dragan Gilas, that because they are thrilled with statements coming from neighbouring Croatia or from a man who talks about Serbia that we are just a handful of misery, the citizens of Serbia are simply not going to, because they continue to place this auto-skilling policy which, unfortunately, they have had the opportunity to carry out from 2000 to 2012 and they want to continue exactly where they left off, that is, until that year 2012, which is with a policy that implies exclusively stealing and exclusively stealing money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not gonna waste any more words on those politicians. What really concerns me, and I believe all of you here, are the daily attacks on the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija, on Serbian children, on SPC property. I believe that if anything bad ever happens in the Balkans, it will happen because of violent attempts to resolve the Albanian issue and the violent attempts to create a great Albania. These pressures really show that Serbia is facing great temptations and we will not allow it, Belgrade will never agree with such things, because it believes such violent attempts pose the biggest security challenge and security threat across the region, but also beyond. Serbia today enjoys the greatest international reputation in the past 35 years. Serbia today has reliable allies and it should be clear to everyone that when we talk about what I'm talking about, Serbia is not a country from 2004 and 2008 and that we will not allow the humiliation of the Serbian people. It is up to us to continue to do what is safe and responsible, that sometimes, if this is the case, and if so, we fight even more insolently and insolently to protect our national and national interests. Just because we don't want to bow our heads in front of everyone like Tadic, Djilas and Jeremic did and because we don't want to apologize to everyone and in every place for something that Serbs have never done, that's why Serbian citizens are giving us absolute and uncut support, i.e. support for the policy implemented by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. I will definitely support those agreements we are talking about today in the voting day, because I think they are extremely useful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8182	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8183	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister of Associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have seven very important agreements relating to loans and loans, and in order to build infrastructure projects that can be divided into three continents. These are infrastructure projects related to traffic, then infrastructure projects related to environmental protection and infrastructure projects related to improving public sector work. What is a common denominator for all these investments is to improve the quality of life of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. It is the economic growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. It's the opening of new jobs. That's bigger employment. It's richer Serbia. This is, of course, the possibility of opening new schools, the possibility of opening new hospitals, of many investors coming and investing in Serbia. What I want to point out is that even in 2020, at the time of the Kovida-19 pandemic, which hit the whole world, Serbia was a reliable partner and in Serbia the largest companies in the world came and started investing their money, i.e. they started investing in the opening of factories where our citizens will work. One such factory is also an Indjia factory, Tojo Tyres, a Japanese investor, one of the largest car tire manufacturers. There will be produced annually between five and 10 million car tyres, and about 500 of our workers will work. Also, Japanese investors have come to Novi Sad. By the way, Alexander Vukic himself opened a stone for seven new factories in Novi Sad. One of the very significant Japanese investments that came to Novi Sad is the Japanese company Nidek. What is significant for this company is that workers in it will have significantly higher salaries than average, but very significant that this company will be connected to the Faculty of Engineering in Novi Sad and will have places for machine engineers, electric engineers, for cooperation and for the acquisition of knowledge and experience at the most modern technologies of our young graduate students, who will have satisfactory salaries and will certainly be a motive for them to stay in the country, but it will also be a motive for those who may have gone back to their country and here continue to live with their families. I must point out that there is a German family company in Valjevo some time ago, also in the presence of President Aleksandr Vukic, Bicerba, opens the plant for the most precise mechanic. That's where the scales will be produced. In that factory, the salary will be well above the average wage. There is hardly a place in Serbia where, thanks to responsible politics and concerns about economic progress and development, Aleksandra Vukic, is not open or factory, I will only mention Rudna Glava. This is the village where President Aleksandar Vukic received the vaccine. There is already an open factory, which also has great importance for the local population. There is no place in Serbia that does not work and build. Serbia is the largest construction site in Southeast Europe. There are over 62,000 construction sites in the Republic of Serbia. At the time of the yellow robbers, Dragan Dilas, Jeremic, Tadic, in Serbia, were 1,500 sites. Of course, they never built anything until the end because their goal was not to improve the lives of citizens, but to fill their own bills or to fill their accounts in various destinations around the world. Also, I must point out that yesterday in Paz's German investor, a cornerstone is set, also in the presence of President Alexander Vukic, for a factory that will produce engines for planes, where the salaries of our people will be three times the average. I have to point out that all the time since 2014, they've been difficult and painful, but only the medicinal measures of fiscal consolidation. Four years in a row after that, we had a surplus in the budget. And what we can praise is that wages and pensions have grown. Today, a nurse has the salary of a 2011 clinician doctor from the time of the reign of a yellow robber and tycoon Dragan Gilas and his dawn. In 12 years, yellow robbers and tycoons robbed the Republic of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, committed a real massacre of the economy and estimated around 100 billion euros. Only Dragan Gilas, a bank robber, in Belgrade left the register empty for a billion and 200 million dinars. He didn't hesitate to stay due to pregnant women or maternity parents, and he didn't hesitate to steal from parents for the price of kindergartens, because he charged them twice as much. Out of this money that today the city of Belgrade is returning to parents who were illegally paying for kindergartens, 17 new kindergartens could be made. Of course, they're past. Lies, robbers, tycoons are the past because Serbia is a country of decent, responsible, honest and honest people. What Serbian citizens despise most is lies and robbery. Therefore, it is best for them to keep digging in their own mud of evil and defilement, for the people will certainly not. They didn't even work for the people and for the people, they only worked for themselves and their own pockets. What I'm saying is, it would point out this project that relates to the integrated development of the Sava and Drina corridors. The loan is worth 78.2m euros. He's got four stages. I must point out that this loan provides for the construction of a port in Sremska Mitrovica. Why am I stressing this? That is what 16.69m euros are for. Because in the water traffic, no one to Alexander Vukic invested anything. He was completely devastated, as was the devastation of road traffic and rail traffic, and no one thought about water traffic. In water traffic, Serbia 2020-2025 envisions a 300m-euro investment. There is other than the port in Sremska Mitrovica and the expansion of capacity in Luka Bogojevo, that is the border with Croatia, Luka Prahovo, Luka Smederevo, as well as the transfer of Luke to Belgrade and thus Serbia would become in fact the Corridor of Trans-European Corridor 7, which is precisely related to this water traffic. We can't forget that the Danube with its entire length of 578km through Serbia is absolutely floating, and the Sava within 200km is also watery. I also have to point out that for the first time since 70 years, there is 23 sunken German ships in World War II, there are conductives on Gerdap 1 and 2, then there is a light signalling on the water corridors, because I have to point out that water corridors and how significant transport is, and how important they are to transport primarily agricultural products, sands, gravel, oil, oil derivatives, that even during Kovido they did not stop working, and that is one of the cheaper kinds of traffic. I must also point out that unlike the yellow tycoon company, which did not think at all of its elemental disasters, such as major floods, this project also provides for the establishment, i.e. the creation of oscillations in Obrenovac and New Belgrade, in order to protect both Obrenovac and Novi Belgrade from those major elemental disasters, and these major natural disasters are about to be calculated at a hundred-year level. I must point out that only thanks to Serbia's leading SNS in 2014, the prime minister at the time was today's President Aleksandar Vukic, thanks to our ability to pass from one of the biggest natural disasters with as little damage as possible. The yellow tycoons left no boat behind, but sold out and sold out those boats that served as emergency boats for 9,000 dinars and thus directly threatened the lives and health of people during the natural disasters. Fortunately, today, Serbia, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, strengthened in all segments of society, also strengthened in the MIP segment, the emergency sector, in the military system, in the health care system, in the system of economic progress and development. Last night, President Aleksandar Vucic said Serbia can be proud in its second quarter, as economic growth is 15%. Of course, one of the goals that the President of the Republic and Government has been working on all the time is to completely cross the highways of complete Serbia, as well as air ports, airports, rail traffic. I have to point out the Moravia Corridor, because it has half a million inhabitants. It contains 20,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. The construction of the Moravia Corridor, the first digital road, is a chance that the same yellow tycoons, which have robbed to the core, come investors, invest, to develop this area, to have a direct connection with Corridor 11 and with Corridor 10. On Vidovdan 2019, the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, opened the civil airport Morava in Brodjevci. Also, apart from the Moravia Corridor, the Corridor 11 continues. Already in January of next year, a 30km-long road section of Preljina to Požega is expected to be completed, which is very important for the western part of Serbia and will go from Požega further 60km to Kotroman, to go further towards Republika Srpska, or BiH, and the other part will go from Požega to the Montenegrin border, via the Pestarska Visoravna, via Ivanjica, to Bollar. Everything we do is absolutely in line with the "Serbia 2025" plan, which is the plan and programme presented by President Aleksandar Vukic, so that our salary is 900 euros, so that the average pension is 440 euros and that young people stay in this country and create their families for the future and their own, but also for Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8184	The word is Mr. Djordje Kosanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8185	Thank you. Dear Minister Matic, with co-workers from the ministry, the Honored Chairman, Vice-President Orlic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a discussion of a number of agreements and agreements with relevant European financial institutions and, at the very beginning, will say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposed agreements in the day to vote, or contracts from this united debate. With nearly 770m euros, approximately what the value of these agreements and agreements is, we will allow further accelerated growth and development of our economy in Serbia. When we talk about accelerated development, I have to say that Serbia is a country that is taking big steps forward in all segments. At this time of the great crisis caused by the pandemic Kovida - 19, when certainly many major economies are on their knees, Serbia shows results. Serbia is a symbol of new values. I'm going to mention here only some of the parameters that speak in favour of how much Serbia, as I said, is taking a big step forward. First of all, it is not a newspaper when I say Serbia is a leader in the Western Balkans as regards investment, with more than 60% of the total investment coming to the Western Balkans and heading towards Serbia. On the other hand, last year, the value of these investments is close to 3.5 billion dollars. This year, we have exceeded 1.7 billion euros in investment. That says, on the other hand, certainly, Minister, you will probably confirm that, on the trust of all investors in Serbia. So, everything we do in Serbia. On the other hand, unemployment is below 10%, salary growth and pensions. As for economic growth, last year we had an economic downturn or a growth of minus one percent, which was one of the best results, and this year all indicators say that at the end of this year we will have an economic growth of 6%. On the other hand, our GDP is at 60%. Not really going back to that time and not talking about it when it was over 80%, I have to say that, let's say, one Germany has over 80% of GDP, let's say, one Greece close to 350%. These are just some of the indicators that support the fact that I have said how much Serbia is going along with the big steps ahead. Returning to the very draft laws of this united debate, it should be said that they are directed to three areas. The first - further construction and improvement of our transport infrastructure, the second - improvement of our environment and the third - improvement of public sector work. I will, for the sake of time, refer only to two agreements and contracts from this united debate. When it comes to the Partnership, Trade and Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the UK Government of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, it certainly defines bilateral relations between the United Kingdom and the Republic of Serbia. He's been going to apply temporarily since May of this year. As you know, Great Britain has left the EU and until that moment, our relationship has regulated the SAA, and since then this interim agreement. What is important for our relationship, i.e. for relations between Serbia and the UK, it is to say that we have a surplus in the trade since 2016 with the UK, and in Serbia, I will say another parameter, operating over 500 businesses from the UK. Certainly, this agreement, which today is ahead of us, encourages further investment and opens the door to further co-operation between Serbia and the UK. When it comes to confirming the loan agreement between the French Agency for Development and the Republic of Serbia for the modernisation of rail transport projects in Serbia, I must say that Serbia must certainly invest in the construction of new highways, reconstruction of regional and local roads, but also the construction of new railway infrastructures, as well as the revitalisation of existing railway lines. In this agreement, we have everything necessary to improve our country's rail infrastructure system. So, revitalising railway infrastructure, rebuilding the track, rebuilding the tunnel, as well as revitalising a large number of railway crossings. Citizens of Serbia will be carrying new, modern trains that will move at no less than 160km per hour. In the end, I want to say, investment in infrastructure, or rather, the more we connect the roads by rail, we create an even stronger incentive for investors to come, to open factories, and hence new jobs. On the other hand, exports of our goods, and Serbia is the dominant economy of the Western Balkans, and our path will be faster, safer and more efficient. In the end, let me say that the JS parliamentary group will support all the draft laws in this united debate in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8186	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8187	Thank you. The President-in-Office, a respected minister with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, particularly respected citizens, has several extremely important laws ahead of us today. However, I would particularly refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty of Credit between the French Agency for Development and the Republic of Serbia and the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of the railway sector. Without quality infrastructure, no economic development, no economic progress, no foreign investment. How important the highways we've built so far, which we're about to build, are nothing less important than rail transport projects. In recent years, Serbia has really made a major step forward, really large steps forward, through dynamic economic growth. We have heard that in the second quarter, growth is our 15%, which cannot be praised by any other country in Europe, by increasing the standard of living for our citizens, where we will soon have a new growth in wages and pensions. So, Serbia is going through the construction of new schools, new hospitals or in short, in one word, the overall modernisation of our society, our system, our country. Perhaps the best indicator of the process is progress, the modernisation process and this process of modernising Serbian railways. In this direction, realisation is under way or is in the plan to build high-speed railways, which will change Serbia better in the future, which will connect Serbia with major European centres, such as Istanbul, such as Budapest, such as Vienna, etc. There are already largely works under way to build a 184km-long Belgrade-Subotic high-speed railway, which is close to two billion euros, which is again part of a grand project, a Serbian-Hungarian project, so the Belgrade-Budapest rapid route, where trains will traffic at a speed of up to 200km per hour. This will be the most modern railway in Serbia, and the first share, Belgrade-Stara Pazova, will be completed sometime in September of this year, so that when the whole project is realised, as foreseen in 2024, our citizens, for example, are able to reach Vienna in about four hours, and from Belgrade to Novi Sad in just 25 minutes. So, along with hundreds of kilometers of new highways, Serbia will have hundreds of kilometers of new railways. It is precisely the modernisation of our railway network that can be seen the wisdom of the state leadership policy of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that we are building the fast track of Belgrade-Subotica with Chinese and Russian partners, while on the other hand, the fast track of Belgrade-Nish, which is also of great importance for Serbia, is built with partners from the European Union, says that state leadership does not lead either pro-Western, Russian, or pro-Kines policy, but exclusively a policy that is in the service of Serbian citizens, exclusively a policy that is in the service of increasing the standard of living of our citizens. When the SNS took responsibility for Serbia's conduct in 2012, it may have mirrored the opportunity of Serbia's then state in our railways. I'm going to name just one example that's very close to me as the Password, which is also very close to all the people of Podrinj. In fact, the Shabac-Loznica-Brasina railway was built in 1950 to stop passenger traffic in 2005, while the freighter continued to take place, but at a speed of 10 to 30km per hour, which means that this stock sometimes took about 84km and 8.5 hours. So in the 21st century when trains travel at a rate greater than 300km per hour, in Serbia Boris Tadic, Dragan Gilas and other trains traveled at a speed of between 10 and 30km per hour to Machovo, Loznica, Podrinj. The comparisons work, a fast train between Beijing and Nanjing, a 1,021 km train crossing in three hours and 13 minutes. Can we imagine an investor who would come and invest his capital instead of in an area where, therefore, 84 kilometers takes 8.5 hours to overcome that share? In what condition did the former regime leave the railways? He left all of Podrinje and all of Serbia without factories, no jobs, no roads. Today, thanks to SNS and President Alexander Vukic's policies, Podrinje is no longer devastated, Podrinje is no longer an end where young people see no perspective for survival, for life. On the contrary, the mentioned railway Shabac-Loznica-Brasina, after 13 years, was reconstructed in 2018 and was restored to rail transport, of course, as a result of large investments, both in rail and in road traffic. We have two large investors coming to Loznica, Adient and Mint, which will employ more than 2.5 thousand workers in full capacity. Realising a very important project of the Ruma-Shabac highway, fast cars Shabac-Loznica, Podrinje and Loznica will be additionally open to new investors who will continue to employ our citizens. This is a policy that citizens of Serbia have recognized and supported for many years, because this policy means that in the future we will be moving along rails where trains traffic at 200km per hour, not 30, where instead of closed factories we will have new investments and new jobs. I will, of course, as well as my colleagues, support these two agreements because they are a sign that this loan further allows for the improvement of rail traffic, because the improvement of transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for the arrival of new investments, the creation of new jobs and, of course, the further increase in living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8188	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing certain international agreements that we need to ratify as the National Assembly, there are also areas of economy, and trade, and energy and traffic. Of course, all these agreements are facing Serbia, that Serbia is economically strengthening and becoming more economically competitive on the market. As rapporteur of the Economic Committee, I also mentioned the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia on Partnership, Trade and Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland. I'd like to look back on that agreement one more time. First of all, I would also like to commend the restoring Minister of Tourism, who is now present here. I know how important this agreement for the Republic of Serbia was, and I know that by leaving the United Kingdom from the European Union, there was a danger of losing a very demanding market, a very tempting market and, above all, a market where positions are hard to take, and even more difficult to hold those same positions in some work. The reason why we should praise, because I think that within a very short period of time we have reached an agreement with the United Kingdom, which is not easy, because I know that they are not even easy negotiators and that they always look at whenever it is an agreement to achieve as many better positions as possible and beneficent yourself, which, of course, is completely legitimate. But thanks to this tenacity, we have received an agreement that still cannot quite eliminate all those shortcomings when the United Kingdom came out of the European Union, but this is no longer a matter between us and the United Kingdom, but between the United Kingdom and the European Union, which they will later reach. I am only saying this in favour of us being more effective than the European Union and we have reached an agreement with England or the UK before. We have laws relating to more consent, to more areas. We have laws that improve, or provide funds for the reconstruction of railways, for the reconstruction of roads, for the construction of new roads, which regulate the supply of energy to the Republic of Serbia. All these laws are very important. One of our colleagues said that since we joined Serbia in Turkey's flow, in Dimitrovgrad, our population has had cheaper gas. I completely agree, that this is one correct finding, and I completely agree that a cheaper energy means a more comfortable life for our citizens, but there may be, of course, very important, but there is one more important thing, Serbia has become a more energy-stable country. Not only a more stable country, but also energy cheaper than it was before joining the pipeline at the border between Serbia and Bulgaria. I'd just like to show in one piece how the ex-cute carried into it. It did not matter that Serbia got cheaper gas, cheaper energy, which would make Serbian citizens more comfortable, quality of life, which would have a better position in Serbia, better competitiveness and in the region, and in the world, it was important for them to say that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, building the pipeline in an artificial, non-economic, non-economic, non-economic way, raised GDP growth in the Republic of Serbia, so that he could praise himself in some, yes, and, allegedly, election campaign. Here's what the former regime is for. Just, you know what, they even missed one more thing when asked by one of the leaders, journalists, whatever, what was the GDP of the Republic of Serbia in that year? They told him 31, or 32 billion euros. It was GDP during their government. The gross product of the Republic of Serbia in 2019 was over 50 billion euros. It just shows how they led the country and how much they cared about the state and what they would do if they came back to power in the Republic of Serbia. If you mention highways and make highways, here, colleague Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić mentioned detailed corridors and roads to work in the Republic of Serbia, I noticed one of her great pleasures, I can say, and fortunately, when one leg of these highways mentioned, which goes towards the Montenegrin border, that I do not repeat all that. You know what they said about what we need this highway, it needs to develop tourism in Montenegro. Watch out, their perception, as they look at Serbia. We're not making that highway or the code of another, we're making that highway for us and our citizens. Because of those same citizens who are going to live on that highway track, have a better and better chance of finding a better and better life, to improve the quality of their lives, to stay where they were born, where they were educated, where they spent a good part of their lives, and not to develop tourism in another country. Let them make their share of the highway, if they will, for tourism, and we make our highways, our tracks for our citizens and for nothing more. The next criticism that you always encounter, because you know, the data says something, some facts you can't hide, you can't even attack what you see, which is tangible. The next attack is on that, the former regime, that we don't need to invest in railroads, in roads, in energy stability, that's wrong, so they say, here's what they call their so-called. Experts ruling Serbia for the past 12 years, until 2012. They say we shouldn't invest in infrastructure, we should invest in the processing industry. Well, my people, aftershock, just didn't say which industry they invested it in while they were in power. Here, for 12 years, I've watched the country where I was born, where I live, fail. How my fellow citizens are getting poorer and then the click that was in power is getting richer. They didn't tell me what economy they were investing in, the transge-frange method, selling fog. In the last session, I read a list of companies, companies, making businesses out of the Fireman that they closed while they were in power. They didn't invest a dime, and they're talking about investing in the processing industry. Here, let's say, they're right about that part, but if you can bring in any investor, it's him and domestic, it doesn't have to be foreign, it's domestic, it's from Serbia, can you bring him to a city or place where there's no road or if there's no highway nearby or there's no water river or there's no rail or there's no quality power supply or there's no gas connection. Can you bring in any investors? Here, I'd like Dragan Gilas to find one, but to open a real factory. It can't, it doesn't exist, it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen. The condition is to ensure the economic development of the Republic of Serbia is that you have traffic infrastructure, that you have energy independence, that you have energy stability and that energy sources are competitive, I mean cheaper or at least the same as the countries in the environment. And now that they ruled for 12 years in Serbia, when they got rich and the rest of the eight million people were getting poorer, they would teach someone how to behave in the economy when 400,000 people were out of work while they were in power. I'm asking one logical question, is there an end to their insolence? We solved the problem in Bora, now they say there are slave owners in Bora, no longer investors. We solved Sartide's problem. They tell the same story. They are now asking questions about energy, green energy, environmental protection and so on. Wherever there is any investor, or even from Western Europe, they will portray him as someone evil who has come to earn money at cheap labor. And during their government, the average earnings in Serbia were 330 euros, and today it's close to 600, 75/80% in eight or nine years, with them not having to pay anybody's debts, and we had to pay their debts. We had to plant that they crashed to raise again. We had to regain the reputation of the country they brought down, because investors who came to Serbia during their government, after only a year or two from that same Serbia, fled with their heads regardless. Here, their biggest friend when he came to Serbia, it was Ju-es-Stil, how many were in Serbia? Four or five years, and when they see what these are like in power, like Dragan Gilas, in 2011, pack your bags, we'll pay you back your Sartide for one dollar and we'll get out of here. The International Monetary Fund, launched here in 2012 from Serbia, that the citizens of Serbia do not accidentally know what our economy, our economy, our public finances, are not to know that this future led by Dragan Gilas and the former regime does not exist, that this is the most ordinary wreck and break-in. And they now have the right to talk about how they care about citizens' interests, about Serbia's interests about how they know everything, and we don't know anything about you. And whatever we do and whatever Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic does, it will be wrong and that he visits every minor settlement in Serbia and every village, every village, and that is what he adds to the voters. He does not visit Serbia to see how its citizens live, and their most likely are the circle of two around Vracar, they did not go further from there, they did not even know what the rest of Serbia looked like, because they went from there to these exotic destinations of Mauritius and everything else, to open bank accounts, to spend their annual vacations, to watch from a distance, I suppose, sweetly as Serbia fails. And the one from Vuk Jeremic, the proud one, the former Chief of Staff, is that right? Well, he's talking about the conditions under which military exercises are being made, so what are the goals, etc? So what's security, which doesn't say, which doesn't say that in 2010, Dragan Sutanovac and Ponos were making representative airings, means nothing was caused by pilots who had a 20-hour flight a year, so it happened that the pilot was killed, that a soldier was killed in service of the military and that a very expensive combat vessel was destroyed. And let's just say, they talk about security, then they were extending their tire resources on planes so they could land a few more times so that Sutanovac, Ponos, Gilas could get their picture taken on those planes. Well, that's the kind of Serbia we found. And these agreements are doing exactly the opposite. Finally, Serbia becomes a much nicer place to live than it was before 2012. That its citizens no longer flee from Serbia, that Serbia is restoring its reputation in the international community that when we go abroad, we should not be ashamed, we should say who we are, and what environments we come from. And these hoodlums, I want them to be little of my fellow citizens in Pogorevec, one place near Pogorets, not specifically in Povorevec, for a decade, 15 years, I think it'll be enough to learn their minds once.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8190	The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8191	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia. We are facing today a set of laws that are the continuation of the essential policy of this government which is reflected in how to help and how to ensure conditions for our people to live more decently, to live in a more quality, safer and finally, more successful than they have ever lived. And all these bill proposals today on the agenda are a prerequisite and just some more in a series of steps towards achieving all these goals. I'm going to talk about two laws today. The first is the bill to confirm the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The old Indian proverb says – rivers don't drink their water, trees don't eat their fruits, clouds don't swallow their rain, everything that's great is always for the benefit of others and according to that, we try as power to work for the benefit of others. First for the benefit of our people, then for the benefit of all mankind, however much it is in our power. That is why we are self-aware of nature whose unsustainable part we are, we are trying to protect in the best way, and this is one of the steps that our country is trying to increase resilience to future risks associated with climate change, as well as to address air pollution problems as quickly as possible and better. This loan will be conducted through activities that will be divided into two areas or two. The first concerns improving the efficiency and transparency of the public sector, which will consist of a series of actions, such as the modernisation of public procurement, the control of public sector employment and many others with a far-reaching goal of establishing sustainability of public finances. The second area will address the adoption of climate change laws and the reduction of air pollution and the implementation of this law, expecting green and sustainable economic growth to be launched. Our country is expected to adopt a series of laws and sublaws, which will help our citizens live in a healthier and safer environment, and among other things they are part of our country's general Euro-energy process. With regard to the proposal for a law confirming a loan agreement between France and the Agency for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, for the implementation of a climate-resistant urban environment programme, its importance is in step with the government of Serbia's policy, aimed at improving and reforming the law, in order to best respond to climate change through increasing resilience to future risks and shocks associated with climate change in urban areas. It should also point out that the loan funds will be used in the form of budget support to promote environmental management reforms. This is only one part of the law ahead of us whose positive effects will contribute to the better life of our citizens. Of course, one of those who took loans during their authorities will probably find themselves to increase salaries and pensions, if election years or simply to pay salaries and pensions, and find them to condemn these laws, but they should be told - gentlemen we have wisely led economic policy in the interest of the people by bringing even a number of extreme unpopular measures, such as that wage reduction, pension reduction, so that we can now worry among other things and about protecting the environment and in this sense that we are also taking these loans that will help us to do this better and faster, and that there are no more concerns than the financial crisis as it was the time of those who received much more financial funds from international partners, but they have located them exclusively in private pockets. We only remember the period after the fall of Slobodan Milosevic's regime, how much money has entered our country and what's left of it and what's been used on this period, we can only remember those looting privatisations on which the Serbian economy, the Serbian economy and the Serbian society have finally been devastated and none of it has been well done for our country or to be fair, arranged at least a little. There's something else I'd like to say. In the past few days, news has been reported that Roma was lifted among the Western Balkan states, at least most of them, it seems to me that in Greece it was only reduced, not completely abolished, but it is on a good path and it is a beautiful news that has made the citizens of all the countries mentioned. And the question arises – if such a small improvement has brought good to all these peoples, why instead of working on even bigger and more significant projects that will improve the lives of all our citizens, the countries of the Western Balkans, some countries in our environment are permanently not allowing them to finally leave this space. Of course, that's where I exempt our country, because we're witnessing that the president as a representative of our country is always leading this very policy that I made in the first part of my finding, which is a policy of peace, a policy of co-operation of mutual understanding and assistance, including those that don't return to us in the same way. The other day, we were witnesses that they beat the crap out of our kid. Little Nikola Peric, from Gojbulje village near Vučitrn, took off his cross, broke and trampled on it. We are witnessing that the only Serbian woman in Djakovica, Mrs. Gasic, is being threatened daily by slaughter, murder and persecution. On the mention of Serbia's great friend, Mr. Viktor Orban, that we should be admitted to the EU as soon as possible as possible as possible, the poisonous arrows from our neighbouring country, which condition us with various conditions, and how we should impose sanctions on Russia or many others, and perhaps they will want us to come to celebrate that criminal action of "Storm", as our brothers from Montenegro do, that action when 250 thousand Serb non-emergents have been expelled from the centuries-old hearth and may also be one of the conditions for us to support our country's EU accession. As a thunderstorm from the clear sky, we are accused of a coup, a great Serbian hegemony from Montenegro, bringing a resolution that does not correspond to the truth, the same ones who have won power on the wings of fighting for the preservation of the SPC, and are now competing to congratulate the day of statehood of the so-called state Kosovo, with great pains to prove that they have not congratulated a similar holiday on Republika Srpska. Why all this, dear friends? Serbia doesn't want anything wrong with you. He sees you not as enemies, but as associates, allies, and friends. Serbia as a reliable partner who keeps his word and respects its obligations is recognized, and they openly say, both Mr Orban and Mr Zaev and Mr President of the Czech Republic Zeman, who apologized for that NATO pact bombing. In the end, US Ambassador to Belgrade Mr. Godfrey, who also said on July 4th that Serbia does not have a better partner than the United States. Finally, Mrs Merkel, one of today's most influential political figures, says Serbia is a reliable partner and needs to be seen in the EU as soon as possible. Not to mention old, close and sincere friends of Russia, China, the Arab Emirates and many others. All of this isn't unearthed. We have earned this in the best possible way, but our goal as a country is not complete if all of our neighbors in the environment do not accept us as friends, and if we are trying to show and prove to all our strengths as friends, often respecting that Christian thought that he seems to have spoken to me. John, who says, "Whoever stones you?" You gave him bread. A lot of rocks fired on our backs and our cheeks. Remember when President Vukic was in Srebrenica, bowing down to the shadows of the innocently injured population, wanting to deprive him of his life, and immediately afterwards bringing and hosting friends from the Federation to Belgrade, where they were in Prince Michael's welcoming applause. Remember when we helped official Zagreb in the form of a donation in the event of catastrophic earthquakes in Croatia, how we helped the village Gorazd in the Federation, how many vaccines we divided and who was vaccinated in our territory and how it was hosted. Dear friends, the history of all our peoples in this area has been a mess. And we're not saints, we used to make mistakes. And we used to be guilty, which deserved, which we didn't deserve. We used to be guilty of being in our churches and monasteries of Orthodox frescoes, and not some others, sometimes because of greed and greed, sometimes because of, simply, poorly-led policies and not recognising political movements in the world, and sometimes simply because of the naked geopolitical interests, the most developed forces, but innumerable to us are the mistakes made, and today they seem. However, that doesn't mean that we can't make up, improve, and that you and we are working to ensure a better future for our children and for us, but it's a revisible process and we can only succeed together. With this attack on Serbia and its citizens, without any basis, this moment of better life is being unfairly delayed, and so it is within our reach. You allow us to finally drive the evil spirits of the past out of these spaces once again and never allow them to return, respect, respect, co-operation and economic development, precisely to what is the essence of SNS policy, which has been defined and implemented by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8192	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8193	Dear Vice President Orlic, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, immediately say that I support all the draft agreements that are now on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because they are extremely important for the accelerated modernisation of our country, carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the engine of the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President Aleksandar Vukic. Since my colleagues and colleagues have said enough about these drafts, allow only a few sentences concerning the Niš gas agreement - Dimitrovgrad - Bulgaria (border). Dear People's MPs, you who were in the last meeting, and you, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia who remember, when we were in this high house, opting for the construction of a pipeline from Zaječar to Horgos, our political opponents, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and others gathered in the Democratic Party, were against it, saying that there will never be realisation. This is where they used to say it in this high house and, of course, they lied. They lied. Here, this pipeline is finished, a length of 400 kilometers from Zaječar to Horgoš and there we did not raise large bells and, behold, the journalists almost didn't even record it. What did these journalists do when at least several times they did not highlight this pipeline that they, most of them, claimed would never come to terms with the realization. This project today, which is on the agenda, only two sentences, Nis – Dimitrovgrad - Bulgaria (border) is priority. Why is it priority for us and not just for us, but also for the EU? Because its realisation will ensure the integration of the Republic of Serbia's gas system with neighbouring countries and not only that, it will also enable natural gas to be added to the market and other supply routes. This is very important for our overall economic development. As you can see, this project will satisfy 80% of current needs. The stock is 109 kilometers long. It is a 20m-euro loan borrowed by the European Investment Bank. Let me now say that these days, dear Vice President Dr. Orlic, we have a daily media attack on the President of the Republic without a single argument. Look at the wonders, those attacks included, believe it or not, and party vice president Vuk Jeremic, former Serb Borvoje Borovic. With great enthusiasm, believe it or not, he received news that Montenegro's parliament was adopted a resolution calling the Serb people genocide. Taj Borovic, a former Serb, brutally attacked the government in Serbia, President Vukic and asked him to stop commenting on developments in Montenegro and the adopted resolution, i.e., respected citizens, to ban our Serb people in Montenegro from forgetting. That's what he asked for. That's the fighter from October 5th. That's the 90s fighter, when our Serb people in Pakrac were attacked, and he was raising alongside Vuk Draskovic the uprising here in Belgrade. For the record. He literally said, "The current government should keep its hands off Montenegro. They want to treat Montenegro as their province. We Serbs and Montenegrins living in Serbia will not allow it." Can you believe, dear People's Messengers, he said that? I ask him – is he a Serb or a Montenegrin? Here, I ask him directly. This is important, respected citizens. Borović's boss is none other than Vuk Jeremic, a leader, or member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, very close Vuk Jeremic with Milo Djukanovic, so if you want Milan Rocen, adviser to Milo Djukanovic, because Vuk Jeremic told him that he would... Is it the mother of Serbia and this of Montenegro? It's a finished quote. Look who it is, what kind of people it is. You couldn't expect anything from Vuk Jeremic, a respected citizen. This is the Vuk Jeremic, who in December 2008 in a conversation with US congressman Ted Doe, quoted: "The entry of Kosovo and the Metohija into the United Nations is the best thing Serbia should hope for," finished the quote, thus giving up Kosovo and Metohija and placed itself in the order of our country's traitorous bastards. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, therefore on 27 October 2010, one of the largest dates for so-called the statehood of Kosovo. On that day, Pristina received, thanks to Vuk Jeremic, a legal argument to push its independence to the end. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am speaking to you, so Pristina celebrates Vuk Jeremic, because the Cypriot leadership considers him the creator of the most important paper in the hands of the so-called so-called so-called People's Republic of Serbia. Kosovo. A finished quote, etc. So you see what kind of man it is, Wolf of Jeremiah. Let's move on. Here these days, back a few days, Vuk Jeremic threatened to rematch us in the SNS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, as they threatened in time, believe it or not, Fascism. He said, quote, that he would permanently ban the work of individual media and the arrest of Ana Brnabić and Aleksandra Vulin, permanently ban, underline, permanently prohibit, as during fascism, SNS, SPS and all radical derivatives. It's a finished quote. I ask the question to the press associations - why did they not respond to such statements by Vuk Jeremic? Mr. Vuke Jeremic, to your threats in the face of fascist threats, we in the SNS will respond with even stronger work, construction of factories, as President Vuki was yesterday on hitting the cornerstone, building highways, seven this year being built, hospitals, schools, plumbing and sewers. By the way, Mr. Wolfe, by the way, let me just ask you, in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I beg a part of the MPs who have no interest, I have kept my mouth shut while they speak. Mr. Vuce, what is he doing to you on the advisory committee of your Centre for International Policy and Sustainable Development, Swiss politician Michelin Kalmi-Ray, who has been fighting for decades for so-called Kosovo's independence? Answer, Wolfe Jeremic, in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Vice President Dr Orlic, this Michelin represents Natasu Kandic at international meetings, as a representative of an honest Serbia, behold a miracle. What is this woman doing to you, Wolf Jeremiah, at your center? Whose policy is she, Wolf Jeremy, you bastard? And you're accusing Alexander Wolfie of treason. And you gave up Kosovo, as I quoted in 2008. Unlike you, Aleksandar Vukic will never, ever sign Kosovo's independence and he said that 100 times, and we know very well. Stop it, Wolf Jeremic and you, Mr Gilas and you, Mr Tadic, deceive the citizens of Serbia with lies. Yesterday and yesterday, on your televisions under the control of Dragan Gilas, you accused SNS and Alexander Vukic of us waging wars in the 1990s, of being war thugs. Well, your Western mentors don't trust you anymore. I'm going to say a few sentences about this because all historians, almost everyone, the United States, Germany and other countries, claim that the war started by the United States, Germany, the Vatican and NATO. What is it about you, Mr. Wolf, Mr. Tadic and Mr. Gilas, what is it about you? Here's a quote from Franjo Tudjman. I quote: "It could have been done without the war, but Croatia did not want it. We estimate that only by war can we gain Croatia's independence. If we hadn't done so, we wouldn't have gained Croatia's independence. “ A quote has been completed. Franjo Tuđman, 24.05.1992 at Ban Jelačić Square in Zagreb. Isn't that right, Mr. Wolf Jeremiah? Isn't that right, Mr. Tadic? Here is another quote, Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia Josip Bjelkovac, which was 1990-1992. I quote, he says: “Tudjman wanted war at all costs. War wasn't necessity, it was intent. According to the concept, Serbs should have disappeared from Croatia. “ A quote has been completed. Josip Bolekovac, Interior Minister, 13/02/2009. What are you doing, Mr. Tadic? What are you doing, Wolf Jeremiah? What are you doing, Mr. Gilas? That chauvinism of yours, autoschuvinism, is a murder for the state of Serbia. Speaking of this, and I'd like you never, ever, on television under your control, repeat it again, see, now I'm going to quote you James Baker, U.S. Secretary of State from 1990-1992. He says, quotes: "Slovenia and Croatia are the causes of war in the former Yugoslavia". It does not say any Milosevic and Serbia, but – Slovenia and Croatia are the cause of war in the former Yugoslavia. "Their violent secession was contrary to the 1975 Helsing Agreement acts. Yugoslavia has been directly pushed into the account by military means. A unilateral declaration of independence against our warnings, they used force, causing civil war. “ A quote has been completed. Academy of Jelena Guskova, in the book "The History of the Yugoslav Crisis 1990-2000" Belgrade, 2003, page 28. Mr. Jeremiah, Mr. Tadic, Mr. Gilas, after these quotes and Mr. Sutanovac, and you said that the day before, if you have any shame and morals, but it seems to me you don't have one and the other, you'll never use it again. James Baker said this, and I quote again another quote: "The unilateral declaration of independence by Slovenia and Croatia and their use of forces in taking over the border crossings have sparked a civil war." It's a finished quote. You know, honourable MPs, where did the secretary of state say that? He said on 12.01. believed or not in 1995 at a meeting of the Foreign Relations Committee at the US House of Representatives. What do you say now, gentlemen gathered around Gilas, about Tadic and about Jeremic? To finish with this Josip Bolkovec, not to mention him anymore, he said, quote: “The Tudjman wanted war at all costs, the war was not necessary, but intent. According to Tudjman's concept, Serbs were to disappear from Croatia," completed a quote on February 13, 2009, "Free Dalmatia". Regarding my landscapes and Serbs from Croatia, Edo Murtic, a great Croatian painter, said, "I felt terrible about hearing from Tudjman several months before the 1990 elections. Tudjman, a latelier, came to me, and excitedly began to talk about Croatia having to get its own state with blood and that we, think, Tudjman with HDZ, would do what Pavelic failed to do in 1941, that 50% of Serbs would have to pack their bags and move away, and the other 50% or become Croats or disappear. And I told him that he was a lunatic and drove him out of the cabinet and never came there again," finished the quote, "Identity" magazine, issue 61, 2003, page 8-11, author Mira Šuar Babic. So, it's about Croatian authors and our autoskillers once heard of centuries and centuries. Former US Ambassador to Belgrade Warren Cimmerman, to see what he said, that Mr. Gilas, Jeremic Vuk and Tadic see, I quote, "I failed to convince Tudjman and Bobetka to give up the war option in August 1991. Tudjman then admitted to launching a general attack against JNA and the Chetnic separatists. When I proposed to Tudjman to think about another option, about giving autonomy to Serbs in Croatia, and thus rejecting the neck option, Tudjman refused any further conversation on the subject," finished quote, Warren Cimmerman from the book "The Source of one disaster", Zagreb, 1996, page 95. Do you now understand, Wolf Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Dragan Sutanovac and others, and you accuse the Serbs of waging war? We have heard terrible accusations these days, Mr. Vice President, and I have to answer to us, SNS, Alexander Vukic, believe it or not, from no one but former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac. You saw on one television, under the control of Dragan Gilas, and otherwise Dragan Sutanovac bears the name "grabs", because he robbed while he was defence minister. I'll be direct here. This is the defence minister, and I ask him – is it true that in the purchase of a mobile system of radio relays via "Yugochemia" in exchange for exchange rates, he damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget, as defence minister, by 270m euros? This is a quote. Do you know where this quote came from? That's not what I'm saying, not me, not the press, but the State Auditing Institution, and also published "Evening News" on July 18, 2012. What do you say, Mr. Sutanovac, to this? Is it true that as Minister of Defence in 2010 you paid for the upgrade of VMA software, believe it or not, 850,000 euros? Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs, that is as much as four times as the computer programme cost when it was bought as a new one. State audit institution on 13 February 2013, and published a list. What do you say now, Mr. Shutanovac? My intel says the device doesn't work today. The million-dollar repair of the software Sutanovac declared military secret, and the job was completed without public procurement and without a public call, by direct contract. Since he's been lying to us every day, I'm asking him -- is it true that Sutanovac, while he was the defence minister, assigned state affairs worth 156 million dinars to his best friend, Alexander Babac? Is it true or not, and Babac worked as a marketing director at that firm? The same Babac is the formal owner of a luxury apartment in Negosevo 51, where Dragan Sutanovac lived. One Sunday paper informs us on September 21st, 2012, page two. We asked him here when he was sitting in this high house if it's true and he says he's responsible for the development of the defense. Dragan Sutanovac, along with Ponoša, who is shaking these days and spit on us, retired a large part of the senior staff at the best age, and when they were the most experienced and capable. Twenty-six generals were removed from the army. What was it, Mr. Sutanovac, about the death of the pies in the Besulian meadows? Let's talk about it and keep talking about this Sutanovac, called "the kidnapper," and I have to say, I'm sorry, a few sentences, since yesterday, on one television, President Vukic and us from the SNS, no one but Mr. Zdravko Ponoš spit all day long. This, respected citizens, as chief of staff of the General Staff, was executed for the Serbian Army. He gave it up as Chief of Staff, believe it or not, even Boris Tadic, such as Boris Tadic, and is now won by Vuk Jeremic. Come on, Mr. Ponesh, how much did the Wolf Jeremy give you? Probably not a liver we'd go around the world for, just to give it to you. Every member of the Serbian Army is ashamed of shame today when Serbia's Army rating is given by Zdravko Ponos, a respected citizen. As a general, Ponos stood calm in front of NATO lieutenants while he and Tadic and Jeremic and Djilas delivered the Serbian army to The Hague tribunal. Isn't that right, Mr. Posh? He promised the US senator that Serbia's Army would cut from 62,000 to 27,000. Is it true, Mr. Posh? Anyone who thought as a patriot was expelled from the Army of Serbia, as I said - 27 generals, the best when retired. I ask him in front of Serbian citizens – why does he often visit today, and even before, Western embassies, for what purpose do you do it, Mr. Ponos? Of course, you won't answer that question, but if you have at least the morals to answer that question. Finally, while our President Aleksandar Vucic is making superhuman efforts to restore our country's international reputation and rather bring it to a certain level, envied, implementing peace policy, security policy, solidarity policy, the health policy of all our citizens in Serbia and the environment and politics of the accelerated economic modernisation of our country, so far Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic daily muds by President Vukic and his family and his associates, cursing them daily, making films that last an hour and something filled with lies, until they filled their accounts by various destinations around the world taken by Dragan Dilas, 619 million, while he was in power, as you know, respected citizens, was commonly naked. The justice of the people will surely come to you. That's what I'm convinced of. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8194	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić. Time remaining for the 32-minute parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8195	I thank the Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Mr Orlic, distinguished Minister Matic and his associates, distinguished fellow MPs and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia and these agreements and these laws confirm that he strengthens more and more from month to month, and I would just like to point out that these laws are today, which we have discussed and that it is important and as far as environmental protection is concerned and as regards strengthening our traffic infrastructure and as regards strengthening and empowering the public sector in the Republic of Serbia. These agreements, as Finance Minister Sinisa Mali said today, are worth around 768.8m euros. So, these agreements are worth a little more than Dragan Gilas did while he was in charge of the city of Belgrade and while the minister was kidnapped by Serbian citizens. He kidnapped 619m euros from Serbian citizens, and if they had collected everything that Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and their associates had taken, they would have come up with a figure if they had taken one huge value. We are today showing that Serbia is taking care of both every dinar and how much it counts and that we have good relations not only with countries in the region, which my dear colleagues from the Legislative Group Alexander Vukic – for our children, but also with the UK and France and with all other countries with whom we should have good relations, primarily because of the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Today, it shows how much Serbia is leading one responsible policy, a responsible policy, especially with regard to the economy, which also confirms these latest results where Serbia is again in terms of growth in the economy, in the current part of this year the first in Europe, and then it should not be a surprise when we have one responsible policy led by Aleksandr Vukic that now in January, the average salary in Serbia will be 612 euros, in Belgrade 770 euros, and in Belgrade it is already 705 euros. My colleagues spoke about how much these average salaries were until 2012. A few times less. So, it's just saying that by 2012, millions, tens of millions and hundreds of millions of euros from Serbian citizens are being taken into account today, but today agreements and greater values are being made to build and transport infrastructure in Serbia would not be better connected to Northern Macedonia either with Bulgaria and Montenegro and with Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and all other countries in the region with which we have good relations. And then the situation happens that Serbia is being attacked. Who's attacking? It attacks part of the opposition led by Dragan Gilas, along with its partners, individual political factors in the region. Then they are not comfortable with anything good that Serbia is doing, so it doesn't suit them when Serbia, as it strengthens its economy, has more money in the budget, then has enough resources to invest in its security and defence system in showing our military force of the Republic of Serbia, all our military and police security forces. So today, it invests in the military and police not to prepare for war, but to maintain itself in peace for as long as possible, because Serbia today is the most important peace and stability in the region and as President Aleksandar Vukic said, while hosting – Serbia will never fight again, Serbia is preparing to be even more successful in 10 years, and the region is much stronger. Now tell me, dear citizens of Serbia, who has this kind of leadership in the region that thinks this way, that our country is getting more and more successful year by year, but that our region is even stronger. So we're not like some of our neighbours who don't want strong Serbia, we want strong Serbia, but we want a strong region, we want strong countries with which we border. Of course, then there is a situation where individual tycoons, criminals, political factors in Serbia and the region are bothered by the strengthening of Serbia, the interference of every military exercise, the disturbance of economic growth and the interference of any good agreement and good law. Fortunately, Serbia has chosen this power in the elections and God forbid it lasts much longer. Serbia today has these agreements that we have talked about and that only confirms that we want to strengthen traffic infrastructure not only because of Serbia, but also because of other countries. We simply want someone who wants to come from Turkey via Bulgaria and Serbia to be able to get to Hungary more easily. Therefore, we want the benefit of all these agreements not only to Serbia and its citizens, but also to have all the countries with which we are bordering. Both my fellow MPs, and you from the Serbian government, led by Ana Brnabic, our prime minister, and our President Aleksandar Vukic, show one strength, one will, show one wish, that every day, every month, you do something good for Serbia and that confirms all the events we have these days because Serbia today, unlike in 2012, has a strong government of Serbia, has a stable course of dinars, has a stronger army, stronger police and one of the best health systems in Europe. Therefore, in order to get to speak and my dear fellow MPs, I will end up saying that, of course, in the voting day, I will give full support to these excellent agreements that I remind myself of, worth 768.8m euros, worth about as much as the former regime, led by Dragan Gilasom from the citizens of Serbia, but today we have that power, i.e. The government of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic, who are doing everything possible to make the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live better, to have peace and stability in the region and to connect with the whole world. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8196	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8197	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will support all these laws, especially for the reason that almost all points contribute to Serbia's further economic development. As someone who built an industrial zone in India, I know how much the highway is an advantage for those municipalities located by the highway, for their industrial zones compared to those who don't. Also, as someone who has a gas pipeline in the municipality where the gas is divorced for both business and citizenship, I know what gas pipeline means, what it means for users, for individual households and what it means for the economy, and let's say that the decision to place its investment in India, in an industrial zone that we made thanks to the highway, is precisely because it has the amount of gas that it needs to produce tyres, and it needs to produce five million tyres, i.e. that is the equivalent annual GDP equivalent of 250 million euros. So, it was too much for the industrial zone that we had the highway, it was too much for "Toja" that we had the highway and enough gas. In India, the current unemployment of 3.7%, following India, was done by the municipality of Ruma, Pećinci, so the overall unemployment in Srem is very low, thanks to the infrastructure: two international railways and two international roads, thanks to even the Danube waterway, because of this, unemployment in Srem has fallen below 5%, I think that fellow Martinovic knows even better than I do. This is the importance of this infrastructure and the importance of the railway that is now being restored in Srem, so it is a railway that will go towards Budapest. This is another advantage, which is probably why it decided to place its investment worth 380m euros in the field in India, and not in Poland because it has a good infrastructure on the highway and rail road to place its goods, i.e. that they can get the raw materials they use, and therefore they have decided to locate the investment with 560 jobs in our country, not in Poland and not in some municipalities proposed in Serbia's territory. So, for these reasons of economic development, infrastructure is very important. It's in a way that a car called Serbia's economy is moving. The economy, or that economic part of production, which is your engine, and without investment, is like the fuel that is poured into that car, investments are the ones that power this engine so it can move along that infrastructure, along the roads. We, unlike the previous government, have the goods that we can export through this infrastructure that we have or will make, we have employees who will use both railways and highways and some other roads that we have renewed to get to their jobs as soon as possible, we have roads and infrastructures that will bring raw materials and finished products to be exported, because all small countries that want to make economic progress must be focused on exports and this country is going in that direction to finance the debts and loans that we inherited, debts and loans that we have made to develop infrastructure and economy. So, with these exports, we also have to service our debts, restore our economy, create a battery, but that personal incomes and future pensions are getting bigger and more profitable, to be paid off of money, from GDP growth, which is going to be three billion more in this year than in the previous year. For these three billion, we will all be able to spend more together than in the previous year, more to invest in infrastructure, more to invest in subsidies to develop further businesses, and in such a way we will all get that money, or in a certain way the money will come to us, to the public sector, and to the MPs. So I support these laws, I don't want us to live in charge as a former regime. We want to pay our pensions and salaries from what we earn, to make as much as possible, that our old people have as much dignity as possible age as possible, and that those who are employed arrive at the salaries of those who work in the public sector. The remaining time I give up to my colleagues who are patiently waiting to give their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8198	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8199	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Rističic for his collegiation and everything else that his experience shows that the time left could take advantage of him, but he gave us the opportunity for the younger ones, who hopefully will after me, given that there is still some time left to speak, so I will try, as well as my colleague Risticevic, in this context to continue with my discussion. To say what is the basic message of all these agreements or laws in the form of normative when we say it, which is the basis of all of what we could hear today from the representatives of the ministries and ministers today who are present with their associates, in the context of the development story and Serbia, as well as the overall region. The basic message is peace and economy. So these are the key things that, in the context of all this that we are considering today, lead to the position of the Republic of Serbia that it can go on, and it is starting these initiatives that we were talking about today, which I'm going to touch a little bit more. For this reason, of course, it is one of the basic rules that there are no foreign investments spoken of today without the development of infrastructure. We see that Serbia is developing its travel infrastructure at an extraordinary rate, as well as any other that provides space in general, that investors, investments, primarily foreign ones, which we heard several times today and last night in hosting the president of the Republic of Serbia are important to Serbia and how much more and more investment is increasing and how important key messages of peace and economy are again. In this context, I would especially like to be apostropheist in my discussion, but when I say the historic project "mini Shengena" which, as the president announced on 28th and 29th of this month in Skopje, will be given a second official title. Call it whatever you want, but the point of the story is, regionally, to say, development, common economic development in terms of freedom of movement and people, and primarily goods and the creation of a common market in protection, of course, of all national and other markets and interests and the future of that region. It is a special satisfaction that this initiative was launched from Serbia and is most strongly pushed from here. This is what is extremely important and it is not a big Serbia project, it is not a major Albania project, it is a project that might be called a strong economic Balkans project or this remaining part of the Balkans that has not entered European integration. To remind once again that Scandinavian countries, and the Baltic countries had these models with a unique approach, performance, coordination, prepared for EU accession. These are key things and this is not an analogy that would be applied here for the first time in these areas, but are examples of good practice and the development of countries that are the same in some periods, especially Baltic countries, and now I'm talking about one Estonia, which was part of the SSR. And they had a transition, but they quickly transformed their transition into different regional associations that are primarily geographical, then economic and each other. In this context, I want to point out that joint projects, in the context of the whole region, that in the future, as we can see in Serbia today, highways, highway networks, new railway networks, are the future that primarily implies that, as the basic assumptions of this initiative are supported both safely and from this place and from each other, we should also call on Podgorica and Sarajevo in terms of joint institutions, in Sarajevo, gave the initiative to accept, and I am fully convinced, that it is my personal position, that there is no problem that future co-ordination in terms of formats that it will receive its form of future "mini Schengen" whatever it is called, to be in Sarajevo or Podgorica tomorrow. It's really the future for everyone. Serbia does not need any preference to have any territory or any economy. Serbia, by its approach, by its development, and by today's agreements, confirms that it can do it itself because it has such foreign policy, because it has such a president who opened and knocked on all doors, especially at that door and got friends who supported it in the most important projects. We had great financial and all the other arrangements. I will give just one example of the public-private partnership "Beograd na Voda" or the construction and network of highways in Serbia, so you can see that Serbia is partnering with the Chinese, partnership with Arab firms, etc., capital, it can bring out such projects that they don't need a story about "mini Schengen" in terms of tightness. But the Republic of Serbia, headed by its president, wants to go to the next stage, to a higher stage, not only in the phase of European integration, but primarily in a regional and joint performance that will, from this rest of the Balkans, the Western Balkans, or whatever it is baptized, create one serious market, in which electricity trains will buzz, as we do towards Novi Sad and whose environmental projects and everyone else will dominate, because such projects have EU support. In this context, why is this extremely important? It is extremely important because virtually the EU predicts more than 43 billion euros for this area of the Balkans if they are to join together in this way for different types of projects. They say it's nine billion budgets for infrastructure big projects that would be going in this direction right now, 20 billion through guarantees that 14 billion could be given through IPA funds. All of these are the opportunities that we are given if we go to such approaches and if all of us in the region, and primarily once again I appeal to Podgorica and Sarajevo, accept what is now being done both in Tirana and in Skopje and in Belgrade, and to drag together, not under any leadership, but, above all, to strengthen the individual economies of all countries individually, but together that we have one approach that will and how much more important it will mean. The basic message, in any case, in all of this, once again that I want to point out is peace and economics. When we talk about peace, the economy and examples of how well-intentioned Serbia is, then again and a thousand times we need to point out an example of vaccination and support to the whole region by Belgrade. Imagine if we all entered into this project together in the context of the story of getting the vaccine, that together the region was getting the vaccines, how much faster this would go. I'm going back to Serbia again. Serbia has no problem with that, Serbia has had four types of vaccines, has enough vaccines, has enough, will make vaccines here in its production. That's more of a problem for other countries in the region. Let's all develop together. Serbia is going well, but Serbia wants to go more, it wants us to go together, it wants the region not to follow Serbia, but rather to follow trends that were normal everywhere in Europe. I don't know why someone thinks Belgrade's pretentiousness to the premises of other countries just because such healthy initiatives are in motion. Finally, once again, these initiatives support the whole normal world, supports the EU, supports Washington, supports Beijing, supports Moscow as well. I don't see on either side, not one address that any of these projects don't support, and it's primarily good for the people who live in these areas. In this context, I want to say what is and is so important, and this is a message sent by the President of the Republic of Serbia at the most important addresses, the world's most important international institutions, which is – the Balkan Balkan peoples. I would add - Serbia lives peace and economic development and Serbia, as well as a complete region.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8200	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The word is Alexander Mirkovic. The remaining time is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8201	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the ministry, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs. If we take into account that the SNS parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – To our children" has spent all of her time at her disposal for this debate, it clearly shows how much the interest of the MPs for this discussion and for these topics, for the agreements that are in front of us, but it also shows how ready we are that every agreement, every law or everything else that is found in front of the MPs is well prepared, we take a good look at every corner and that here in the pneumonia, right where the place is, we discuss it all. I think after this whole day's debate, and if we consider that it's now 6:00 p.m., which is somewhere more than seven hours of debate, controversy, there's little to be said, to be added. Unlike my colleagues, the previous speakers of the MPs, I want to look a little differently at these agreements and everything we discussed today. I want to point out to the citizens of Serbia, above all, things that are essentially depicted and depicting how much better Serbia looks today and how much life in Serbia has changed in the last few years for the better. Today we were able to hear what we're going to get from these agreements and how important it is for the citizens of Serbia, but somehow things go easy on us under the radar, if that's how we can define them. At least today we talked about one fact, which is, a few MPs talked about yesterday, that President Aleksandar Vukic laid the cornerstone for another factory. When we talked a few weeks ago about how it became a daily thing to open factories in our country, here, this is the best example that almost undetectable such things go by and that new foreign direct investment is taken into account. You almost don't have a week in our country without something like that happening or not having a moon to pass without at least two factories, new factories and new jobs in our country opening up. As far as this investment is concerned, it is important to note that we have made so much progress that today, in Serbia, rock foundations are being opened or set up for the factories involved and the production of aircraft engines or factories where these aircraft engines will be improved, but we must also point out that the foreign investments that come into our country today are daily. If you consider that Germany applies to one of the countries that prepares its most thoroughly each investment, we are proud to have more than 70,000 people working in different companies coming from that country today. The investment is worth more than 100m euros, in the first phase, will employ about 500 people, while the overall estimate is that between 1,800 and 2,000 people will work in the factory. When we talk about these investments, they are closely related to everything that is in place today, and as far as the agreements ahead are concerned, for the simple reason that the agreements we discussed today concern infrastructure. You can't have foreign investments, you can't expect new factories and new jobs to be opened if you don't have adequate infrastructure and if you haven't built each part of your country enough. We've been listening to a lot of examples here, depending on what part of our country our fellow MPs come from, they've been talking about how much that infrastructure means to them. They were looking at it from their angle, but I want to look at it from the corner of an ordinary citizen who observes this transmission or everything we've talked about today, not perhaps best addressed to everything that this infrastructure brings. Plastically speaking, this whole package, which is worth more than 700 million volume, clearly shows me one thing, that the promise "Serbia 20-25" made by President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as many previous promises that have fulfilled the clear trust of the citizens that in the coming period we will draw and set before us as some sort of goal and fulfill everything. You know, if you're building new roads, whether it's local or some regional, whether you're investing in railway infrastructure, making new railway networks, or investing in rebuilding the old ones, that way you're not only raising the quality of life of citizens, you're becoming a more attractive place for foreign direct investment. If we are talking about investment in roads, highways, and even in this Moravia corridor that is in front of us today, you have a clear picture that everything President Aleksandar Vukic has said is not just a letter on paper, but this is evidence that we are working on the road and that we are doing in order to achieve any promised promise that has a better life for the citizens of Serbia. If you take into account that every part of our country is being developed today, then we finally come to what many citizens in our country have been waiting for for decades, which is equal to the development of Serbia, every place and every part of our country. We've heard it here and how much it's going to mean to the money today, but certainly what's most important to me is how much it's going to mean to the citizens in their place. We're talking here today, and I think Minister Mali, a respected minister, was talking about it, the Moravia Corridor will be one of the most modern highways and shares in our country. We're talking optical cables, we're talking about having a chance to have a wireless Internet on that part of the highway. Now just look back a few years, when in some places, and even in the city of Belgrade, the asphalt was a luxury, when certain parts and Belgrade, but in much more Serbia were condemned to the ground roads, where the asphalt was a mental noun, now just look at how far our country is progressing and this is your best proof of it. As we have been instructed during some previous sessions, that our country is developing in every direction and every aspect, this is the best proof as our country, primarily the Serbian Government, next responsible policy of President Alexander Vukic, takes care of every dinar and how much each dinar that is saved or created, earns, makes, invests right where we need it most. I'm going to leave my colleague Tomic with time, which is after me, that he's discussing, but I, for the very end, want to look back at another fact. Last night's discussion and speech, interviewing President Alexander Vukic, is something we've all been waiting for for for for a long time and something we're all proud of. We don't have to be part of the SNS, it's enough to live in our country. Because last night's speech and last night's data made by President Aleksandar Vukic prove that Serbia is after many years, not to say a decade, of collapse, finally on the right track, and that we are finally making the very place for life that we have long wanted and long dreamed of. Therefore, I am convinced that many other quality and agreement and law will come before us, because it is in the general interest that all together as one team, and we as Parliament and you as representatives of the Government, will follow the policy of President Alexander Vukic, and make of our country the place we want forever for our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8202	Thank you. MP Zoran Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8203	I thank the Chairman, Mr. Orlic. I thank my esteemed colleague for leaving me time. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in today's exhaustive discussion, we also had opportunities to hear and explain and justify the projects themselves that will be implemented in the coming period, so that I would not look too much at them, because we specifically talked about the Moravski Corridor, which I am extremely grateful for, as Kruševljaninin, since we in particular in Kruševec and in parts of Serbia that this corridor is going through, we know how much this highway will mean for further development of the economy. I will just point out that in the period from 2012, when the unemployment rate in Kruševec was over 30%, we today have under 10,000 unemployed persons on the Bureau's record, which is a huge success of President Vukic's policy and what is evidence that we will soon really have, hopefully, a very low unemployment rate and that we will have to attract people who will come to Kruševac to work. What I would refer to is the texts of the media that and how they do not support all of this in favour of the Republic of Serbia, where it is expected that instead of today's discussion, what has been discussed in the projects to be spoken of and in favour of Serbian citizens, they turn and say - SNS MPs call Vukic and vote for new responsibilities. I'll just remind you that when we talk about borrowing that no one has ever owed this country more than the former regime members and tycoons did. They made Swiss cheese out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but not in terms of quality, but in terms of the number of holes they made in the budget itself, because they made every effort to transfer the money of the citizens to their private accounts in both Mauritius and Switzerland and to ask God for other destinations, and I hope that we will quickly, thanks to the authorities and find out all these destinations. Unlike them, who have tried to drill and dig through Serbia and shut down factories, to drive people into the streets, President Aleksandar Vukic and we who support his policy have tried to patch these holes up and we have succeeded, thanks to the reforms that started in 2014, and today we have the opportunity to borrow and take advantage of the funds, in order to realize these long-term useful projects that will pay for all of this when we talk about their funding, about favourable rates, not in a period like they did, at ten times the rate, where they did not think about the consequences that would lead to the citizens of Serbia, but just watched as much money to be poured into their accounts, or how much better they would be spent abroad and the larger number of doors abroad open themselves and their private business. What I can say is that simple actions speak. There is no Serbia's pedal where it is not invested, there is no Serbia's pedal where no factory is opened, as President Vukic did in the previous period and what he will do. I am very pleased that even when marking 650 years since the founding of the town of Kruševec, besides the many things we have shown that we have done in the previous period, another new investment has been announced in Kruševec that will be realised and has long been waiting for the city, and it refers to the textile industry. I'll remind you that the Red Star in Krusevec, which used to do business, was one of the examples of the confectionary industries that the yellow tycoons managed to destroy and completely destroy. In any case, as we see for ourselves, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they do not need Facebook, or Twitter, or any other network that these politicians use to place their lies or any other media, they see what the results of that policy are. When we talk about the Moravia Corridor, just walk past Kruševec, go from Pojat to Cačka and you will see how far that highway has progressed, and unlike those of them, what the esteemed colleague Arsic says - the stealth of highways we could only hear about, these roads are both visible and how it will benefit the Republic of Serbia and allow our growth rate to be much higher. As we can see, both the IMF and the EBRD confirm that this year it will be more than 6%, the real rate of economic growth, and that rate was just a notion for them, because they knew they were counting backwards and negative. In voting day, as well as my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we will support the amendments, and I call on my colleagues to call on these haters to give a huge round of applause when it comes to these proposals for an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8204	Thank you. Since there are no more statements on the lists of MPs, I ask if anyone who has failed to exercise his right under Article 96 wants to address it? (No) The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8205	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the promoters, I would like to thank all the MPs and MPs for the constructive debate and to thank you once again for the trust you have shown in these proposals when it comes to contracts and agreements that were on the agenda today. I believe their vote, and most importantly, their application, will make a significant contribution to economic growth and the development of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-06-0.u8206	I thank the representatives of the government and everyone who participated in the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding a joint single search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 2 to 9 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 62 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 10 and 11 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that they have been invited to attend: Zorana Delibasic, election member of the High Council of the Judges and Deputy Chairman of the High Council of the Judiciary, and Mirjana Pavlovic, Secretary of the High Council of the judiciary. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3, 201, 202 is replaced by Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, which has been tabled by the High Council of the judiciary, and a proposal for a decision to suspend the position of President of the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin, who has been submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Here you go.
