ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10609	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I will name the High Council of the Judicial Proposer to explain the proposals. The High Judicial Council announced the election of the President for the Basic Court in Krusevec, the Main Court in Majdanpek, the Court of First Instance in Novi Pazar and the Criminal Court in Lazarjevac in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 48/21 since 13 May 2021. Advocacy for the election of the President of the Court of Justice to the Court of First Instance in Krusevec was reported by a total of 2 candidates from the judge's office. On an ad for the election of the President of the Court for the Main Court in Majdanpek, Novi Pazar and the Criminal Court in Lazarevec, he filed one candidate from the judge's office. The High Council of the Court of Justice has established the capacity of candidates for the management and organisation of affairs in a court established by the Rules on criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, competence and dignity for the selection of judges in permanent judicial office in the Second or Higher Court and on criteria for proposing candidates for the President of the Court. In the process of proposing candidates for the President of the Court, the evaluations of the work of the candidates have been taken into account. The High Council Commission of the judiciary evaluated the ability of candidates to conduct and organise cases in court on the basis of the programme of work and talks with the candidate. In accordance with Article 70. The law on judges and the above-mentioned regulation The High Council of the judiciary also obtained an opinion on candidates from a session of all the judges proposed to elect a president. At a session held on 14 October 2021, he established the motion for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Justice by proposing Slobodan Ivanovic, the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice in Kragujevac for the election of the President of the General Court in Krusevec, Janja Tabakovic, the judge of the Main Court in Majdanpek, is proposed to elect the President of the General Court in Novi Pazar and Orle Maslovaric, Judge of the Criminal Court in Lazarjevec, to elect the President of the Criminal Court in Lazarovac. I know you have your biographies, but just for the sake of the public, I'm going to say that Judge Slobodan Ivanovic, he is the judge of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, we discussed this on the board, but otherwise, he lives in Krusevec, is not from another town as it is thought. Let me just say that the traineeship was carried out at the District Court in Krusevec in 1994 until 1997 when he was elected as a judicial assistant, that he was elected as Judge of the Municipality Court in Krusevec on December 1st 1998. By decision of the High Council, the Court of Justice was elected as a permanent judge in Kraševec starting on 1 January 2010. The activities of the acting President of the General Court in Kruševec were carried out between 20 December 2016 and 10 April 2018. By decision of the National Assembly, he was elected President of the Basic Court in Kraševec. He took office on 11 April 2018, and was elected Judge of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac on 11 December 2020 and appointed acting President of the General Court in Kraševec on 8 April 2021. According to a session of all judges, he received a positive opinion on the president's election. Every time assessed by the High Council Commission of the judiciary, it has received an assessment - it is extremely successful in performing its judicial function, whether it is a regular or extraordinary evaluation. In the process of proposing candidates for the President of the Court, the High Council Commission of the Court established a final score of five, based on the work programme and the assessment of the talks. And, let me add something else you may not have in your materials. During the term of office as head of the General Court in Krusevec Slobodana Ivanovic, the court was repeatedly rewarded by the Supreme Cassation Court in the category for increasing the number of solved older cases, contributing to improving the efficiency and quality of the judicial system and to the innovations that contributed to improving the work of the court. Against the candidate was Jasmina Roganovic, who has been an intern since 1994, since 1996, a judicial assistant, then at the Municipality Court in Krusevec, from 1997 to 2000, was deputy chairman of the Krusevec municipality's Executive Board and since 23 October 2000, a judicial assistant at the Khraševec General Court. For the first time, she was elected in February 2016 and on 19 February 2019, to permanent judicial office. So, under the age of five, he's in judicial office. Judge Janja Tabakovic is 43 years old. The traineeship was carried out at the Municipality Court in Majdanpek from 2003 to 2006. A working relationship at the post of judicial assistant at the Mayanpek municipal court was founded on 29 September 2006. The job was done by the end of 2009. From 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2013, she served as a judicial assistant at the Main Court in Negotin. The work of a judicial assistant at the Main Court in Majdanpek began again on 1 January 2014. It was done by 8 April 2015, as it was elected Judge of the Main Court in Majdanpek on 9 April. By decision of the High Council of 10 April 2018, it entered permanent judicial office at the Main Court in Majdanpek. He has a general positive view of electing a president by a session of all judges of the court. Each time, by the High Council of the judiciary, it is valued by an evaluation – it is extremely successful in performing its judicial function. The Commission of the High Council of the Court of Elections has established a final assessment based on the work programme and the evaluations with the talks. Edin Hodzic, judge of the basic court in Novi Pazar, is 45 years old. The traineeship was carried out at the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar and the Court of First Instance in Novi Pazar from 10 June 2008 until 1 May 2011. A working relationship at the workplace of a judge's assistant at the Main Court in Novi Pazar was founded on June 1st 2011. He was elected Judge of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar on 14 April 2015. By decision of the High Council of the judiciary, he was elected on 15 April 2018 as a permanent judge in the Court of Justice in Novi Pazar. He was appointed to serve as President of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar on 12 April 2021. He received positive opinions on the election for the president of the court at the session of all judges of the court. The High Council Commission, which evaluated his work every time, assessed him with an evaluation – it is extremely successful in performing its judicial function. The Council's election committee established a final score of five based on the average evaluation of the work programme and the assessment of the talks. Judge Orle Maslovarić, judge of the Lazarevec Criminal Court, is 62 years old. The working relationship at the post of the referendum on martial arts and disability issues in the East was founded on December 1st 1986. He then worked as an administrative inspector in the period from February 1st 1989 to December 29th 2001 to carry out the work of judges for violations in the Municipal Crimes Authority in the East. He was appointed to the municipal body for violations in Lazarevec on 30 December 2001. He was elected Judge of the Lazarevec Criminal Court on 1 January 2010. Since 1 January 2013, he has been in permanent judicial office in that court. For the acting president of the Lazarevec Criminal Court, he was appointed on 1 May 2021. It also has a positive opinion at the session of all studies and has been assessed by the assessment "extremely successful in performing the judicial function". For candidate Orlan Slavic, the VSS election commission also found final rating five as the average score for the work programme and the assessment from the talks. As you have seen, we only have two candidates for the basic court in Krusevec, and for the remaining three courts we had only one candidate who applied for the ad. I'll read the data at the same time for the next point. On 16 April 2021, the High Council of the judiciary announced in the Official Messenger the choice of judges for the Criminal Court in Presevo. A total of nine candidates filed applications, of which in the order of the judicial assistants three, in the order of lawyers and other persons, six candidates. The High Council of the judiciary established the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates for the Presevo Criminal Court on the basis of the laws and regulations on the programme and how to pass the examinations assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. So, on September 16th 2021, an exam was conducted for candidates who were first elected and who had not received an earlier assessment from the courts' exams. The High Council committee then held a discussion with the candidates and, in accordance with Article 49. The Law on Judges, the High Council of the judiciary has obtained data and opinions on the expertise, competence and dignity of candidates from bodies and organisations in which they work in the legal profession. At a session held on 14 October 2021, the High Judicial Council proposed that Igor Nikolic, an independent adviser to the Republic Geodetic Institute, the Office for the Immobility Catastrophe in Vranje, be elected as judge of the Presevo Criminal Court. Igor Nikolic is 42 years old. The employment relationship was founded on 1 July 2005 as an intern at the Republic Geodetic Institute. All the time, his career ran in that body, where he progressed to the management of the administrative task force. He speaks English, he knows computer work. According to the director of the Republic Geodetic Institute, he has the seriousness and professionalism in his work. Quality, professionally and professionally perform legal affairs and is considered qualified and worthy to perform judicial functions at the Presevo Criminal Court. Based on the rules on the programme and how to pass exams assessing the professionality and competence of the judge first elected, Igor Nikolic passed the examination for the misdemeanor courts and reached an assessment of five. Thank you. That'll be all. If I may add that we expect, if there are any disputes, to comply with Article 201(3). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, these disputes will be explicitly explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10610	Thank you, Mrs. Whiteneck. Does the word want a reporter from the board of directors? Yeah. The word has a representative of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which is also one of the promoters, MP Djordje Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10611	Thank you, Chairman. Dear peoples, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and today we are talking about human resources in the judiciary. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government supported all proposals that are on the agenda today, and we hope that candidates will do their job well and securely, after being elected, of course, in the plenary session of the National Assembly. You are all aware that we have a referendum ahead of us and that we will soon choose judges in a different way. It is certainly something that is ahead of us, first of all the amendments to the Law on Referendum, and then on 16 January I refer to the referendum and we hope that the control package will continue to be detained and that is what is constitutional amendments and envisaged. When it comes to the National Assembly, we have prepared the amendments and agreed with the Venice Commission. We had an inclusive discussion. To remind citizens that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has held as many as 11 public hearings. You've had 13 working meetings. You've had several meetings with the Venice Commission. So it was an inclusive dialogue with everyone who was interested in participating in constitutional amendments and changes ahead of us. We often hear criticism that there was not enough public debate. He says it's being done secretly, under the grain, and of course it's absolutely not true that the representatives of the extraparliamentary parties, therefore the extraparliamentary opposition who didn't have enough support for the people to join the National Assembly, had no 3%, and yet they came and made certain suggestions, and we thus showed democratic capacity. We listened to all the criticism, and we talked in such a way that everyone could state their position when it came to changes in the Constitution. In order for the citizens to know what this is about, we need to change the Constitution in the case of our judiciary, the way the judges choose. So it's something we're doing not just because of Europe, we're doing it for ourselves. That way we help our judiciary to be even more independent. It's no secret. So this is how we try to strengthen the role of justice in our country. We are doing everything contrary to what the former tycoons of the former regime that was in power until 2012, when they made a reform of the judiciary during the night of 2009, which was the most disastrous move in our judiciary in the past 30 years. So this is how we show that we don't want to do anything under the grain, secretly. We don't want to make any cuts like they did since 2009, when two thousand people left out of work, judges and prosecutors. So, in one responsible way, we approach this question. I say, we've organized months of back public hearings where citizens could get informed, let them know exactly what we're doing about changing the Constitution. So we allow for a way for judges to be elected to the High Council of the Judiciary. I say again, the control package will be retained by the National Assembly, since we will delegate a number of members of the High Council of the judiciary. It is important that citizens know because we hear again often say – you leave it to foreigners in the hands of our judiciary. The judges will now be elected in other places. I say, we are these constitutional amendments. For which we received support from the Venice Commission, we provided this control package. Of course, the National Assembly will delegate a number of members of the High Council of the Judiciary who will be defended to have no external influence, that no one on the outside dictates to us here that judgments will be passed and who will and will judge. Therefore, so one responsible state approaches this issue. When we co-operate with the EU, we meet what is important when it comes to this European agenda, we look again at our own interest and we have not failed in this process. We didn't adopt everything they might have expected it to be, to absolutely leave the judicial branch of power, to simply elect themselves as judges without any contortion of the National Assembly. We have incorporated in these constitutional amendments our provisions where we will keep this control role. Thus, in this way, the responsible state is managed primarily by its interests when we talk about European integration. So, everything contrary to what the tycoons of the former regime did, when, say, they entered the CEFTA agreement as a throat in strawberries. They didn't pay attention to the national interests of the most basic things. For example, the customs they adopted at that time have completely devalued our farmers. The Serbian peasant was brought down to nothing. They allowed us to be flooded by goods from a regional or foreign market and thus showed how they deal with all the most important national resources. I say, we, like other countries, are comparisons to point out, when other countries entered the CEFTA, they re-established a certain control package like, say, in customs related to agricultural goods, meat, where they wouldn't allow them to be flooded from other people's markets, like ours here allowed literally goods from other people's markets to flood our goods and that we don't have any mechanism here to protect our farmer. They entered all these things, not looking at our people's national interests. They watched, first of all, just to court strangers and do it today. That's what they're doing today. We can see that they're going after embassies, and that's how they're trying to provide support for their own interests. We also hear announcements that here some new ambassador will influence changes in power in Serbia. That's what the unsuspecting candidate of the opposition, Zdravko Ponoš, says that this is where Christopher Hill came to leave. So they're not looking for support from the people, they're looking for support from foreign embassies. They did it while they were in power, as they trampled on their country's national interests, and they're doing it today. The biggest lie that has been heard in the past about the referendum ahead of us is just about the referendum when they say it is, on the one hand, a referendum where we will give up Kosovo and Metohija, even though it was not a topic in any public hearing. So, we are neither changing the preamble of the Constitution nor throwing Kosovo and Metohija out of the Constitution. We are changing the Constitution in that part of the judiciary and we have said it a thousand times and again you hear lies and the most senseless claims that all this is done in order for Serbia to give up Kosovo. So, on that side, as far as I'm concerned, I think things are clear. Serbia today preserves the interests of our people in Kosovo, we guard Kosovo, 19 states have withdrawn recognition. During their term of office, 100 states have recognised Kosovo and do not let them tell us how they defend our country's territorial integrity. The other lie that often takes place in a public debate, we hear that this referendum is being treated for Rio Tinta, and how we do all of this to carry out Rio Tinto on a small door, so that Rio Tinto can get permission to exploit and how in fact the referendum serves to bring down the threshold of turnout, so that we can bring it under the grain here. It's all nonsense and nebulosis again. Since 2004, they've been in power of the informants, they've then brought in Rio Tinto, and they've given them the opportunity to explore lithium ore here, not us, but them. And imagine what a hypocritical relationship it is when those who brought "Rio Tinto" to Serbia today salts our minds and say that, well, it's our fault that they're here. There's really no limit when they talk about these things and their unscrupulousness really doesn't end. So once again, when we talk about it, we want to, and we said, when that topic was already on the agenda -- yes, we're going to ask the people if we're going to let Rio Tintu dig up lithium, but we're going to bring the dialogue again, to hear what they have to say to both sides, not to trust people who are paid to spit everything that's going on here in Serbia. We should not reject any idea without a previous debate and thus show that we respect the will of citizens. So, the people where they live will be asked in a referendum whether Rio Tinto or not, but we want to hear the positive things that would bring this to our country, given that we are one of the states that can boast the record amounts of lithium, to see how much this will bring benefits to our country. Let's hear these things, not trust those who go out to protest and don't even know why they're here, they're paid to do what they do, to spit in their own country. Let's hear the arguments from both sides and make the decision that's best for our citizens. We should not allow various NGOs who are highly paid to spit out everything that is good in our country to us. If we go back to our history, we will see that in Serbia, whatever good came, the opposition welcomed the knife, as it does today. To remind you that when the railway was introduced into Serbia, the opposition was against it. They were against the railroad, they said we didn't need it, that it was something that would trap us, etc. You have minutes from a Belgrade session, when they held a public debate in Belgrade. The opposition was against it. You have one quote - the honest people sleeps at night and the bastards break their legs, we don't need public lighting. Now, these were the opposition of that time, and they seem to be the same today. Everything's waiting for the knife. "Belgrade on Water" is welcome to the knife. They said it was just a model. Today, when you take a walk on the Sava Promenade, you've got something to see. So it's not exactly their claim that it's just going to stay on the model, because today you have a chance to see that the most expensive apartments are sold at that location. This is the result of the policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS. The prosperity of our country takes place from 2012 until today. We're doing everything we can to raise the GDP. We have a 7% GDP growth. It gives us the opportunity to build roads, build railroads, build fast traffic. This year we're moving into a record 1,200km of highways and fast traffic. Serbia is being renewed, modernised speedily, we are reaching all countries in the region. If we look at the amount of GDP, you will see that we are both on the salaries of the past Croatia and that we are past the total GDP growth and total income. And these are the things that we can proudly present to the citizens here. It's SNS policy. We want to talk about everything. We don't want to throw away an ad hoc solution. If we're going to talk about Rio Tint, it'll be the people in the referendum and how to get a chance to vote. If the people say they disagree, the SNS will respect the will of the citizens because we've always done it. Since we came to power, we have listened to the people's thoughts and never made moves directed against the people, unlike the former tycoons of the yellow regime who did everything to destroy their people's national interests. Once again, we will support all of these proposals that are on the agenda today and, of course, in meeting the referendum that is ahead of us, we will try to explain to the citizens which are benefits from constitutional changes, what we get from it, and then in the referendum we will see whether the citizens agree with it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10612	I would like to thank the Committee's representative. The Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, now have the word. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10613	Thank you. Dear Presidents, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, are here today very important topics. And in the most advanced democratic societies and civilizations, it was never possible to eliminate crime. It's simply something that from the first man and the original human community, as long as mankind exists, there will be crime, and therefore the need for institutions such as the judiciary, such as courts, such as judges, such as prosecutors, to exercise control and try to isolate this crime. When we talk jargonically about crime, then we say underground. It's not even a random term. I think he clearly proves where crime, where criminals, all those who do it and who support it should be, so, underground, underground. The moment it is poured out, and very often we have had a situation to see what it looks like, then we come into a situation that we cannot clearly separate what crime is, what honesty, that very often we have a replacement thesis and that very often those who are promoters of crime, crime, profiteers, war profiteers, profiteers on unfortunate privatisations, etc. They become the cream of society and become the ones people, citizens and citizens look up to. It's something we can't allow. For this reason, the subject we are talking about today is very important. We can't completely eliminate crime, no matter how hard we try, whatever laws we pass, no matter how much we raise salaries in the judiciary and the prosecution. It's just, it's a fact. But by developing human civilization, when we look at how advanced civilizations fought with it before us, we realize that they were actually passing laws. That is how the regulations were created - the Roman Law, the Dušan Code, the Ottoman Empire and the Muslim countries have always relied on and practiced Sharia law, etc. So there has always been a need in orderly civilizations that there is an institutionally resolved fight against crime and corruption. Today, very often, we refer to the United States as an example of this supreme democracy. She is certainly the cradle of modern democracy, the greatest force in the world promoter of something they would call free society. And I know very well the public's positive reactions around the world when some federal judge in the United States is blocking the President's decision. I remember how much this has caused respect in not only diplomatic and professional circles, but also among citizens when a federal judge blocked a decision to ban certain citizens from entering the then president of Trump. In this way, they show whether finging or fundamentally, it doesn't matter now, but they show about what free institutions mean and what a democratic system of divided authorities and shared responsibilities means. The key foundation or one of the key foundations of this government of the Republic of Serbia is the fight against crime and corruption. The Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, absolutely supports the government of the Republic of Serbia, and primarily the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, in a uncompromising fight against crime and corruption, because we have no alternative in this fight. We just have to win. What we're doing today is creating preconditions to end this fight with the ultimate victory of all those people who are truly fighting crime and corruption, and by putting them in positions of both the basic and the higher and the courts and suing people who share this system of values, and then watching them work, listening to the attitude of the citizens so that none of us forgets, that they don't think they're irreplaceable, irreplaceable. Simply, we all account for the citizens who chose us both about us and our political destiny. There's no organized crime and no corruption without the support of the system. When we analyze any criminal group, whether or not it existed here, in our country, in the wider region, Europe, USA, China, Japan, etc., there is no crime without the support of people in the system. These days, phljtons come out extensively and extensively in some media about members of the "earth clan". How did this criminal group strengthen? The moment the people of the system, of certain services, gave logistic support, gave them certain badges or passes, then they became so dominant in that struggle that they poured themselves out of that sewer and that underground and became one factor so powerful that they dared to threaten and eventually kill the then Prime Minister, which is terrible. It's a history lesson that we have to learn and we must never let any criminal group think again, and no, God forbid, there's courage to do something like that. I am very pleased to see the determined actions of the people in the system and the arrest of the people charged with the most serious crimes. Here, we also see this criminal group that's really been written about and spoken about, and we see that they had some support for the people in the system, too. They had their own police officers and prosecutors and judges who had functioned in the system so that they were free to deal with crime, because no one would deal with crime if they knew they'd be responsible for the crime. They were free to deal with crime because they assumed that no one could do anything to them, that they could do whatever they wanted, that they could threaten whoever they wanted, that they could even take life away from whoever they wanted, and that they would absolutely have no responsibility for it. So our MP Group of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will certainly support these proposals as well. I'm not dealing with any particular names or candidates. It's just that I think the people of the Committee of Resistance have really looked at it in detail. I want to take advantage of your presence, but I also want to address some open issues that are very important to my Bosniak people. We had a live discussion yesterday. The situation of Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia has improved dramatically since 2012. By 2012 and the regimes of Kostunica and Tadic were indeed discriminatory towards my people. In 2012, however, nothing overnight can change. I want to take advantage of your presence and point out once again that it is very important that in the institutions of the system, and when it comes to the judiciary and the prosecution and the police and all other public enterprises operating in this country, it is very important that we have a percentage of the representation of all national minorities. So we will reduce the maneuvering space for all those who would try to abuse the national feelings of any community for their daily policy. So I'm not asking absolutely that anyone because Bosniak has to be a judge, but from the order of judges or those who have graduated from law school, passed a judicial exam, completed the Judicial Academy, etc., surely someone who has enough expertise, knowledge, credibility to be a judge, that he can be a prosecutor and that he can perform other responsible functions in our country. That's the message we have to send and send. At the end of that, we have made a coalition with the SNS, because we have seen one trust, one sincere desire for all citizens in this country to feel this country as their own. So I'm saying what I'm saying today and I'm saying it for the truth. Of course, we are here to fight, to appeal, to exert political pressure based on all the data we receive from the field. It is very important that if we have 70% or 80% of Bosniaks in Novi Pazar, or 50% of Bosniaks in Prepolje, that we have about as many Bosniaks in both the police and the judiciary and the prosecution, not at the expense of quality, that we fully understand ourselves, but we have to work to make it not exactly 5% or 10% where some Pandora's box is opened that absolutely no one needs it. So what I expect is that, in all human resources, we take care of something called percentage representation, and that these people have full credibility and that they work in these environments, so that the environment has to support them. I also want to take advantage of this topic today and remind myself of the murder of rickety Edin Hamidovic in Sjenica in August of this year. So, any type of floscule -- the investigation is under way, the circumstances under which it happened, etc., are absolutely unacceptable. Why? Because it didn't happen at some NN location. That murder took place on the promenade, on the corzoo. A man was killed in front of his children and his wife. The man came along for political reasons, the reasons for political impatience shot at the man, there could have been more than a dozen people. We need to send a clear message to all those who act like this, primarily now I'm talking to the police, but I'm also saying when it comes to the judiciary... The perpetrator of this most serious crime has had several proceedings in the primary court and it stands in some drawers. Now I'm asking, if you and the prosecutors and the judges had responded in time, would that have happened? Of course it wouldn't happen, but, you know, someone's good with some lawyer, there's a certain... I've received such information, I have no concrete evidence, but it's very symptomatic that in some procedure it's done in the time frames as planned, and in that case, some others are standing by the drawers. Also, I want to mention another case, which is the case of Ernad Bakana, who was injured at the 2019 pedestrian crossing in Zemun, and still the court case hasn't left the dead end. Now I really don't want to believe that it's in any way motivated by the national membership of the performer and the one who got hurt, but I'm asking you to have you in mind and all the competent authorities to let some people see it that way, some don't see it, but that someone can also abuse it. In order not to enter the speculation field, I expect all these cases that I've counted by the authorities to see why it's so late and to respond in time. As far as our party is truly honest and committed to working in the fight against crime and corruption, I would like to point out that Rachmetli Academyman Muamer Zukorlic also wrote the book "Isolating Crime – the Foundation of the Survival of the Community". In voting day, we will support your proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10614	Thank you. The word now has Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10615	Thank you, Chairman. Respected representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, colleagues and colleagues, Monteskje wrote in his spirit of law that there is no freedom unless the judicial authority is separated from the legislative and executive authorities. With this thesis, I would start today's exposure with the goal of stressing that the achieved degree of independence of the judiciary and the judicial system is in general the key and key indicator of the achieved level of rule of law in all democratic countries, including Serbia. In order to achieve the independence and impartiality of courts, international law provides for different models and criteria that it defines as necessary to meet in order to be able to talk about an independent and impartial judiciary. In this regard, it pays great attention to the strict criteria of selection, but also to the transparency of the choice of judges. In international law, there is also no agreement on the way and appointment of judges and this is left to the discretion of each state, provided that this selection must certainly be based on professional qualifications of candidates, but also on their moral qualities. That's why I think it's crucial to appoint judges. We have two questions. First, it refers to the criteria applied during their appointment, and the second question concerns the body that chooses and the procedure by which the holders of judicial functions are elected. Therefore, the criteria for the appointment of judges must be a guarantee of the inflow of the best legal staff into the judicial system in both intellectual and professional but ethical terms. It's a subject today that I want to talk about a little bit more, that is, to devote a little more time. In fact, you mentioned earlier that at the meeting of the Committee on Justice held last week, when considering your proposals, it could have been suggested that the proposals for judges first elected as judges, but also for the presidents of the courts, were not sufficiently reasoned. I kind of have to agree with that, completely without question, that when deciding on candidates absolutely respects the procedure, that candidates whose choice we are talking about today are really the best of all those who have applied, but I still think that their choice is not sufficiently concrete. Here I think of a decadently reasoned attitude from which we will unequivocally see the quality of the proposed candidates that we are talking about today, except for the biographies that we have before us. This is necessary for a number of reasons, thus narrowing down the room for possible doubt in the choice, which in the whole further process leads to one legal certainty, creates a comprehensive picture of the judicial system in our country. As for the President of the Court, in some of the previous sessions we discussed, I also pointed out that the presidents of the courts, other than the powers they have under the law, must be more open, but also more transparent to the public, in order for them to understand them better. If the actions they take are not transparent enough, it is only natural that a completely wrong picture will be created in public from the one that is real in the end. The presidents of the courts are tasked with maintaining the reputation and integrity of the court for whose work they are responsible. Our parliamentary group will, in that sense, as it has done so far, and in the future give full support in their work. Judges plead our life and all freedoms that follow life and greater duties than the judge's, which is why the old Romans still said that the duty of judge is sacred duty, and it is no accident that it is said so. The role of courts and judges by citizens is most often perceived in the most possible sense. It is the judge who handles the trial, the oral, the public debate, who hears witnesses, who ultimately makes a verdict that is the crown of the case, but in reality, that verdict should be reached. It is only a small part of what the judges and the presidents of the courts do in their daily work within their jurisdiction and duties. They are on duty or are on alert in days when the court does not work, oversees the work of certain organisational parts in court, contacts with the public, etc. In essence, they have much more to do than just pass a verdict that is seen as a crown, or as the last in a series of these tasks they have. Notwithstanding all the above obligations and any additional duties which the judges and the presidents of the courts have, I would like to place first that the judges have a legal and ethical obligation to act with the same diligence in each individual case, or case for which they are in charge. Therefore, conscience, expertise, and wisdom may well be the best definition of a judicial call itself. It also best paints dignity, but also the dignity of the judge's duty and its importance in the lives of the citizens, and thus also the role of the judge in society as I can say, the image of justice, because that is how it is perceived. Knowing that's not an easy task at all, I'm sure by your reactions I'm right. I'll tell you an interesting anecdote from legal history, which carries with it a strong message, if we know we're reading between the lines. At the beginning of his legal career, Roosevelt met with a very complex and demanding job, or litigation. His opponent in this case was an experienced New York lawyer whose skills and speech for young Roosevelt were then a great example. Yet, this New York lawyer made one big mistake despite his long experience. His speech to the jury lasted four hours. This was also the only chance for a young lawyer to show that he could learn one lesson from this and he received a word after which Roosevelt addressed the jury and said: “Lord, you heard the evidence. You also heard a brilliant speech from my esteemed colleague. If you believe in him and do not believe in the evidence, you will make a decision in his favour." After only five minutes of uplifting, the court made a decision in favor of Roosevelt's opponent. Do you understand the point of an anecdote like this? It contains a strong message to judges, and it constantly reminds them that the burden of responsibilities they have is not negligible, that they have an obligation to act on their conscience to ensure that justice is finally achieved. You know, a subpoena is the privilege of a small number of members of the legal profession, and society has given them trust, but also the authority to decide on the protection of rights and their freedoms. No doubt the judges cannot influence the number of lawsuits the parties will file. However, the judge and how he was responsible for what he did, not for what was not possible at that time. Like all other citizens, judges have their own private life, judges go shopping, judges cook lunch, take their children to school and kindergarten and on top of that, they are very often targeted at condemnation when there is no expected response to the judges themselves. This is very often not the focus of public interest because we view them exclusively as someone who decides on our fates and all our thinking is mostly there and ending. In the end, I am sure that the future judges and presidents of the courts that we are talking about today will be able to exploit all their qualities, that with their security they will fight for justice as they have fought until today, about them here in the Assembly, that is, in plenary. We are currently on track for the adoption of important constitutional reforms in order to strengthen independence, impartiality and greater transparency of the judiciary, and this must be a priority for each of us. Finally, Mahatma Gandhi said: “There is also a higher judgment than a court of justice, and this is a judgment of conscience, and he is walking about all the other courts. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10616	I thank the authorised representative of the SDPS. Dear People's MPs, before we continue our work, allow me to welcome in yours and in my own name the participants 101. The ROZ-ROT seminar of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which monitors part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Please welcome the guests present. Thank you. We're going back to work. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Tom Fila.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10617	Good afternoon, Madam President. I also welcome these from the gallery. Before I start speaking, one thing was not clear to me from your presentation, a colleague from the VSS. You asked us a question that if we were to challenge someone, we should give an explanation. Whether it's a criticism of the work so far, because I, when my colleague Dabic challenged the last time, agreed and that's enough explanation. Is that criticism or did you call on the Rules of Procedure, I don't know. I hope you'll tell me. Now let me get to the point. The SPS parliamentary group will support the VSS proposal, because it will be supported, as I have heard from my colleagues Dabic, and from the parliamentary group of our coalition partners and we will do so, as we have done so far. I want to tell you something, from my great experience, from my long experience. A judge in a big city and a judge in a small town is not the same. It is very important who will be a small-town and medium-sized judge, medium-sized for Serbia that has less than New York. That's why I've always been in favour of paying special attention to who's gonna be president of the court and who's gonna be the judge in one particular place, because he's more important, much more important than in Belgrade, where no one knows anyone and who's the Supreme Court president and who's the judge and who's a member of the VSS, except us, of course, who's the profession. That's why it's very important to take care of these people, because they're in small places what we call gentlemen. You know, there used to be a pop and a teacher in the villages, and in smaller places where there's a court, that's the judge. That's why it's important to have a reputation. As for what you've suggested, the man whose office has expired as a public prosecutor, I think we should wish him the name of the Assembly a peaceful retirement day, because if he was a prosecutor for 40 years, he certainly didn't have a quiet day. As for the other proposals for the presidents of the courts, I am glad that the president in Krusevec spent his youth in Krusevec. Last time I resented you, I didn't look well, so that's my kind of apology. So I'm withdrawing that remark of mine. As far as Preshev is concerned, a colleague from the SNS has explained to me what this is about. I accepted, and we have no objections to any of that, all of what you suggested. What my colleague Dabic started talking about and what we're going to talk about, for a long time, while he's giving us time, these are amendments -- amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He deprives the Assembly of any influence on the choice of judges, which is not entirely acceptable to me. I have stood up all the time, and I am not alone, that the first choice of judges should remain in the National Assembly, and that later the Assembly no longer interferes in the choice, nor in the process of progress, resolutions, etc. Among other things, and this question I asked you on several occasions, the VSS proposals went with a fellow Djukanovic as one of the members. We were from the SPS sure that this is it, that those numbers stay as you suggested. Then we heard the remarks. Last time I heard a colleague, Dabic, and I accepted it, that the reasons for security were, and so on. I've been called on the phone a million times. Why is that? What does that mean? Well, what does that mean? Well, I said so, so he exposed a man who had reason not to be an MP. But there's something else I want to take advantage of. The moment we are deprived of the first election, the question arises – who are you going to watch or what the VSS says to be received without any objections? That's one thing to think about. That is why I remain in my position today, and I will accept what the SPS Parliamentary Group is saying and I will vote that way, because no matter what I am a lawyer, I am also an SPS MP and there is some discipline that we must deal with and which we must respect. The judge in both a small place and a large place must be independent in making a decision, in the way in which the proceedings are conducted, in judgment, in the metrics, but he can't be irresponsible to me, absolutely free because none of us are, none of us. The judicial function is public and relevant to every legal state and implies responsibility. What kind of responsibility is that? Next, we'll get to this second one. It's a good thing that this Judicial Academy, which you've deliberately advocated to push into the Constitution, has fallen out of it. It's also good, and it's one of the things that I fought for, that the way I vote both with prosecutors and in court, in the VSS to cut short, to determine by law and not by the Constitution, because changing the Constitution if it's not practical is Sisif's job and that's good. Now I'm gonna say something that's not good, even if I'm accused of being an SPS or a lawyer. There's no lawyers in all the amendments, she's disappeared from all the bodies. You know very well that the judiciary consists of three levers. It is the prosecution, in order, and the lawyers, and the judgment in the end, and what we say, God in heaven, the judgment of the earth. I'm so educated, that's how I want to believe. I've never seen a judge who was corrupt. I read it in the paper, but I didn't see any. It means I had the right company. We have a problem with this assembly voting with two-thirds of the judge, but I don't know if any of the next congregations are going to be. So, we can predict that it is possible that judges and prosecutors are not elected, or worthy lawyers, prominent lawyers are not elected because they do not have two-thirds and prosecutors in the Assembly. At that time, we introduced a body that would be elected by judges and prosecutors, or elected by prominent lawyers. In that body, I sought and proposed to be representative or president of Serbia's Bar Association. Why? Because there's a prosecutor in that body. There's no D.A. in the V.S., there shouldn't be a lawyer either, but here when a prosecutor's office is put in, then he's got to be a lawyer. Instead, he was put in, who doesn't belong there at all, the Protector of the Citizens, because he's the prosecutor in that body, and since he's already a prosecutor, then he's supposed to be a lawyer, not a Protector of the Citizens. Where the judges are, where the prosecutors are, that's where the lawyers are. More interesting, the last meeting rejected the SPS amendment in which we asked the Citizens' Protector to be a lawyer. Even we asked, a lawyer with a judicial exam to be stronger, because the one spoken of by fellow Martinovic had no exam, so he went into politics. It doesn't matter what his name is. Now we've passed a law by which the Guardian of Citizens doesn't have to be a lawyer, so now I'm curious, how will that wrongdoer, say, determine which one of us is the prominent lawyer? And that's why I'm against the fact that the Guardian of Citizens disappears from that story at all, rather than being a lawyer and the exam, because a lawyer without a legal exam, it's half a lawyer. What is this Protector of the Citizens? He's a management controller, he can't even change the law, he can't change the provisions, he can just point out that something's wrong. So how he's going to decide for us, because it can happen that we're inconsistencies, I'm certainly not going to be there, but these younger ones, how he decides who's a prominent lawyer or it's going to be a political function, so who has most of them has a prominent lawyer. That's why I don't think the head of the board can be a member of this council. I don't want to keep you long, because this is a question we'll talk about many times, but that's what I wanted to tell you. I don't know if there were enough arguments in earlier cases, when the judges were challenged, because as far as I understand my colleague Dabic, these won't be challenged. We didn't know in the SPS whether they'd be challenged or not. We didn't know, and then that argument they made was acceptable or unacceptable. It was acceptable for us, and we voted that way. That's why I'm saying it again, we're going to support these proposals, and I want a nice and happy pension from my colleagues. Thank you very much. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10618	I thank the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. The word is Snow White. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10619	Just to take a look at the words of a esteemed, esteemed colleague, attorney for Tom File. What I was saying, if I was expecting an explanation, that's why we could discuss it. You know for a judge it is necessary to meet the conditions of expertise, competence and dignity and we appreciate it in the course of election procedures when we send to parliament proposals, when MPs only dispute, and we don't know why and when they say it's for security reasons, as it was the last time. It's not clear to us what this is about, does it mean that some candidate is unworthy, since these candidates are also later reporting to the competition and we don't know how to behave, we have to have an argument. As for your observation that it's hard to be a judge in a small place, I know it best. Here, tomorrow is the 23rd year of my election as judge in this House, and I am doing my duty in a small place. It is much harder to be a judge, these are experts who have to enjoy the greatest possible reputation and have to take care of both their expertise and their dignity and their behaviour in both private and social terms and professional terms. However, by making remarks occasionally, as regards the candidates we propose, I must tell you that the judge's function is no longer as attractive as it was. That's what we now see from candidates' applications except in major cities. What we have seen so far is that there have been very good candidates in Novi Sad to elect the judges of the Court of Justice and we have further competitions and we hope that those not elected in the first round will certainly be elected now. They're really perspective young, professional people. There are, of course, other cities, but somehow in smaller places, there is less competition and less interest. It may be some kind of system problem, but we can talk about it some other time. As for the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the High Council also held talks with the Venice Commission, made its remarks. Of course, praise in the part where the proposed solutions were adequate and in line with our commitment to improving judicial independence. All objections to the VSS have been adopted. The two were crucial, the composition of the High Council, because we asked for the VX president to enter its composition, to be called the Supreme Court in the future. I don't have to be president of the VSS automatically, but it was important for us to be a member of the VS. The second complaint was applied in the manner of decision-making in the VSS. We felt the same way that you pointed out, that it would be very difficult for that decision to be resolved by the Constitution, so in case there was a blockade, the Council couldn't function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10620	Thank you. For our children, the MP Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10621	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the VSS, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I see that the representatives of the High Council pay the most attention today to the way the judges disputed, and we will certainly discuss this in the course of this debate. I think there is nothing controversial that the National Assembly as the most legislative body discusses the future candidates for the holders of judicial functions and that we give our opinion of the proposed judges who come to us by the VSS, because, as Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic said in previous discussions, we must not allow 2021 to return to the self-government system, and then listen to the opinions and views of different organisations that we should do this work, or how we should be the bearers of a part of sovereignty that the citizens handed over to us in the free and democratic elections in June 2020. I really think it's good to hear the opinion of the MPs when we talk about holders of judicial functions. Today, we are facing proposals for three decisions that come to us from the VSS and which are addressed to the National Assembly for decision. I consider these decisions to be an indicator of good practice that exists in the current assembly session, because that is how there is a desire and intention to ensure the normal functioning of the judicial authorities. One of these ways is certainly the choice of future judicial holders, as well as the election of the president of courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to the motion for decisions relating to the choice of judges and concerning the election of the President of the Courts, today we have before us a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor in Kursumlia. The Law on Public Prosecutor's Offices makes it clear that the public prosecutor's office may cease on a personal request, that it may cease due to the completion of the working century due to the loss of the prosecutor's ability or resolution. Also, the Law on Public Prosecutor's Offices made it clear that the public prosecutor's office would cease if the attorney general turned 65 or 40 years of employment, and the State's chief prosecutor, in line with all of the above, found that the conditions had been met for Rank Maksimovic, a public prosecutor from Kursumlija, to cease the office of public prosecutor on 22 January 2022. I believe that this is the decision of a formal character, and the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – will vote positively for our children in voting day. The second proposal for a decision concerns the choice of a legal holder in the Presevo Criminal Court and this way we also allow the Presevo Criminal Court to function normally, to continue working with a sufficient number of judges, and this decision is also the result of a procedure conducted under the Law on Judges. The third proposal for a decision today before us by the MPs concerns the choice of the future presidents of the courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The High Council of the judiciary, which is its legal jurisdiction, has established a list of candidates for the presidents of the basic courts in Kraševec, Majdanpek and Novi Pazar, as well as the Criminal Court in Lazarjevac. In this procedure, in order for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to know, the High Council of the judiciary has also established the expertise, dignity and training of each candidate individually, which are very important elements when we talk about persons who will also be at the head of courts in the future, in the next four years. Because being President of the Court is one great honor and responsibility, because you come from a collective court whose work you will organize in the next four years, but on the other hand you are the first among your morals and your honor to show to future holders of judicial functions and already existing future, or already existing holders of judicial functions, how to perform this responsible function in the best and most independent way. The presidents of the courts will certainly face many situations in the coming period where they will have to show their knowledge, they will have to show patience, as well as the desire for our judiciary to be more effective and up-to-date, in order for Serbian citizens to get to justice faster, because in this way they can only protect their rights guaranteed by law and have full confidence in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. But what we have to agree on is that trust in the Serbian judiciary was completely lost in 2009 and that is a fact that cannot be disputed, and whenever we representatives of the SNS in any media talk to representatives of opposition parties and when we say that it is the most discreet reform of the judiciary in Serbia's modern history, they have nothing to say to us because it is true. Because this is a flagrant example of how the former regime's representatives led the judiciary under political influence, the political influence of the former DS. The Serbian Progressive Party, when it came to power in 2012 and 2013, promised Serbian citizens that we would make Serbia a better and better place to live. We promised higher wages and pensions, and we did it in the years that followed us. We've promised better health care that can be seen in the course of the coronary pandemic of the virus. But when we talk about today's topic, we have promised that by no decision of our own, we will not go into the independence of the judicial authority, as the third branch of the government, as the independent branches of the government, and that we will not, by any decision or by any of our actions, influence the objectivity, that is, the bias or impartiality of the bearers of the judicial and prosecutorial functions. This is very important to us, and we point to the case when we adopt decisions that come to us by the High Council of Justice, but we also show when we discuss the proposals for laws that come from the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. I have to remind you, and we have talked about it many times, that the representatives of the DS are this hall here where we are sitting today and the congregation majority that they had at the time, used to adopt laws to bring the direct judiciary under political influence, or people who were at the top of the DS. Anyone can't tell me it's not true, they can't tell me that Nata Mesarovic didn't participate in it, she can't tell me that Snezana Malovic didn't participate in it, she can't tell me that Dejan Ciric didn't participate in it and the other members of the first summons of the High Judicial Council. They're people who were exponents of DS. Don't tell me these people aren't responsible for the fact that 1,500 people remain on the street. They're responsible. For just a short period from the end of 2009 to the beginning of 2010, we saw how for a short period, the judiciary could paint itself into yellow and blue DS. Because someone needed to show that his résumé said he was a reformer of the Spanish judiciary. What could Snow White Malovic do when she was 34? They all swore in Snezana Malovic, because later in the re-election she provided them with seats in the basic, higher, appeals and Supreme Casation Court. Snezana Malovic, who at 34, says working disputes will end in six months. We see how long they end today, they end in two and a few years. So, people, let's get 11 years later and accept the fact that the representatives of the former regime have destroyed our judiciary and that we are trying to correct these stains today. The most important thing for us is that Serbian citizens have confidence in the Serbian judiciary, because when we know that they have confidence in the Serbian judiciary and in the legal order, then we know that we are doing the right thing. That it is important for the judiciary to be and remain independent of showing the process of change relating to the Constitution as the highest legal act launched in the National Assembly a year ago. We don't mind the fact that the judiciary is completely independent, we want it. This shows that the first choice of judges will be removed from the National Assembly in VSS and DVT and that the chairman of the Committee on Justice will not be a member of VSS and DVT in the future. It is a sufficient indication of desire and intent that we do not want to influence the Serbian judiciary. What else do we have to do? What are we supposed to do when we listen to opposition party representatives say it's not good? I believe it's not good for them. They would prefer it to remain this way, if tomorrow in some way only known to them, come here to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and never give us support for a two-thirds change in the Constitution, because they want to control the judiciary, it's important to them at this point. How come you implemented the 2009 and 2010 reforms, and then only happens minus negative. Three million unsolved cases, a destroyed judicial network. To whom should five municipal courts in the city of Belgrade form one basic court? Who should have been charged with judicial reform by then by prosecutors who were elected during the DS with bringing charges against criminal groups. Remember only the bankruptcy mafia, which has been under way for 17 years, which has resulted in an acquittal, so the higher court's account has been blocked for a year to pay the costs. Why hasn't any of these prosecutors been called to account? Is that why Natu Mesarovic never called for responsibility? The only responsibility was because she was not allowed into the bar. I totally agree with that. A woman who has completely destroyed the Serbian judiciary, a woman who tells us at the prime minister's trial that she has just received a verdict and will read the verdict. What is important is that we started this process of change relating to the Constitution, part of the judiciary, and we get commendation from many international organisations, and among them by the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission tells us we're doing a good job. To do a good job has been shown in the European Commission report that we have made progress in the area of justice, but that we lack some more things, or we adopt the recommendations of GRECO. Remember, they honor us today because we are working on the process of changing the Constitution regarding the judiciary. We are not working on any other part, we are not working on the preamble of Kosovo, we are not working to ensure that they, as they say, are going to push through the question "Rio Tinta". He won't. Don't scare the citizens of Serbia. We will only be here in the House of the National Assembly to discuss the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. How do they know how we're gonna decide? How do they know if there will be or won't be an amendment? Will that text be identical to the one that entered the National Assembly? Only scares Serbian citizens, deceives Serbian citizens. Remember that they rejected the Venice Commission's recommendations, did not integrate into the Constitution in 2006 and thus created the possibility of the legislative executive authority's influence in the election of judges. Today, representatives of opposition parties today honor this responsible and serious process that is being conducted here in the National Assembly. It really scares me, when I talk about certain representatives of the opposition, what is the extent of ignorance and intricacies in them, who tell us about it. You have the vice-president of the People's Party, Vuk Jeremic, lawyer Vladimir Gajic, means by the profession of a lawyer, who said a few days ago that he should not go to the vote, that the citizens should not go to the referendum on 16 January and that they must vote against the constitution. Citizens must not allow the party's rule of law to be cemented. We want a division of power, an independent court in the D.A.'s office. Imagine Vladimir Gajic, a lawyer by profession, tells us that citizens must not allow party authority over the judiciary to be cemented, and constitutional amendments concern that we should remove the choice of judges in DVT and VSS. A man doesn't know anything. The man says we want the division of power, and he sits in a party with people who wanted to fully cancel the division in 2009 and bring the judiciary under legislative and executive authority. You have Janko Veseinovic, the same party mate, a man sitting outside the National Assembly, wants to block the entrance to the Belgrade City Assembly. The man says -- don't go to the referendum because no one in the extraparliamentary opposition invited us to talk about it, and we, in the organisation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, organised a debate here in the Small Hall of the National Assembly and invited all representatives of the extraparliamentary opposition and talked to them. Bio Mr. Radulović, Biljic, Seselj, we exchanged attitudes. Imagine that magnitude of ignorance and intricacies. You have a representative of Freedom and Justice, Dragan Gilas, who talks about how this is not good, how we should not go out on a referendum, how we directly influence judicial authority. We directly influence and move the elections out of here, and no one said that this referendum law was supposed to be done by 2008, to customize it. No one said they carried out a criminal reform of the judiciary. No one said that their 2006 referendum law said the decision would be passed by most of the voters. We extended their deadline so that they could submit the people's initiative, and what's wrong now? They also had the opportunity to sit here and discuss with us the future Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, but those people decided to boycott the elections because they knew they wouldn't support even 3% of the citizens. And they need to talk to us about justice? You're the same ones who sat on Crown Street. In the previous few sessions, I asked who was sitting on Crown Street two nights before the election and scribbled the judges' lists? Here, I'll tell you, Nata Mesarevic, Dejan Ciric and Bosko Ristic, then a lawyer. I'll tell you two more names at the next session. Here, Mr. Phila, the lawyer's story, they never gave their representative, the bar never gave a representative for VSS and DVT. How come the lawyer didn't side with the judges and prosecutors who stayed on the street? Well, their chosen colleagues didn't side with unselected judges. What should we talk about? What kind of justice? And today they honor us because we want to imitate the judiciary with European legislation, which is our obligation as someone on their way to the EU. We want to imitate our legislation, but we don't want to be a flow water heater. We don't want to be a flow water heater on any VSS proposal. No one will have the opportunity to bring here a list of judges from the president of the courts and that's what we choose by automation. We're not going to do that because we said in 2012 that we wanted to differ from the representatives of the former regime. We have the right to challenge. Whether it will be called subjective or objective reasons, whether these reasons will be called security, but we have the right as MPs who are given sovereignty by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to challenge any candidate. Because we want the best to work in the judiciary, to give the best justice, and in this way the citizens have confidence in the judiciary and our legal order. In the day to vote, the Electoral Group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children" will certainly vote for all three decisions, because we want to allow the smooth work of all judicial authorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, believing that an independent, objective and impartial judiciary will lead to Serbian citizens having greater confidence in both the judiciary and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10622	I thank the authorised representative of the Parliament Group „Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children”. Since there are no more registered presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has a national emissary, Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10623	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Representatives of the VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are before us today three very important decisions, a proposal that actually concerns the work of the judiciary and the prosecution as very important branches in the very functioning of the state apparatus, but specifically in relation to citizens, because it is actually about functions that perhaps citizens most often come to the opportunity to meet precisely in situations when it comes to deciding for them very important problems, life issues, etc. So, one proposal for a decision concerns the termination of the public prosecutor's office, and that's more, as we hear, the procedural nature. On the other hand, the motion for a decision from the choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. We have several times actually had opportunities in this House's assembly to discuss and discuss the very issue of the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. Although we are being announced changes in this sector or in the sphere of justice, especially through the change of the Constitution and the referendum ahead, this may be one of the last opportunities to actually directly debate the choice of judges in this way. We have repeatedly pointed out that actually in some ways MPs rely on the remarks and proposals of the VSS itself, because MPs, apart from the official biography, are normal, which they get, or possibly when it comes to candidates of the direct city from which we come, so we may be more familiar, we have relied more on what the proposals and suggestions of the VSS were, certainly with the right of certain candidates to dispute. What I would particularly like to mention is the fact that you, as well as we as MPs, have heard several times these very important qualifications and actually the specifics that should be delegated to someone to such an important function, which are skills, expertise and dignity. In fact, these are three essential characteristics that are of crucial importance and in some way the certainty that a particular candidate will be responsible for performing his post before him. For the first time, a judge who is elected to a judicial office should certainly have the fact that his professional work and his dignity regarding moral qualities, in terms of trying to challenge, the responsibility that is actually given to him in confidence, that he strives in the best possible way, because the independence of the judiciary and the prosecution, as I said earlier, is somewhat indicative of the democratic capacity of a particular country, i.e. the state in which the citizens live. This will be very easy through any research, so what is the view and opinion of the public opinion on the independence and efficiency of the work of both the judiciary and the prosecution. What we will certainly have a chance to say is the candidates proposed for the election of the President of the Court, including in Novi Pazar. So, the city I come from. Certainly, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support this proposal in the voting day. The President of the General Court in Novi Pazar, the General Function of the President of the Court, is an even more responsible function than the judge's task. For what? Well, because the President of the Court should be the first person to be among the equal, but first in all respects, in terms of professional, moral and other qualities and to actually be the strength, engine and driver and indicator of other colleagues, especially those who may be young in this branch, with less working and professional experience, to simply show how and how to lead this very important institution. What I would still like to look back on at this occasion is the issue of national representation, especially in the national mixed environments. It is evident that for many years we have this problem that especially in state institutions, public authorities, in some specific, I say, services that are very sensitive, where national belongingness and structure with regard to trust in specific state bodies are even more burdensome if it is national mixed environments, such as the police issue, such as the judiciary and the prosecution. On this occasion, I just want to remind the public that respecting the national structure in such environments is a constitutional and legislative or legal obligation and that in society it should not create an atmosphere and the feeling that, if some of this national structure is respected, it is actually a right that is specifically or exclusively given to someone. It's actually just constitutional and legal law and it needs to be respected. The fact is that in recent years there has been a shift, but specifically in the territory of the cities and municipalities of the Sandzak area, we have not yet reached that desired limit, or the limit that simple structure in these bodies, i.e. institutions, corresponds to the national structure. In this direction, we need to take account of some of the decisions that are yet to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10624	Thank you. The time foreseen for the parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10625	These may be the last moments when the Assembly will elect judges and prosecutors, at least in their first choice, i.e. Deputy Prosecutors. This is about what a request from Brussels, from the European Union that we had to meet. The story of an independent judiciary, as well as the story of independent media, as well as the story of NGOs, over the past 30 years, the rampage of the political west at the head of the EU has led to the fact that neither of these ideas nor any one believes in it. So independent media is never independent. They are of their people and people in whom they work, but they are dependent on various things of domesticity, which are foreign centers of power. NGOs are NGOs in relation to the domestic state, but they are usually organisations of foreign governments. The independent judiciary is also an idea that we are being pushed through to make the judiciary independent of its people, depending on the US Embassy in Serbia. So we've come to a situation where the Venice Commission, demanding changes in our constitution, comes from a position that needs to be prevented from affecting the choice of judges and that's where they're right. When the wrong electoral and party model leads to the fact that this Assembly looks more like the SNS Congress, then the control of the courts by the Assembly is not control by the Assembly, as the highest legislative body and bodies that inherit the greatest sovereignty of this people, it is the control of the SNS over the judiciary. There they are right, however, what they offer us against partytocracy is a more sudocrat, the idea of judges and judges choosing themselves. And if Monteskje stood up today and saw what his idea of dividing power into judicial, legislative and executive and how demoted it is by the destruction of democracy by the political West, he himself would advocate the ideas of Jean Jacques Russo on national sovereignty, on direct democracy, that all authorities must be subordinated to the people and controlled by the people. So one of his ideas was also a referendum, as a form of direct democracy. If we want to avoid the partytocracy that we now have and which, ultimately, in the overthrow of the arm between the partytocrat of the SNS and the juddocracy that the West is offering us, we get through these amendments to the Constitution, through the control of several people from parliament in the bodies that will elect judges, if we want to avoid that partytocratism, and we don't want to end it all in sudocracy, we simply need to introduce what is known as an idea in some countries, which is that people at the referendum confirm the judges' elections. And then we would put things back in the hands of the people and then the courts couldn't become the wild tissue that works only in the interest of its professional clubs, which it works within some foreign or domestic power centers. When a referendum is mentioned, we will discuss the referendum law soon. It's perfectly normal that we had to get out of a situation where without a 50-percent voter and a few percent voter on a referendum we couldn't confirm anything this society needs, but it's not normal for ten people to go out tomorrow and if six of them vote to come into a position to pass that referendum. So, the idea of having some of my opposition colleagues resent you making this referendum law because you would change the preamble of the Constitution on Kosovo or allow "Rio Tintu" to go through Serbia in every way and I will not support it and I want to believe that it is not because of it. But I would like to remind you that it would still be necessary to keep the limit, some limit of at least 40% I went to the referendum in order, especially in the situation in which Rio Tinto had the greatest legitimacy of this referendum, so that tomorrow someone would not point to the fact that this authority, in respect of some former authorities, came out in the face of foreign corporations to the harm of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10626	I assume the authorised representative of the parliamentary group wants the right to replication. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10627	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Glisic, I believe that you do not serve demagogy as other representatives of opposition parties are, as is primarily Mr Vladimir Gajic of the People's Party, who is talking about not having to go to the referendum because this referendum will lead to the cementing of party authority, and we are actually doing quite the opposite. I'm listening to your presentations and my ears are sore that you say that judges are elected directly by the people. And where's that? You have, for example, in France that President McCron chooses judges directly. Imagine what would happen about the Republic of Serbia in 2021 if Aleksandar Vukic directly chose judges. So you don't use honorable and good intentions because you probably didn't read any documents relating to the change of the Constitution. We started this process a year ago. And then I wonder what good intentions you have tomorrow as a National MP to present to the citizens of Serbia what you as a National MP are doing here in the National Assembly. We are working to transfer the full choice to the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors, and thus to show that we do not want to influence the Serbian judiciary, as we have not done until 2012, unlike the representatives of the former tycoon regime, who, because of their political and personal interests, chose judges to provide them with the apportionment. Then why don't you say we're doing the right thing here, but you're using the same demagogue and deception as your colleagues from the opposition parties? This Law on the People's Initiative, and you are also a People's Messenger, and we haven't even discussed it here, whether we're going to adopt it in the original form, whether it's going to be an amendment, we don't know it yet, and you know it well. But with nothing, we won't touch any of the things in the preamble to Kosovo, you have a statement by Minister Maja Popovic. I think it's a sufficient guarantee, unlike former Minister Snezana Malovic, who promised nothing, so she implemented the most generous judicial reform and 1,500 people remained on the street. (President: Time. Another sentence. The president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic said we would decide on the "Rio Tinta" issue at the referendum. This will be decided by the citizens of Serbia and will be decided by the citizens of Serbia, both on the judiciary and on "Rio Tint", but we want to give the opportunity to decide Serbia's citizens rather than act like the former Democratic Party, which sent people to the streets because they did not respond then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10628	Right on line, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10629	Our political system has turned out to be presidential in many segments, regardless of what it shouldn't be. The fact that McCron chooses judges in France, they may be able to afford themselves, although France is no longer a good form of democracy or anything. After all, I'm going to say something that I don't need as an opposition MP, it will seem to support you, but I want to remind you that how French police deal with their protesters is something that, thank God, we don't look in the streets of Belgrade anymore. I don't know why you think the French model is good. I know it's not. We here have too much authority in the hands of a man, although it is not under the Constitution, and it will be good if he has the courage not to run for president of Serbia, but to return to the prime minister level, because it is then fully in line with the Constitution to be the strongest man in the country. What you say doesn't exist anywhere exists. There is a choice of judges and various bodies in many American states, the United States. Of course, it's not at the level of the whole state, but here, too, a referendum should work on the level of basic courts, where people know these judges and where they know how they behave, how they live, who they associate with, whether they meet them with criminals or with politicians. So, apart from the fact that the waist has to give its word, they should give citizens, at least at the level of basic courts, and perhaps at a higher level. And then, in that case, the parties, and even such a powerful party as SNS is 700 or 400 or perhaps 900 thousand members in the meantime, will not be able to influence more than they really do through their presence in the people. I don't have a problem with that either. If you are really present in the people and you are getting votes from the people, which cannot be challenged to a large extent, then you should influence it, and your ideology, even though I disagree with it. But we cannot let the judiciary get out of hand and have some informal groups influence it, or influence it through party authorities. In that sense, I never refer to great solutions from the previous regime. I was an opposition like you, although some in your ranks weren't opposition, they were part of the government, and I think it's high time you cleaned up your ranks on that matter, so that what you're trying to do right now, which is to keep some kind of sovereignty in your hand with Brussels, you could still do it the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10630	Thank you. This closes the circle of replicas and continues on the basis of the registered speakers. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10631	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Justice, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens, I will simply point out through this discussion three examples of absolute justice, as regards judges, prosecutors, and I hope that the prosecutors we elect today and the judges we elect and the representatives of the judiciary, and all those judges and lawyers who watch this, will learn some lessons. Because we'll hear some new information. It's simple, I'm going to point our judiciary to certain cases, the first case that seems to deserve to be investigated by the prosecution and the police, and then, of course, if that happens, the court's case. So it's about the control body, once. Oversight bodies are independent, they deal primarily with legal affairs. However, no supervisory authority, nor any of their officers, is above the state and is outside the jurisdiction of the police, the prosecution and the courts. And finally, to mention, since it is a particular supervisory body, that I am a confidant, Marinovic is a lawyer, that a certified lecturer at the Judiciary Academy for Judges and Legal Experts and that he was the president of the Criminal Court in Belgrade. So, the case I'm going to talk about, there are elements of abuse of official position, indications of trade influence and certainly conflict of interest, and there may also be bribery or possible corruption. So, as the supervisory bodies and the regulatory bodies function, they've been witnessing an affair that's been going on for days, a scandal, when the service of the trustee is without foundation, by chance, under the name of the alleged, supervised, careful, you won't believe it, but everything is true, the site of a winery, otherwise an impeccable company, where, by chance, Danilo Vukic, the son of the president of the state, works again. And otherwise, to remind myself that Danilo Vukic has been a victim of persecution and dehumanisation for years, as well as other members of the family of President Vukic. He's testifying to the scandal next. One of the faces that went into control in the winery, which is possible to control, watch out, the site, have gone three people, and in such control can go one person and do control in five minutes, which usually happens, but it doesn't take three people, they won't carry sacks, there's no job for three faces. But there went one of the faces that went there, so-called. A fake inspector named Emina Kovacevic, her name stands neatly on the website of the trustees. Who's that person? Otherwise, there, on the spot, she was met by media representatives, who have the right to receive information, publicly, who are in the jurisdiction of this service in which she works. She refused to introduce herself, ran away from media representatives and refused to provide them with any information, contrary to her service she was working in. She works in the trustee's office, right in that department, as senior advisor in the surveillance sector, in the data protection control department. However, there is also public data that the mentioned Emina Kovacevic was a member of both the DS and the Social Democratic Party, Boris Tadic. And Inspector Emina, under the authority of the inspector, has been claiming that politics has not been involved for eight years. However, in 2014, she, seven years ago, was on the Belgrade city list just now Boris Tadic, and in 2016 she was a candidate in 170th place of Boris Tadic's list. Then how does he not deal with politics? And he works for the trustee. But you're probably getting some red lights on, and now listen to this. Rada Kovacevic, mother of Emine Kovacevic, also works in the office of the Commissioner for Public Information and she is the fourth official in the office, except for the trustee, his deputy, has two advisers, one of whom is Emine's mother who went into random control, Rada Kovacevic. By the way, Rada Kovacevic is like Emina herself, an old member of the Democratic Party, the SDS and all these yellow parties. Is today a member of some of these decomposed, it's hard to determine. Mrs Kovacevic herself, otherwise she turned 65 and has a condition to retire. I think the goal is to hire young people and create new jobs. So, otherwise, Mrs. Kovacevic herself worked in the government, she was an important DS official, she worked in the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic in the Staff Management Service as assistant director at the Department of Legal, Financial and General Affairs, and sounds amazing, she was also the chairman of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Board of Appeals. Even more amazing sounds the following fact, because, you know, Commissioner Marinovic himself was elected to the post in his previous term. He claims he didn't know about all this, that it went there by accident. However, it is not so accidental to testify that on March 15th of this year, Commissioner Marinovic promoted this particular Mrs Kovacevic to his advisor. So he knows very well what mother and daughter are doing. Isn't it a conflict of interest that members of a family work in an independent and should be a professional and independent supervisory and regulatory body. Isn't that a conflict of interest? I think it is a conflict of interest. You know what the evidence is about. This is evidence, otherwise in the service of the trustee, currently working with the trustee of 100 people, I guarantee you that at least 50 percent of the employees of the supervisory one body are former, present members or family members, people who were members of the Gilasov or yellow parties. So how do we expect this supervisory body to do its job professionally and impartially and without abuse of office? So in all supervisory bodies, it's obvious, not only in this need of persuasion and depolitisation. Here, I'll point. Prime Minister Brnabic said on November 13th that the trustee has misused his post. Otherwise, the work of the Commissioner is regulated by even two laws – the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. The law mentioned first says that the National Assembly elects the Trustee by majority on a proposal from the Committee of the National Assembly. So, as she chooses him, she can change him. Thus, the trustee may be relieved of his duties, and I quote: “If he does his job indiscriminately and unwittingly. ” Otherwise, the procedure for the resolution of the Commissioners is being initiated by one-third of the MPs. The Commissioner himself is, and it is also a violation of the law, therefore, by bringing to the media, even on his website the data on the company which was subject to supervision by the Commissioner violated Article 76. The law on the protection of personality data, which says nicely, I'll quote it, so you'll see it really broke. Thus, article 76 says: “The obligation to keep a professional secret – the trustee, the trustee’s deputy, and the trustee’s staff are obliged to keep as a professional secret all the information they have come to do their job. ” That must be true, at least for the duration of the procedure. Let's say, at this mentioned company, in the wine shop where Danilo Vukic worked. However, in his statement and media performance on November 12th, the Commissioner presented information that his service has come up with in the performance of its functions, i.e. by providing data on the results and the surveillance of the subject-matter. It was still an open object, so the Commissioner, I have proven, violated this member of the law. Otherwise, the trustee's budget makes up people's money. It's people's money. In this case, we see that the Service of the Trustees, except that it abuses the position of abuse and people's resources, resources to persecute, say, Danil Vukic. Otherwise, I have proved in an earlier text that the probability that the trustee's service is accidentally controlled by one of the five million websites, which is their subject of control, since they carry out 500 controls annually, is data for 2018 and 2019. So that probability is 15,000. So it's about the amazing thing that happens by accident. So that's usually a percentage of 0.002% probability of carrying out one such control by accident. Well, if it's not an accident, then it's intentional. Otherwise, the Commissioner is obliged to perform these site controls, which is not his first-rate job, on sites where there is a high or critical risk. This company, i.e. this site, has an impeccable reputation, which is control of the site's trustee and has shown. He wasn't supposed to control that website at all. So if it's not an accident, then it's on purpose, I'll tell you what probably happened. Since all this started in March of this year, early in the year some influential jilasovac gave a warrant, along with the likely financial stimulation of a certain sympathiser, a member of the Trustee's service, to include in the 2021 surveillance plan the company in which Danilo Vukic works. The person mentioned in the Commissioner's service then, abusing the official position and trading in influence, included a surveillance plan for the 2021 company, which is its website in which Danilo Vukic works. Then the person, as he was probably asked to, tipped the employer and the briber about the day he was scheduled for post surveillance. To make the show bigger, because there was a show prepared for the Jilasov media, on the spot, it was for that very reason that three officers went there who had nothing to do but run away, obviously, and from journalists. Fortunately, someone tipped off the editor-in-chief of the "Informer" list, and then there, representatives, these three, the entire army of controllers and inspectors who are to control one site were welcomed by journalists "Pinka" and "Informer" and jumped them, asked for basic data – what they are looking for, as they are called. Then they ran away, gave the wind the heel. Then the whole plan fell apart. The plan was that when this blow is carried out, this control of a terrible site of a winery, make sure that the Jilassian media then spin the whole case, to show that in the winery there is anyone who knows what, the bahanalia, as Danilo Vukic, probably, the owner of the winery, is hidden. Similarly, pull the parallel with that spin and lies, that Andrej Vukic owned the "France" restaurant, which was, of course, long since been denied. But it's about the same lies. Now, all of this was broken up by the press on the spot, so the whole spin and the whole lie was ruined. This case, I'll also remind you of this work, is very much a reminder of the book of the famous France Kafka "Process". Look, it's about Joseph Ka, a man who's a suspect by unconfirmed authority, arrested, charged, and who doesn't know the nature of Joseph Ka's crime at all, or in the whole book, or has ever been discovered by readers. That's how we have the Daniel V case that has been haunted for years by the media and the Jilassov party, and no one knows the nature of his alleged misdemeanor. The persecution process has now been joined by officials working in the state, though independent, body. Then the trustee's service turns out to be a one-wine-control service, and that's the site of that winery, the very one where the president's son works. Now, what could be the epilogue of this? Therefore, it may be eaten by the Commissioner's wolf, i.e. it is possible that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, in accordance with their responsibilities, will initiate inspection supervision over the work of the Commissioner. In the event of this scandal, it is also possible that a third of the MPs will initiate a procedure to resolve the Commissioners, and it is possible that the wolf will eat the donkey and no one will eat anything. Now, the second case is much more important than this. One of the objectives of the judiciary is also to protect the state and the state in general under the law. Our judges and prosecutors, I must say this carefully, I have been following it for years and this topic, practically never speak of false accusations against the state of Serbia and the Serbian people for alleged genocide in Srebrenica. It turns out that for Serbia, in terms of decades of false genocide charges, they have done more, and have, members of the Independent International Commission for Srebrenica, the Graif Commission, so all parties except one of our professors, have done their report on 1,200 sides, and have done more to the president of the judicial council that tried Mladic, Judge Niambe, in his separate opinion on 45 sides, so they have done more than all Serbian judges, prosecutors and doctors of legal science together. It's a kind of message to our justice and legal science. It is important that the state, judges, prosecutors and prominent lawyers oppose the stamping of Serbia and the Serb people as genocide. These days, and I'm saying this because of this, we're having a hard attempt to destabilise the state during the destabilising and all the gatherings and all the scandals that are in place, they're going on, during the mural destabilising of General Ratko Mladic. That mural and General Mladic himself are best told by this very report by the Graif's commission on Srebrenica, Judge Prisca Matinba Niamnba's opinion. Both documents are key evidence of the absence of genocide in Srebrenica. Simple, mural, Ratko Mladić has been standing on His street for a year now. Then what's the hysteria about the mural? As soon as the scandal took place a week ago, the U.S. Embassy made a statement, maybe that's the answer. The embassy said -- Ratko Mladic should not be the face Belgrade shows the world. We heard a message. Okay. But Ratko Mladic's guilt and innocence are best told by this report and an isolated opinion. I'll remind you. Otherwise, the report is on 1,200 pages, which is a scientific report, saying there were no genocides in Srebrenica, and the isolated opinion of Judge Niambe, practically frees Mladic from most of the guilt, or eight out of nine counts. I'll remind you briefly. Professor Gideon Graif, Israeli historian and president of this Independent Commission on Srebrenica. On June 15, the account said: “I am Jewish and know what genocide means. I belong to an old people over whom genocide was committed, the greatest genocide in mankind's history. I don't need anyone to explain to me what genocide is. These events are not genocide in any way. “ We proved it, so the commission, is not our opinion. We proved it. It wasn't genocide, it can't be called genocide. If anyone uses that term, they should delete it from history. Graif further says: “This is important because the charges of genocide committed are very serious, because the decision to commit genocide is a serious crime, and in this case there is no crime. “ In our commission, according to Graif, we had experts in counting and calculating the victims and established that number. That number should be recorded in history, no less. Every death is a terrible tragedy, we're aware of that, but the number of victims is also important. So, we as a commission have given a framework of definition. It's not genocide, and I'm going to repeat it a hundred thousand times, no genocide has been committed, and, says Graif, the number of victims in Srebrenica was 3,700 and something, approximately. According to Graif, Serbs have never had a plan for genocide in Srebrenica or anywhere else. On the contrary, when you look at it, says Graif, the independent state of Croatia, fascist and Nazi, there was a plan for a third of Serbs to be killed, a third expelled, and a third baptized, i.e. to change their faith. So the genocide was committed by the Croatian Ustashas and must never be forgotten. Prisca Matimba, otherwise the Zambian lawyer of the impeccable reputation, the Supreme Court of Zambia and the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Courts, and in no way was connected with Serbia, nor with the Republika Srpska, chaired by Ratko Mladic's trial, and eventually, when giving the second-degree verdict on 8 June this year, she set out an opinion on the 45-page part of the verdict, which she simply stressed, and this is important to hear, that she be asked, the entire trial against Mladic would have to be repeated and respected eight of the nine points of the Mladic defence complaint, and the isolated opinion of Judge Niambe is part of, of course, the whole of this verdict. The most important explanation is her in connection with point 5 dealing with qualifications in connection with the Srebrenica crime. Judge Niambe does not question that crimes against Bosnian Muslims took place in the vicinity of Srebrenica, but he openly examines whether it was genocide and whether the crime had ever been designed and ordered by Mladic. She says – given the nature and severity of the legal mistakes observed in this case, unlike other members of the appeal council, I would order General Mladic to be retriald before the second first-degree court by all counts, except for six charges of taking hostages in a joint criminal enterprise. So I'm going to point out and this is important to hear, given all this I've said, the mural to General Mladic, the answer is undoubtedly undeniable. General Mladic deserves much more. The third case, it is a coup against the state and President Vukic and in this joint criminal enterprise, a coup against the state of President Vukic and his family were involved by foreign services, individuals from the police, unfortunately, it seems a few individuals from both the SNS and the Gilasov party and the media. These days, that is, just yesterday German media “Dece Vele” and “Wise” magasi, through the text of German author Michael Knot, “Wise” said in the research text that these are forensic research in Germany, hemp from “Jovanjica” is too weak to be drugs. Magazine says -- he had insight into the results of an official laboratory and forensic analysis carried out in Germany, which shows that hemp was grown on the land of "Jovanja" has a share of the psychoactive substance THC of only 0.54%. That is, of course, above the 0.3% allowed in Serbia. However, the magazine says and say forensic analyses, it is nowhere near a drug that can be sold. Here, I'll give you the information, I checked it out, and that in the magazine is, say, THC level for industrial hemp is 1%. So it's three times bigger than the one in Serbia and it's twice the size of THC in the hemp of the "Jovanja" land. Otherwise, the magazine says - laboratory analyses were done in Germany by order of investigation and dated on 16 December 2019, and this proves practically that Koluvija had an accident that his hemp seedlings had a slightly more active substance than should have been and that he had an accident to be sacrificed by the organizer of the coup against the state. Here's what else they say: "Dairy Great" and "Wise". I quote - One of the employees at the German Embassy in Belgrade, who asked to remain anonymous, told the phone about "Wise" that in Serbia, despite strict drug laws, it was unusual for someone to spend two years ago in custody and that he was making cannabis, i.e. bred hemp with 0.54% THC. He says the German source from the embassy that there have been other cases in Serbia that have not been prosecuted at all because of the increase in THC in industrial hemp, they say "Wise" and "Dajce Vel". I'm bringing the end. So, the "Jovanjica" affair, above all, had the goal of involving Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and his family in something they had nothing to do with. It's an artificial affair. SNS Vice-President Milenko Jovanovic, the esteemed MP, said here yesterday that the "Jovanjica" affair was created as an attack on President Aleksandr Vukic and said this is obviously very serious evidence in the context of the whole "Jovanjica" affair being wrong, that this has nothing to do with how it was presented in public. Now that the Germans have announced it, and not one of our own, the question is, what are they going to do now, all those who have been generating this affair? It says Jovanovic - I will remind you that some politicians, but also some tycoon media and some police people, participated in the factory of this affair. Now the question arises to see who did it, what was the motive and what was the goal. Apparently, the motive was to connect President Vukic and his family to this affair and the aim was to attack the President of the Republic, said the esteemed Mr. Jovanovic. This discovery, this is the last sentence, the German media is proof of how monstrous the lies of Gilas, Marinika, Aleksic and their media were in connection with the "Jovanjica" affair. Justice is a dispute, but it's reaching. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10632	The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10633	Thank you. Today, the presidents of the basic courts in Krusevec, Majdanpek, Novi Pazar, the Lazarevec Criminal Court, are elected for the first time for the judge's office to be elected Judge of the Criminal Court in Presevo, and the resignation of the Attorney General's Attorney General in Kursumli is determined for his retirement. All of these are formal, legal reasons that I can speak solely on the basis of reports received by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Council of Prosecutors. Both courts and prosecutors are state authorities acting in public, not in private interest. The basic role of the courts is in applying the law so as not to remain a dead letter on paper, but in the division of their role is also a certain control of the executive and legislative authorities by allowing the Constitutional Court to abolish the laws and other acts that are unconstitutional. The court is independent and independent in its work, but independence must not mean irresponsibility. The rules under which the prosecutor is acting are clearly defined by law and there is no place for improvisation. The prosecutor does not judge, but determines the facts, manages the investigation process and is very important at this stage operational co-operation with the MUP, which must be effective, as this depends on the whole investigation process. We lawyers often like to quote Monteskje, so he talked about the concept of division of power whose goal is to prevent tyranny and preserve individual freedom by keeping one branch of government in check. Every democratically arranged society does not mean the will of the individual given the freedom of choice, because that freedom is just limited by the obligations and responsibilities needed to make the community function, and that is the essence of the definition of the rule of law that so much is spoken of in the public. It's the judge's law that guarantees the judge's independence. Under the law, the judge is independent in the conduct and decision-making of decisions and judges and judges exclusively based on the Constitution and the law. The judge must not be a political person, nor should the judges be spoken of as political candidates, because their role is to conduct a trial, respecting the procedural rights of the parties and ensuring justice of the trial. The judge is obliged to maintain confidence in his independence and impartiality, building his professional integrity and authority. The efficiency of courts in many cases has also been marred by too many cases where courts are overcrowded. What needs to be done is certainly a mechanism for speeding up the length of court proceedings and for the even distribution of cases to all courts in Serbia. Soon we will also have a debate on the proposal to change the Constitution in the work of the judiciary, for which the Venice Commission has given the green light. In fact, the essence is not only in harmonising laws with European standards, in order to meet the form, but it is in that, using examples of good practice in the EU, we work together to strengthen all institutions in the country, thus creating a strong, stable and serious state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10634	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10635	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at the very beginning of my presentation, I consider it my duty to congratulate Mr. Rank Maksimovic on the first item of the agenda, i.e. the termination of the post of Attorney General in Kursumlia, on his retirement. As for the second and third points of the agenda, namely the election of judges and presidents, this is already who knows which session of the National Assembly is dedicated to these topics. In fact, more than 200 judges have taken on judicial duty over the past year, which means that there has been a significant decrease in the human resources deficit, which was indisputable, but still exists in our judiciary. When I was preparing for one of the mid-sessions at which I spoke on the subject of the judge's election, I found that our judiciary was missing about 400 judges. I'm pretty sure that's one of the reasons, the lack of efficiency of the trial. And the new judges will, undisputedly, by their own participation in the work and taking over of the case, contribute to faster court proceedings, and I know that the length of proceedings is one of the basic objections that citizens point out to the work of the courts. But I also know that sometimes, rarely, but the opposition to the dignity deficit, the courage deficit, the deficit of expertise in the Serbian judiciary. It is rare, but we are all aware that such problems exist, and we will only solve them if, as long as it is in our jurisdiction, at the place of the judge and as the president of the courts we choose people who are actually up to those functions with both the moral and the professional absecction, because only one who is better than the others can judge. The state of Serbia and its citizens deserve much more from the average judges who will waste cases in exchange for wages and permanent employment. I always use mild words, but that does not mean that I have no strong arguments and an even stronger desire for Serbia to be a legal state, an honorary state and an honest people, in which the law is a path to punishment, not a path to a comfortable life, in which one who knows is valued, not one who knows someone. Happiness isn't the same for everyone, but the state has to be. It must give everyone a chance to school, to get a decent job, and most importantly, to live honestly from their work. As a socialist, I want Serbia to be the best chance country, which is provided to the best, and not, as it sometimes seems, to best pass those worst, while the best go to be the best somewhere else. That is why we must all fight together for social justice, which promotes real values and supports the right people. I know this is difficult to achieve, but I, from this place, as a People's MP, must not be difficult to point out what the system of values in our country should be. Especially when it comes to justice, I'm angry that I've been listening my whole life, how it used to be better, how our judiciary was once respected, how the judge used to be a gentleman. Well, why isn't it anymore and why shouldn't it be again? I think it would be if each holder of a judicial function would be aware of the importance of his work and the height of his position, if at all times he had in mind his obligation to know the law well, his blind and consistent application, but the obligations of a upright and dignified walk. I know there are judges who see their jobs as a nice business with fine working hours, but I also know that there are judges who see their call as an opportunity to trade in justice. Those are exceptions, but I don't want them to be the mirror of our judiciary. Therefore, support for the election should be given to those candidates, who are highly moral, honorable and enthusiastic, who have motive to improve the Serbian judiciary. I hope the VSS has put together a motion to elect the judges and president of the courts just because of such qualities. On the other hand, it is essential that all of us as a society be aware of the importance of a judicial call and of the weight of the burden of sharing justice and that we have respect for those who have ventured to take the burden. Here, we are now changing the Constitution to have the judiciary according to European standards. Well, by the same standards, we should also determine the salaries of judges and prosecutors. Well, here, you said it wasn't so popular anymore, so just because wages are insufficiently adequate responsibilities that judges have, and they have a responsibility to judge as the law says, equally, and within a reasonable time. The Socialist Party of Serbia is seeking to build a social justice society where there will be an effective mechanism for correcting social injustices, and the mechanism is the judiciary. So I appeal to the presidents of the courts who are elected to be a firm defense of every attempt and any kind of unlawful influence on the court, not to be part of the channel that these influences are being carried out. Judges must be the voice of the law and the voice of the profession, which, with integrity, will objectively and impartially look at the facts and make decisions that will protect our legal order, making Serbia a country where all those who do not respect it by violating its legislation know that at that time they will come before an honorable, professional, independent and impartial judge. We socialists expect such qualities from the judge, and we urge them to cultivate them throughout their working lives, because without them there is no successful functioning of the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10636	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10637	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I, as well as my colleagues and colleagues, will vote in favour of the election of both the President of the Court and those elected for the first time as judges, because they meet the criteria and criteria for the assessment of the choice of judges both of the skills and of the training, and of the fellow Members of the Court's dignity. Is this third feature, let's put it this way, the virtue of the judge, indeed, whether all judges or most of them are dignified, that's under question. This is what previous colleagues today have tried to say in the context of all these changes that occur in post-socialist societies. We've lost the authority of the judge, that's true, in the last 20 years, but we've lost the authority of the teacher, the authority of the Pope, the authority of the president of the municipality. So, in global society, when we move on to globalisation, it seems to me that we haven't stuck to some basic civilizational flows that the previous generations have not only been in the last 200, 300 years, but also to say so, and for hundreds of years we've inherited, and we haven't accepted further development. This primarily refers to education. We've been expelled from the education system for 23 years, and we can't expect the young judge to have dignity now. Please. That's the point of the problem. We can't expect the priest we once had, the dignified one, we can't expect the president of the municipality, so there's the essence, but we'll support these changes, and they certainly contribute to the further development and promotion of society in general. What is very important is that we look at our weaknesses in development, correct them in the future in order to achieve the best results and in the area of the judiciary. Like I said, they meet all the criteria. But we've been going a little over the last 10 years. In the last 10, 12 years have most judges really met the basic criteria, expertise, training, and dignity? I'll give some examples where I'll say they're not. Why? The former regime party did not adhere to the criteria and criteria, but rather the choice of judges was conducted exclusively by party membership, the Democratic Party. We've been considering it here in the past term with certain judges, not to quote them now. So it was their belonging, not even their expertise. We had judges who had been elected without even having high professional equipment. And it's not weird, either, because there was a judge and assistant minister who had completed the midterm, and he was an assistant minister of justice. It's nowhere in Europe. So they totally destroyed our judiciary without talking about 832 judges and 200 prosecutors who brought it overnight, and that makes it more difficult to further improve judicial function and justice in general. You know, ma'am, since you probably remember, some judges have been dying of injustice in this country. So they died of injustice, and some committed suicide. According to my list, six judges have so far been executed between 2000 and 2012. In the election, the judges did something that the history of the judiciary did not know in the former regime. What's this about? They chose a dead judge as judge, Ljubisa Ristic of Požega. Can you believe that, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia? President VSS, then, Nata Mesarevic said she talked to all the candidates and, I just don't know how she could talk to the dead judge and spend 240 hours talking. You know how much that is? Well, more than a month. The same one, Nata Mesarovic, chose Sonja Brkic as a judge who violated the Law on Judges, because at the same time, believe it or not, she served as Judge of the Supreme Court and President of the RIK, although the Law on Judges specifically prohibited it. The RIK then took 2,673,000 dinars. Of course she refused to pay back that money because it was all about the funds, not about the expertise, dignity and training of those basic characteristics that judges should have. I will just say that the European Commission's 2010 report said - reforms conducted by the former government in Serbia are a special concern. Do you know where I got this sentence from, the respected representatives of the VSS? From the book "Court Reform in Serbia from 2008 to 2012". You know what else he says? Not to be too hard on you, but to quote this. I quote: "Reforms carried out by the government are the worst possible thing," the quote concluded. It is not only in that book, but even Belgrade's "Politics" published on July 7th 2012. Let's not torture you too much, we're going to reform. Is there gonna be a problem? It will be. We'll try, we'll work, we'll correct the mistakes that appear. What I now want to say, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia and honourable MPs, continues daily, from an hour to an hour of Satanization by the President of the Republic, his family, his parents. Now the father and mother are back on the agenda. The latest, November 15th, since two days ago, so this year, Sergei Trifunovic, an actor, attacked the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and his mother for mentioning the president of the Republic of Acifa-efendi, whom the domestic court convicted of crimes for killing thousands of Serbs. Trifunovic, believe it or not, stepped in to defend the Acifa-Efendi, and told the president, quote: "Yes. You, mother of Achif Efendi, are not the president of the Achif Efendi, but me. I'm going to start this poor guy's healing fund cold," Trifunovic wrote. Did any NGOs react to this? Of course not. Did one journalist from any association react? Of course not. You see, that's how double arches work. If it had happened to anyone else, it would have been on the cover of opposition papers, under the control of Gilas. In this way, actor and politician Sergey Trifunovic promotes the primitive and rudeness that also represents his counterpart Dragan Djilas and his political, electric rabbit, Marinika Tepic. This isn't the first time he's told for no reason that the fund, for God's sake, will start. He's done it before. Just to remind you, respected citizens, Trifunovic invested money in sick children, who collected SMS messages in the Slovenian investment fund "Ilirika", which the agency itself admitted. Out of 15.5 million dinars, armed for 12 months, and then that investment fund paid back 10 million by transaction. Where's the other 5.5? Eat the cat, you'd say, evaporate. So did Gilas, and Tadic, and Sergei Trifunovic in the people known Sergei "pishoi". Why “pisces ”? Because he said he was going to piss on the grave of the dead president of the Republic and the people have said it since, he's two years old, he calls Sergei "pishoi". Look what this man's been doing. In 2019, from Dubrovnik, he insulted our country, the state of Serbia. He was cursing and lying in the name of President Vukic. In Dubrovnik, he told a Croatian journalist, I quote -- we have a group of criminals in power with a primary school, and some with a high school, and they do things that are ordinary, to say in the original, cuntd, finished quote. You see what this man says in another country about our country and about our organs of power. Never a member of the SNS or before, while we were part of the SRS, we didn't speak a single word in the name of our country or the opposition MP in another country. Is that right, gentlemen, from the opposition benches that you're watching now? That's right, of course. From Dubrovnik, Sergey Trifunovic, called "pishoi", praises Shipara in Kosovo and Metohija and the ugly Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, so that without shame and shame, he accused Serbs and the state of Serbia of saying, quote -- the Vucic clan in Kosovo and Metohija killed Oliver Ivanovic, a final quote. Are you respected citizens, fellow university professors, fellow students, especially you from Pristina University, can you believe that such disgusting lies are pronounced by this tall, let's say, politician, he's still a politician, and then an artist, etc.? Does he know that Oliver Ivanovic, and he probably knows or pretends he doesn't know, has been darkened in a Shiptar prison, not in Serbian prisons? From Dubrovnik further orders, I quote – there was genocide in Srebrenica, and in Jasenovac the massacre was completed quote. Shame on him both as an actor and as a man. He only told himself the truth, but that's not enough. I quote what he said about himself, he said - I am a fool, a finished quote. That doesn't justify it, because this fool Sergei Trifunovic has been saying it in Dubrovnik for two years, and he curses the mother of Vucic to the ugliest curses there is. Now, to see what a wonderful patriot it is, but it's not just him because of the weather, 18 opposition politicians were making such a statement as Sergei Trifunovic, and now I'm going to quote you. He said on January 31st 2019, quoting "Kosovo is Albanian, not Serbian," the quote concluded. Well, let him sell to his father, from his father's land, and he won't give up our land. I'm just surprised what the D.A.'s doing? He's got a member of the Criminal Code, so I don't count him now, which is why he's supposed to be the prosecutor to react. He relocated Sergey Trifunovic and the border of debauchery by lying that the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, at the time of our country's bombing by NATO villains and the bombing of RTS knew in advance about the attack and that he pulled his mother who was a journalist in time from the RTS building. The truth is President Vukic's mother was in the RTS building that night. Trifunovic was denied by two of Serbia's top political opponents, Aleksandar Vukic, who is now the late Slavisa Lekic, the recent president of NUNS, who said, quote: "People who were in RTS that evening claim that the mother of the president of the Republic was there," the quote concluded. Zeljko Pantelic says, "You're right, Lekic, she sat across from me that night," a quote concluded. To see what a poor man is about, with no morals and no cheeks, what our people would say. That's why Biljana Srbanovic, with whom I do not share political values, is right but I am on the contrary totally in the political sense, when she told Sergey Trifunovic on January 20, 2019, and I quote with this poor man I will complete the discussion about him. So I quote: “Unwashed and lying Sergei. That's the leader of the protest. He always crawled up my ass, always a sneaky liar, was a gold medal in getting in my ass. He always lied, always smelled, always grabbed himself for drinks, money and a meal, never washed, always cheated on his colleagues," the quote ended. So no wonder the people call him, excuse me, but I will really demonstrate, he says: “One gram for now, and two grams for carrying. ” No wonder, therefore, he spoke such disgusting words. Let's move on. These days, his colleague, but on a daily basis, believed or not, academician Dusan Teodorovic, saw you yesterday and yesterday on television under the control of Dragan Djilas, an insult to the president of the Republic of Vukic. I guess he's obsessed with him, so much hatred when his name comes up, I guess I haven't seen him in my life anywhere, or at any time when I've worked with students, students, or people. When the president's name is mentioned, then he shakes his head with hatred like this, and it's no wonder the people call him an academic "shockhead". What did the academic “shockhead ” say? Well, that academic supports violence in society. He supported that our junior Nevena Djuric, an SNS MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, be beaten, imagined, just because she spoke at RTS. Believe it or not, honourable MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, academician Teodorovic is the chairman of the SANU Education Committee and has publicly told parents, quote: "Parents beat children on time", finished the quote. Mr. Academia, children don't fight, children are raised. If you have at least a bit of shame, if you have at least a bit of professor morale, Mr. Academy, I believe that, after such publicly spoken statements and recommendations, the pedagogical public of Serbia expects you to resign as president of the SANU Education Committee, and I, in Serbian academics in the majority, 90%, believe that they will also request his resignation because this act has humiliated not only the institution, but all the pedagogy from the time of St. Sava to today in Serbia. Dr. Teodorovic insults the president of the Republic, Aleksandra Vukic, on a daily basis in words of an unworthy coachman, not an academic. So on February 23, 2019, he said, "The head of the state is a fan, a hooligan who is rude," a quote concluded. These are the words of a professor, a doctor of the university and academia of SANU. The moral and human gromada, professor Dusan Teodorovic, on the show "360 degrees" in 18.07.2019, was called "primitants" on TV under the control of Dragan Gilas. His colleague Stupar, a journalist on the same show, quotes: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a barn", a quote concluded. Mr. Teodorović and Mr. Journalists, we may be primitives, but Mr. Teodorovic, these primitives here in this room never wanted to escape the country like you did during the 1999 bombing of our country and the country that bombed us the most. You came back when the bombing was over and you saved your tour, but you didn't save Mr. Academyman's cheek, and dignity is what judges should have, and academics and teachers are even bigger. That would never have been done by Alexander the Wolf that you attack every day, lie, make it up. On March 5th 2020, Dr Teodorovic said that Aleksandar Vukic was Hitler, and the citizens who support him by the Nazis, and thus you insulted the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and not only our president, but also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The moral gromada of academics, Dr Teodorovic, said on 22.07.2010, this speaks of him, respected citizens, this quote, so I quote, "Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia", finished the quote, and then stabbed his own country in the back and placed himself in the ranks of our country's traitorous bastards. Patriotism, Mr. Academyman, and the morals of a scientist make it great. They fertilise science just as they ennobled Serbia's and the world's Nikola Tesla, who told students in Belgrade on June 2nd 1892 on his return from the United States, quote: "As you hear and see, I also remained a Serb across the sea where I do research. Stay the same, and raise the glory of Serbia in the world with your knowledge and work," finished the quote. Remember, Mr. Academyman, this sentence. The Moral gromada, Dr. Teodorovic, violently attacked Zdravko Colic just because he sang to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic at the opening of a private hotel. So he showed his blindness and hatred for the great artist and also for the president of the state. Moral size and gromada, Professor Dusan Teodorovic, attacked on February 23rd 2019, Momčal Bajagic Bajagu only because he sang at Vesic's concerts and took pictures here, he said, in Belgrade with barbarians. He called us barbarians. It was carried by a leaf under the control of Dragan Gilas. Moral gromada Dusan Teodorovic attacked Aleksandar Vukic just because he was the initiator of raising the monument to Stefan Nemanja. The wise, overly good academic said, quote -- the monument means killing history for Stefan Nemanja and the Serbian people, finished quote. Imagine respected citizens replacing the thesis and replacing the value. Let alone now this academic of ours, I believe he has so much morals and that he will resign. The day before yesterday, Professor Dr. Serbia's Turajlic reported again. That one doesn't come off the TV screen under the control of Dragan Gilas. Professor Dr. Turajlic also attacked the monument to Stefan Nemanja. She said, quote -- a monument to Stefan Nemanja is monstrous and needs to be torn down and removed from the Sava Square in Belgrade, a complete quote. Visiting the N1 said that this monster monument is, quote, something that every normal should be ashamed of. Here, I'm not ashamed, so you call me whatever you want. It's one of the most beautiful gifts this country has ever given me in my life to raise that monument. That is, I quote further - I stress, quote - such a shame for this city and the shame that generations will bear if the monument is not removed, the quote is completed. Of course you won't remove the monument. I quote further her statement - did this nation, this country, fall to the point that in the 21st century something so monstrous, finished quote. This was not done by the most cruel of the Ustashas, therefore not the Croats, but they stood up in Croatia, which appeared during the monument, and it seems to me that she had a connection with them and a part of the opposition leaders. A memorial to Stefan Nemanja, founder of the Serbian medieval state, is the most beautiful gift of the Serbian people and states given for the past 800 years and a guideline to their future generations to love to defend their Serbian Orthodox Church and their Serbian state. The monument was erected during Serbian ruler Aleksandar Vukic in 2020, I am sure as a historian that the yearbook will record such words. Why does the monument bother Stefan Nemanja, Professor Dr. Serbian Turajlic? First because he was raised to a Serb saint, which is why he bothers her. It bothers her because the monument to Stefan Nemanja worked, made a Russian vair. It bothers her because the initiator of the monument was President Alexander Vukic. It bothers her most because the monument is good for the memory of Serb future generations. A memorial to Stefan Nemanja, founder of the Serbian medieval state, the most beautiful gift of the Serbian people and the state of God in 2020, I have burned all the victims through 820 years for my country and for my Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian people and a guideline for future generations to love and promote, protect and defend their country, their Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian people. The monument was set, as I said, during Serbian ruler Aleksandr Vukic and I add a reformer, builder and defender of the Serbian people and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear People's MPs, I'm going to take a little more time now that I've taken a few words to say about Dragan Gilas, otherwise in a people known as the Gicky Mafia. The Djiki Mafia met in Macedonia in 8.2.2019 with criminals and thieves from Miami to discuss the functioning of the opposition and the destruction of Aleksandar Vukic and the power of the Gjiqi Mafia with their friends. To that end, believe it or not, they received funding to finance "1 out of 5 million" with the aim of ousting the authorities, but they cheated on them so they founded the party and went to the polls. Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic, otherwise Marinika, the political electric rabbit Dragan Dilas, spit on the victims of Jasenovac, believe it or not. In the duet, they staged a tweet saying that Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, quote - a patient and that he should be treated only because he said he saw Gage Antonijevic's movie "Dara from Jasenovac" because he said the president is difficult and important for our injured Serbian people. This Twitter player was particularly angry that the president of Serbia said that the realization of the film took place on his initiative. Gilas collapsed not only on the victims of Jasenovac but on all those who say something nice about the Republic of Serbia. So Gilas collapsed on the ambassador to Serbia, Mr. Godfi only because he praised SNS and Alexander Vukic. Gilas said, I quote -- he will end up, an ambassador, a mandate that would only make sense if he opens an ethnic Serbian restaurant somewhere in America, as he mainly engaged in a tour of culinary activities and Aleksandra Vukic, finished a quote. That's what the Gicky Mafia says, the great patriot of this country. The 619m-euro Giki Mafia is constantly boasting about money, respected citizens, your money. He said, I quote -- I paid four thousand euros in the hotel overnight, one night, and I can pay 17,000 euros for a single villa for one night at sea and a 5,000-euro shoe, finished quote. Where did you get the money, Mr. Gilas? I know what you're going to say on your tycoon media. You will say – by work, and I ask you – the face of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose work, when you were ordinary naked before entering politics? You, Mr. Gilas, insult President Alexander Vukic daily just because he builds the Republic of Serbia on a daily basis. So while you were on your N1 TV, you insulted the president when Gilas said, quote – Vukiću, you are crazy, finished quote. On the note of his journalist – will you stop it, jiki mafia answers – I will strengthen it by saying three times – Vukiću you are crazy, finished quote. Mr. Gilas, he's probably crazy because he didn't steal like you 619m euros or because he's building schools, hospitals, highways, roads, bridges, factories, railways every day with citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Respected citizens, in the end, while Dragan Gilas daily robs Serbia, and I believe that the prosecution and other authorities are doing their job and will put it in a certain place, while Gilas daily fills the accounts by various destinations in 17 countries and over 100 of his accounts until then, Alexander Vukic leads the policy of peace, the policy of security of all our citizens, the health policy of all our citizens not only in Serbia but also in the region and beyond, economic progress policy and the policy of modernization of the Republic of Serbia, and we do it all because of the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10638	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10639	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, I expected that under this item of the agenda today we would determine the termination of Ms. Lidija Komlen Nikolic's prosecutorial office, precisely because on 19 September 2021 in the National Assembly, she clearly, openly and consciously threatened the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, meaning here, under this roof, in public listening. On that occasion, she said the following about constitutional changes, that she would go through control first and foremost of all of the MPs in the National Assembly, but I'm afraid she might not. If it doesn't pass, all this stuff we've just talked about, this isn't about saying some kind of threat, but we're just gonna have to give up some positive approach and action. A representative of a non-governmental organisation, one of the Prosecutors' Association, said this, in doing so, that representatives of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Council remain silent and without any reaction. Who has the right to demonstrate the threat and force of the National Assembly in this way, according to the MPs of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, putting into view a certain degree of abuse of their position towards MPs, even leading to the fact that there is an organized group who is willing to act in such a manner. This has caused so many violations of the prosecution's ethical code and serious violations of the Criminal Code more than enough to resign himself to the post he's doing if the state's chief prosecutor didn't have the strength and desire to prosecute this. The special weight of this statement and the threats expressed gives her the fact that she was a respected and respected colleague of a longtime prosecutor, that if she had learned anything else about the gravity and seriousness of every word spoken, and in some of the trials I attended, I saw that she was ruthless in not accepting any excuse when the defendants explained that they had misrepresented themselves. Unfortunately, resignations or resolutions due to such concessions or at least apologies in Serbia do not occur, but when MPs who are otherwise not lawyers or fellow lawyers who do not have long-standing experience in some nuances are misrepresented in their enthusiasm, so that I may say something wrong, then there is a one-hearted canonda of all NGOs extremely well-funded from abroad. I am sorry that this is not a part of the agenda, and I am also sorry to apologize to Honorable colleague Rank Maksimovic, the Attorney General of the Court of Justice in Kursumlia, who, when we vote on it, will cease his post as a public prosecutor because he has met the conditions for retirement and I want him to enjoy the long-deserved pension in health. As for the proposal for the Presidents of the Courts of Fundamentals in Krusevec, Majdanpek and Novi Pazar and the Criminal Court in Lazarevec, I only hope that the High Council of the Judiciary, proposing these colleagues, had a special view of their organisational capacity. We have a lot of court presidents who are very capable and very well organized by the work of the courts but we have examples of quite the opposite. I hope that these colleagues will not be able to conceal their incompetence by imposing on judges who are enormized by an enormous number of cases that are forced to make appointments and appointments for 2023 even though they are fully aware, as well as all those judges who make it impossible for these trials to be held. Not being able to provide enough interns, volunteers, professional associates and organizes a job is something that should be taken into account by the State's Major Prosecutors. Otherwise, it is the President of the Third Basic Court in Belgrade that we do not remain unarranged. I hope that these new colleagues and the presidents of the courts will not be obliged, when it comes to protecting the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the right to a fair trial and acting as President of the Second Basic Court, to the soul, she has delegated this obligation to her deputies, where eight years of full non-judgment under the motion to execute a strong court ruling considers that the trial has not been violated within a reasonable period. Today, the trustee withdrew a proposal for execution and an objection which he simply made without expecting more that the court would be able to welcome what was to be completed at least seven years ago, if not within three and short deadlines that the laws at that time explained. Even the debtor got sick of it, so he volunteered. There we have come to the Serbian judiciary in some places because we are dealing with things that are not in place. It is a great pleasure for me, although it may be the last of the judges elected by this Assembly, if constitutional changes are adopted in the way they are at least now spoken of. It is my great pleasure that this does not happen, because if it does, Mr Igor Nikolic should know, if this is the last choice in the mandate and before constitutional changes, where he is the last of the judges in Serbia who has been elected with a legitimate right to make decisions on behalf of the people, but on this, when the time comes to discuss constitutional amendments, and it will be very soon. Simply, MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly have the right to comment on court decisions. What I disagree with is absolutely commenting on court proceedings that are ongoing in any form and form, through the media and the rest, but I must say that this file and this behavior have not been initiated by MPs. Some judges started a few years ago. This was covered up by the presidents of the courts who, even today contrary to the Rules of Procedure, allow them to give statements without special approval and do not initiate proceedings against them, so if those who apply the law behave contrary to it, do not expect citizens of the Republic of Serbia who complain daily, many with reasonable reasons, many, just because they wrongly think they are right, regret the MPs who are forced to react here. Therefore, if the judiciary expects MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and even if the Constitution changes as announced, we cannot listen and cannot read and react to the injustice they see, then it is seriously wrong. Although it's not the subject of this today, but the prosecution has the right and obligation to initiate proceedings based on facts it also learns from the media. I don't know if the prosecution has taken over so far, or even many times after the reports that have been filed, the prosecution against the challenge of racial, religious and other intolerances that we have witnessed these days, and what is extremely said. Here those who try to challenge racial hatred, religious hatred, national impatience, those who spit on the face and work of General Mladic should be processed. The D.A.'s office is silent, and there's knowledge. It was silent in many other ways, so it's not surprising. But let them know today and forever that there is no obligation by any law in Serbia to recognise the UN tribunal's decision. The International Court of Justice, a permanent one, yes, but the UN tribunal's decision has no obligation to confess in any way or accept it. Nor can anyone bear responsibility for commenting on such judgments. The court was invented, made up, paid to take a picture of a genocide nation from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to wash someone else's genocide past from the last century for a future, but we won't let that happen. And not just us, it's obvious that much bigger experts and knowers than I am and anyone in this room have said there was no genocide in Srebrenica, so whatever we're chewing on that piece of paper there in The Hague when it comes to the verdict of Ratko Mladic. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary is an important segment of our society, but as much as judges and prosecutors respect themselves, as they take care of their behavior in the environment in which they live, so many citizens of the Republic of Serbia also respect them. We will respect them too, but we are obliged to make every relevant criticism on behalf of the citizens. As far as something is concerned, I, as a communist, have the obligation to say that General Mladic, General Lazarevic, General Pavkovic, Colonel Sljivancanin and many, many whose names can now be sorted but this session is short for it, are heroes of this people, honor and reputation of Serbia's army, the Republic of Serbia has preserved. The younger generations should look up to them. History should be taught in the history of our grandfathers, our fathers, these people I counted, not based on what the NGO wants to bring and impose, paid by those who do not want Serbia well, and that is a false Hague truth. In the fight against false Hague truth, the judiciary instead of helping us, sometimes I get the impression that it's getting away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10640	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky. Last registered MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10641	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, every day when we enter the National Assembly, when we look to the right, we see Karadjord. I, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, respectfully show three fingers, because the modern Serbian state has been restarted again by peasants. If that had been the case with other Serbians, I believe we wouldn't have the state today. When I look to the left, I see Emperor Dushan. I'm sorry there's no Holy Sava and the Law, but there's Emperor Dushan and the Lawman who holds over the exchanges. But other than the Law, if you notice, hold the cannon. That's what he means to say that the laws that have been written and adopted, without being able to be implemented, are no laws whatsoever. That cannon is the power to enforce the law. These were modern Serbian laws, as well as the 1835 Constitution. He was the most modern European constitution at the time. So then the Serbian government was forced, because of the excessive human rights guaranteed by this constitution, to be withdrawn. Today we need to remember both Cavtat and Valtazar Bogisic, who says, the law is for every law, what the law gives you, no one takes you away. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the legal right to monitor television transmissions from the list of major events of interest to all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. The list includes political, cultural and sports events. That's the law list that makes up REM and he does it. On that list and qualifications for the European and world championships of the senior football team. This is guaranteed by the law, Article 64. That's what Emperor Dushan keeps here. This is what we adopted instead of Emperor Dushan, who reminds us every day not only to watch our laws, Karadjorje tells us where our country is, but why are they not implemented? That is why this independence of the judiciary is not divine, because it reminds us to check why this power in the court that lies did not implement the law, why the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were deprived of watching the transfer of their football team, which the law guaranteed them, Article 64, which says that such transfers can be transmitted by television channels covering the entire market of the Republic of Serbia, as a coverage zone, and have free access, which means that they can go to the antenna? So the elderly are remembered, it's the Law on Electronic Media, gentlemen of the judge, member of the 64 most important events, REM published by the regulator, which is by law. REM is getting old, we respect the regulator's independence, but the law says the regulator must ensure that the football team can be transferred to all citizens. We're deprived of that right, by the law of guaranteed law. The courts are quiet. The football team's playing, half the citizens don't know, half the citizens didn't see the moment Mitrovica scored. We saw Radanovic, we saw Jajic in time, we saw Catalinski, we saw Karasi. Mitrovica's half the citizens, mostly from rural areas, and I'm the guardian of the villagers, at least I think I'm the guardian of the villagers as the president of the People's Peasants' Party, couldn't watch even though the law gave them, but someone took them. This one is called the United Media, which has become a sacred cow. We made so many memos to the D.A., REM, etc. We tried so hard, some of the MPs, however, Mr. Martinovic, was not worth it. No one wanted to provide, and they had the power, to ensure by law the guaranteed right for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not only the Republic of Serbia, but also Serbs and others in an environment that respects Serbia's football team, this through RTS should be able to watch. However, it is the right that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Serbs living in the region did not have, although it says -- what no one has taken from you. Therefore, there are other sayings. The law is for every law. Obviously, the law doesn't apply to Solak and Gilas. We wrote a sea of letters. Not only has the Law on Electronic Media been violated, but the Convention on Cross-border Television. The advertising law, article 27, which says re-emitting televisions, which are claimed by those from United Media to re-emission programmes from Luxembourg, do not have the right to advertise, except those from the original ones that go to Luxembourg. There's a bunch of commercials being broadcast. This has resulted in illegal revenues at the expense of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are not allowed to watch the game transfer of their team. Therefore, the benefits came true. The number of subscribers has increased. When people saw that they couldn't track the TV transmission of their team on the channels the law says they would pass on the game, then they went faster to "Eon", "Total", "SBB", and went to "United Media", to Šolak. That's why Solak drives three planes. He drives three planes, ladies and gentlemen, because the judiciary and REM on these laws that we pass, what Emperor Dusan holds – power must be exercised. It doesn't seem necessary for us, it seems that the law applies only to individuals, to domestic media that have to follow the rules and are registered here. Those who are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg and who serve to have three Falcones, three planes, robbing a certain way of domestic media. They say - rule of law. Does the rule first apply to electronic media or when Sollac does not have the rule of law? They don't have the right to transfer, they don't have the right to rule of law, they can break the laws on electronic media, the Convention on Transboundary Television, the Law on Advertising, the Law on the Protection of Competition, and everyone is making the ignorant. What am I supposed to suspect? That they're all in the chain, and they're not, they're just some people being bribed. While electronic media, through the kidnapping of ads, if someone broadcasts ads, and the law does not have the right to do so, is taking part of the income to domestic media that should be supported by these revenues, without income, there is no freedom of the media, so importantly affecting freedom of the media and the rule of law. In doing so, they have the support of certain Europarliamentaries. Right? They also have the support of local Serbians who exploit it. That's why I'm saying -- we don't have a problem with the opposition, we already have a problem with Solakov and Gilas's business, because those who have the power to enforce the laws and punish them in that violation don't want to do it. I will file criminal charges against persons of REM officials and the responsible persons from United Media, SBB and Total because they have deprived and allowed citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be deprived of this pleasure, that pleasure to see the moment when we defeat the European champion with the goal of Aleksandr Mitrovica? It's one of the greatest successes of our team. The team is called because it represents the Serbian state and the Serbian people. This is what the Serbian people in half the situation, the patriotic mood living in the country, did not have the right to see because those who have the power to force Solak and Gilas to enforce the law do not want to do so, but even help them break the law and law. There is a saying, in the end, that because some seem to be in a hurry, the same Valtazar Bogisic, from Cavtat's lawyer, I don't know if he was a Serb, but I know that he wrote the property code of Montenegro, and the good code, and I respect him regardless of his nationality, because he has good sayings, a saying that says, "The biggest accident is when one of the evils of his own still benefits." So, except that the evils found that they couldn't watch the broadcast, they could at least have played that most significant game, because the two qualifications had already been profited, they could have played that most significant game. But they didn't want to. They went all the way. Few of them, they never had enough, as Sasa Radulovic would say. They wouldn't release the transmission. They've benefited from it, and I'll explain how. Not only on their fictitious Luxembourg channels to broadcast ads contrary to Article 27. The advertising laws, they already end Fox channels, Cinestar channels, end ten more, fifteen more channels, inserting commercials, and thus causing problems and these channels because they were cross-border channels. By inserting commercials, they lose re-emission status. They broadcast 200,000 seconds a day for commercials. Only that at two euros, on RTS when it's transferred is 100 euros ad second, and some are two euros, 200 000 seconds a day, that's 400 000 euros. A day of 400,000 euros, times 365 days, is 150m euros each year. Let me tell you right now which money he buys from and from which money is financed by various organisations in Serbia, to destroy not the government, I have no objection, but to bring down in a certain way the reputation of the Serbian state, which they have succeeded through these illegal transfers that the law does not give them, but has taken away. So, they profit from the evil part of theirs and we all watch them take 150m euros a year and invest, replace that trough. You know that donor trough for "en-ji" organizations that are fighting murals, etc., which say Serbia has gone deep into fascism. Serbia, which lost three million people in the 20th century, which suffered an outrageous genocide, the Serbian people, are accusing it of being a mural of being a deep fascist state. And those people from the city where they built a symbol for the once decorated fascists of the Acif Effigy! Where is that power of the prosecution and courts to enforce the law and say that a decorated fascist must be removed from Hitler by an iron cross? No, we allowed someone to protect it to come to Belgrade and say that a communist general was actually a fascist, even though his fascists killed his father. We're going down into fascism because they're going after the donor trough, the international one. It seems that it's shortened the cords from which, to put it, I have to say, I'm a peasant, I'm plastic to say, who they're separated from, and they're replacing money with illegal commercials and Gilas and Solak's incomes, and they're raising rebellion. You had a riot here in July with nine ready cameras. Like everything was spontaneous, there were only nine cameras around the Assembly, where the instructions of the protesters are where there are the least police officers, where to make chaos, where to beat this assembly. How many of those people who broke that law were brought to justice for years? Whoever throws a pound stone at the police, it's an attempt on the official's life to commit an official act. Tell me, how many people were responsible for that? Very little. That is why I support what Valtazar Bogisic said – the biggest accident is, and it must be interrupted by the gentlemen of the judges when one of the evil works of his own still benefits. You must punish the guilty and protect the innocent. That has not been the case in Serbia so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10642	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask, before I conclude, whether the word wants someone who has not applied his right to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I hereby conclude, pursuant to Article 98(4), a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in point 7. The 8th and 9th agenda. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. We move on to a search in detail of the Bill on Biocidal Products. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: Irena Vujovic, Minister of Environment Protection; Jelena Tanaskovic and Aleksandar Dujanovic, State Secretary; Aleksandra Imširagić Đurić, Deputy Minister and Sara Pavkov, head of the Office of the Minister of Environment Protection. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Gojko Palalic to the bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the Government's opinion on the table of amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Palalic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10644	I thank you, Chairman, Mr. Orlic. I will tell you about the amendment of the Bill on Biocidal Products amending and it is said that for a biocidal product which appears to be available on the market and which is not subject to the regulations which have been in force until the entry into force of this Act, the obligation to obtain acts on the basis of which the biocidal product appears to be available on the market or in use, or the user, shall be required by the manufacturer, within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act, to apply for the adoption of one of the acts referred to in Article 9 of this Act. The Biocidal Products Regulation regulates the internal market of the European Union and the harmonisation of the legal framework, which is one of the basic postulates and policies implemented by the Serbian Government, together with the restoring ministry, where primary protection of the population, is a natural environment that does not have a negative effect on the environment by precautionary measures. Driven by a responsible policy and by a statesman such as Serbia in the new history does not remember, President Aleksandr Vukic, at this difficult time of the crown, we have succeeded and helped to obtain vaccines, respirators and medical equipment, which we donated to both neighbours and members of the European Union. A help that was crucial to saving lives in this fight against an extremely dangerous disease. It is Serbia's policy that is sovereignly moving forward, not only as an economic leader in the region, but also as a carrier of the idea that only peace and empathy can contribute to the further development of all countries in the region. People first. And how do the Sunday-proved representatives of the yellow tycoon company led by Dragan Gilas today work to restore Serbia and all its citizens, such as decades ago? Do they beg foreign embassies and foreign congressmen led by Albanian sanctions lobbyists? Is it by being a bit of an imaginary genocide that they invent five more, as they storm General Ratko Mladic's mural, according to the Gilas boss's directive? The tycoon bullulment, which does not even mention Kravica in 1993, never mention in a word Ante Gotovina, Tomislav Mercep, Naser Oric, Adem Jasari, who would probably have been given street names and instead of monuments to Stefan Nemanja erected a monument rather than one of them. Is there any end to their hatred? There, unfortunately, is not the end. They always go one step further, embittered by the successes of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic in all fields, from economy to sport. Vulgarno, in their coaching manner, helpless in the lack of an elementary mind, on the tycoon canals of nothing new weeds of hatred, where it is once again targeted by President Alexander Vukic's family. Doomed by Gilas' puppet theatre, renowned political statist Sergey Trifunovic, due to the lack of weed, attacks the president's monstrous mother. There, of course, are no yellow frames behind, masked in fictitious false inspections. One such thing, according to his boss's directive, persecutes the son of the president of the state at work, so that, according to their political programme, they can spin and orchestrately strike on a young man who is constantly drawing a target, it is only because he is breathing and only because of the last name he proudly wears. Of course, there is also an occupied fighter who has the right to accuse Serbs of false genocide, the famous worker "Multicoma" Marinika Morović, who is changing cars from "porshea" to BMW, because there is still – can be. Because it's stronger, with all its strength against the citizens of Serbia. Only while the master's ATM works. Of course, they're very sick in Serbia. They suffer in “porshes ” and millions. The disaster they left behind we are paying today, while the tycoon-mafian cartel from the former regime is having fun competing who will hit more, stronger and more morbidly on the people and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. It is a reflection of their democracy, where all of us who think and do different clay pigeons of their programme of devastation of Serbia are marked only because we are building hundreds of kilometers of roads at the head with Alexander Vukic, and they could not even a kilometer. They are bothered by the increase in wages, pensions, construction of factories, hospitals and the return of dignity to the state, which now stands proudly as the first for direct foreign investments, rather than the first for devastion and robbery privatisations. Serbia's face is no longer the same, nor will it ever be. There is no turning back, because the people are determined to stand behind everything Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic fights heroically for. Work, results and Serbia are top priority today. Therefore, the darkness of the past will only give the people of Serbia an even more convincing defeat in the elections and send them into oblivion, right where they belong. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10645	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10646	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Minister with the Co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens, has not spent a day in this country to not spit on highways. Not a single day goes by, not a second, not an hour before tycoons and criminals led by Dragan Gilas, driven by panic and fear of justice attack the family of the President of the Republic and the President of the Republic himself. Not a day goes by that everything in Serbia is normal, decent and advanced. Not a day goes by in Serbia, but not one day, not to threaten any member of the government, some MP, some member of the SNS, and most of all the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. And why is that? That's what we need to talk about. We have no right to remain silent. We've got the citizens' trust to work in their interest, the best we can and know. We have no right to remain silent. We have received citizens' confidence that we are working in their interest as best we can and we do not have the right to hide and to remain silent as they attack all forces of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, members of the Government, and in every way they try to discredit them, force them to withdraw from what is worst in Serbia trying to take power. It wouldn't be terrible if he called himself part of the opposition gathered around tycoon Dragan Gilas and his criminals that he didn't want it there to be an election for power, because there wouldn't be any chance, there's no doubt that they can't come to the polls to the authorities. However, it is terrible that they are trying to break the President of the Republic, break his will to force him to withdraw and leave Serbia at the mercy of criminals and tycoons. I am convinced, these predators led by Gilasom, Marinico, Borko and others, who are walking so well in their BMWs, the Porsches, across Serbia, who carry citizens from place to place messages, here we are when we get out of the Porsche will dawn on you. Really when they come out of the Porsche and never come back, Serbia will definitely be dawned then. No one can explain to me, with their salaries, and these are salaries compared to the property they have, how they managed to get to those cars. No one in their right mind can understand anyone sitting in an expensive Porsche, expensive BMW, going after Serbia and talking about the poor. Here, I'm going to shed a tear because of how difficult it is for them and how bad they are in their expensive cars or when they come out of their villas, their pools, smelled, bloated, arranged, in expensive shoes, suits, and then Serbian citizens say they're poor. Watch out, this hypocrisy, these human misery, these moral freaks, who are able to talk about the poor. You have no right to earn 619m euros, thanks to the functions you have performed during that period to tell anyone about the poor, or to tell someone how hard it is to live in Serbia, how bad it is in Serbia, how terrible it is, how it is some darkness. What darkness? We have daily hits on dozens of their mafia tycoon portals, various Luxembourg media, where dozens of new blows, insults, insults come from. They say we're fascists, how we're like this, so in time, when I told them about it, all the trees and stones hit us because I rated them the way they did. What now? And it's all happened since the gentleman got back from Washington. There are various incidents in the streets, trying to provoke provocations that will cause incidents of broader proportions, but it's not going to work. That's why they get more nervous and nervous every day. No provocations, no setups succeed. It happens by chance where some egg-throwing, some alleged scandal, happens several television cameras from all over the place, that by chance, there they are, right here to record what's going on. Why, if you wanted to do something you didn't do without cameras, without pomp, went to do what you wanted, if you really feel it in yourself as your own human being, and when they say, morally, the need for them to disrupt, destroy or destroy something, but you need media attention. You need a circus. There are places for them if they are for the circus, you know where to apply and they will certainly be admitted there, because as circuses there can pass, and if I don't know who would pay the ticket to watch them, because it's a pain for Serbian citizens to watch them more. Believe me, I'm sick of opening a cell phone or a laptop, seeing the news that they're saying the worst about Serbia. In Serbia at the moment, 10 highways, fast-tracking cars are being built. That's what brings people life, it eats rather than pays them. Don't bring them any blank promises, BMW junkies, Poreshea or some expensive destinations. Over 200 new factories have come to this country just because it's finally started working in this country, and it's stopped robbery, corruption, furniture. That's why investors come to Serbia, because we have a responsible man in charge of Serbia who is fighting for the interests of this country. Because we take care of the price of gas for our population and for investors in Serbia. To be competitive with other countries in the region, to attract everyone to come to us and to come and open their factories in Serbia. For what? Well, because of those citizens who should stay here. For every child in Serbia. Our children will have nothing to do with watching Marinika come out of the BMW and talk about torture and poverty or when she hallucinates about chickens and drug dealers. Serbia has nothing to do with it. It's an attempt swings at this people. That's why Serbia has when we say, the highway will be open, there'll be a bridge, there'll be a factory, there'll be salaries rising since January of the month, pensions are going up, standards are growing from year to year. People feel it, just when they go into the store and pay their bills, they feel it, and they see what it's like from month to month, year to year. They see it's better, there's no lying, there's no cheating. The election comes and then you see by the election results how it is. When someone with a 3% censorship won't make the election, you can see why they won't come out. What wouldn't someone who wanted to fight for their politics, if they had a policy, ran for elections, went out with some program if there was any program, came to the Assembly and opposed that great program here and said, you from SNS, now I'm going to show you how great I have a program to hear citizens say that in direct transmission every day, there's a chance for marketing theirs. And what are they going to offer the citizens? To say they'd throw eggs and then talk about hunger and poverty. To say they'll destroy something. That they would destroy the facades on Karajordje's street because in time we would say everything about how it was in Belgrade once we returned. Now, that'll be when you get back to power tomorrow in Belgrade, you'll get everything back the way it used to be. Don't let God be like that, because this Karadjordjev, this Saval, and other streets in Belgrade, I don't remember people walking so much, opening their small businesses, their shops, their cafes, hiring someone, not having anyone to go, nobody wanted to go through. What increase do tourists have in Belgrade today? Well, why come these people tourists, aren't people silly to go to some city that's a ruin that's terrible, that's backwards, ruined. Well, I guess when you buy an arrangement somewhere to go with your family, you go where it's nice to see something. That means if hundreds of percent of the time the arrival of tourists in Belgrade, in Serbia, means that Serbia is moving forward and there is something in it to see. And what you had to see during Dragan Gilas, Tadic, Bork and everyone else. Here, they show, their champions, Aida and others, show what they can see. They can see egg-throwing around the center when they come to power. It's a programme, it's the highlight of the tycoon NGO's policy, Dragan Gilas, to attack Serbia. Well, to all of that, at the height of hysteria, the Serbian people committed genocide. Well, you're not normal. What genocide was committed by a people who never fought any conquest wars, first of all. Second, as a people who had always had to, he unfortunately had to defend his hearths wherever he lived. Like the people who lost a million and a half people in World War I. Like a people who lost over a million and a half people in World War II. Well, only in that Jasenovac, and they say, don't talk about Jasenovac, you're saying there was nothing in Srebrenica then. No, it's why we don't have the only right to say where genocide has been committed against our people and why we can't say it's genocide. Why can't we say that genocide was committed in 1995 in "Storm", "Blash" and their other Ustasha actions. Why can't we say that? Why do we have to keep quiet about Jasenovac? Well, for sixty years we've kept quiet about this Jasenovac and we shouldn't have said anything like Serbs in Serbia. Today we have Alexander Vukic and we will talk and while he is the last Serb we will talk about what happened in Jasenovac, because not only Serbs, it must not forget the world. This world that turns its head whenever Serbian victims are mentioned. Every time we turn away from him and say, "Look at the holy things that you do not let be heard." Look at the volume of those over a million and 200,000 people killed in Jasenovac, Roma, Jews and Serbs the most. Look at the victims. Look at that camp, first camp, for children camp, for killing children was in Jasenovac. And we can't talk about it. No, I don't. We can. And we're gonna talk about it the most. We're going to say that the Serbs didn't commit genocide anywhere. Nowhere and never. He'll never commit it. And that the Serbs never took revenge on anyone. Serbs are not that kind of people. The Serbs are just victims of propaganda, so if you want me to give criticism to us, as Serbs, victims of my silence, the victim of bowing his head to the truth about the suffering of his people. We kept quiet under Communism, we didn't have to say that someone would come to work or not to lose, I don't know what. We will never again remain silent about our victims. Well, let him judge whoever he wants, let him talk about it. Not even Gilas, not the bad ones, but a small percentage, it's a very small percentage of those of our people who say it was genocide, it won't stop us from telling the truth, it won't stop us from talking about our victories, it won't stop us from remembering those heroes who crossed a terrible goal to Thessaloniki and Corfu, it won't stop us from talking about the death of World War II, the death of the 1990s, because it's true. But we're always ready to say, yes, there were individuals with us who did some bad things, but we're not a people who did no genocide. We never had any idea of destroying anyone, just to save our village, our garden, our cities and our people, where they were born, where they lived and where they would live. Serbia will continue to assist its people, in all the territories where he lives, will continue to build roads, will continue to build factories especially after the elections, in April, by the new victory of President Aleksandar Vukic and Serbia's new victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10647	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10648	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Vujovic, with her co-worker, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are these days, these weeks, I would say throughout the year 2021, witnesses to the policy of lies that is being placed by part of the opposition, gathered around Dragan Gilas, and we are witnessing numerous lies that have been spread by Gilasov and Šolakov media throughout the year. When I say they place lies, I mean and place lies about reporting for numerous events. So these days, in particular weeks, we are witnessing a number of ruthless scenes, not only on the streets of Belgrade, but also in the region, and it is clear what is in the background. It is in the background to bring unrest and instability, not only in Belgrade and Serbia, but in the Balkans. This corresponds to certain centres of power both in Serbia and in the region, and in the world. Well, we had, not by chance, at the same time last weekend, at exactly 18 o'clock, protests over the Murals of Ratko Mladic, in Vračar, at the same time 30 minutes earlier, the two cheerleading groups that my colleague, Aleksandar Mirkovic, spoke about yesterday, in Mostar, fans' groups, football clubs, Velez and Mostar Zrinski, started about 17.30 hours, same around the murals. So, someone's day, on those days, was the goal of bringing riots to the streets of Belgrade at the same time, and on the streets of Mostar, just across from the hill where one of the greatest Orthodox saints is located, after the temple of St. Sava, and perhaps next to the church of St. Mark and the largest temple of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Assembly Church of St. Three, in Mostar, which has been visited over the past few years by our President Aleksandar Vukic, and this year our prime minister, Ana Brnabic. Someone does not respond to the complexity of the Serb, Bosniak and Croatian peoples in Mostar and what we have for the first time now in the power of the council, we also have Serbs after almost 30 years. Where's this happening? That's what happens, right at the intersections of the streets of criminals, Aloysius Stepinac and Milet Budak. So, these NGOs in Belgrade, these Gilas media have no problem with either Mile Budak, or Alojsija Stepinac, street names in the western part of Mostar, named after numerous Ustasha villains and murderers from the Second World War and from the war of the 1990s. At the same time, Aida Ćorovic speaks at a rally, where she publicly admits, or it is not a rally, it is a collection of hands of people, publicly admits that they are not only gathering because of Ratko Mladic, but that their ultimate goal is to bring down Aleksandr Vukic. So it's quite clear that this is about an orchestrated campaign against Alexander Vukic. Why? Because he is the protector of a strong Serbian and Serb people, wherever he lives in the region. Someone is not responding, and we also know who, strong and stable Serbia, in which both Serbian, Bosniak and Hungarian and all other peoples live together. Someone does not answer better status for the Serbian people, not alone in Republika Srpska, but also in the Federation of BiH, Northern Macedonia and Montenegro. Someone is not responsible for public talk about crimes against Serbs. Someone is not responding, and we know who, both Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak, Vuk Jeremic and all their associates, and in the media, and NGOs, and their associates in foreign and regional centres of power, are not responsible for talking about the crime against the Serbian people, not during the First World War, but also for attacking President Vukic and all of us from the Serbian government and all of us MPs why we are marking the Day of Reciprocation and why it is said so about the First World War, does not match the movie "The Gift of Jasenovac" when it comes to crimes against the Serb people in the Second World War, does not correspond to the discovery of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, does not match the completion of works at the Holy Trinity Church in Mostar. They don't respond to anything that's Serbian, which is Orthodox and what's true. By the way, since I'm getting circumstances as a folk MP coming from Vrakar, that mural to Ratko Mladic has been standing there for months. It is not the only mural to General Ratko Mladic, there are several more in Belgrade and Serbia. Do you know why these NGOs and these political organisations, Aida Ćorovic, Đilas and their comrades, are too, why they potentiate this mural on the corner of Negoseva Street and Alexa Nenadovic? Because they want riots and blood on the streets of downtown Belgrade. They now remembered almost a year later that this mural exists. Why is that mural, if it bothers them so much, and if it's the only thing that bothers them, why didn't they paint it overnight when there's no cameras, when there's no media, when there's no people? Almost no one would notice. No, but they want unrest in the heart of Belgrade, they want unrest in the heart of Vrachar. They want riots on the streets. He wants to get a handful of 20 or 30 or 50 people to provoke some cheerleading groups. He wants to drop blood in Belgrade. As they wanted last and last year when they broke into this high house and wanted blood here in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when they attacked and attacked, tried to kill Marijan Risticevic at the entrance to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when because of the poor reaction of my counterpart Dr Aleksandar Martinovic and Sandra Christmas strike hunger for the prosecution to react, and we talked today about the work of both the judiciary and the prosecution. Marijan Risticevic, a colleague of mine, reminded great of some of our beautiful historical sports events, which most Serbian citizens will not be able to remember because Dragan Solak, his SBB and Gilas, did not allow most Serbian citizens to watch this historic football match between Serbia and Portugal. Well, we won't be able to do as we did when we didn't live, but we could use television and internet to remind ourselves of historical goals and Dragan Djajic, Catalin and Karasia, or in the newer era, Stojkovic, Pančev, and now Mitrovica, will be able to see only one who has SBB, or if someone recorded on the phone, so switch the video. So, Dragan Šolak and his SBB, and Gilas, and Marinika Tepic, nothing is sacred to them. They do not respond to the success of the team, they do not respond that the Serbian people organized themselves in the 1990s to defend themselves against Ustasha criminals, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Croatia. Whenever the Serbian government, President Vukic, we MPs remind us of the death of the Serbian people, we are under attack. Nothing suits them that is sacred, which is Orthodox, which is Serbian. It doesn't suit them. Why? Because the majority opinion of the people, our citizens both in Serbia and in the Republika Srpska struggle for Serbian, national and state interest, because Serbia has never been better off living together in its history, both Serbian and Bosniak and Hungarian, and all the other peoples, and then yesterday in the parliament of one of the opposition colleagues is a single orthodox lie, that in Serbia it is dangerous to be Bosniak and at times when our dear friends, our Bosniak brothers are almost in all positions, from local self-government to state institutions, where they are placed not on the national key, but because they love their state of Serbia, which respect the Constitution and deserve their profession to be in certain positions, both in the judiciary, and in the prosecution and in all state institutions. Today in Serbia, Bosniaks live together with the Serb brothers, Hungarians and all other nations. Today in Serbia, 18 national minorities have the same rights as the majority Serb people, and that is why they become nervous. First and foremost, Dragan Gilas is aware that with his comrades he cannot return to power legally, through elections, the will of the people. Two, you spent millions. There are demands for new hundreds of millions of euros. He won't let the people steal from him. That's why he won't let the people support him in the election. Under number three, they do not respond to the daily strengthening of Serbia as a state and position of the Serb people in the Balkans and then invent -- let's go blood on the streets of Belgrade, let's attack every monument to some historical figure, let's attack the vaccine, let's attack all the good that Serbia does. Today we had opportunities, here, a few of my fellow MPs got a message from Batut, where they remind us who didn't, and I was vaccinated with three vaccines, where they offer five vaccines different so we can vaccinate against the Coron virus. It's rare where there are in Europe, and I think we're the only ones in Europe. My colleagues who are doctors, doctors, here the MPs will correct me, if I am wrong, I think Serbia is the only one in Europe offering five vaccines. Why are we offering five vaccines? It's not just the difference of choice, the quality is similar. That says something more. It says that Serbia, led by Vukic, is building bridges both with China and Russia, and with Great Britain, both with the United States and with EU countries, and then we have the possibility and acquisition of vaccines and respirators and investments and the creation of consortiums and investments and the making of roads and good economic economy and any other co-operation with almost all world powers and almost all countries of Europe and the countries of the Arab world, Asia, South and North America. So, Serbia is working responsibly today. As Serbia progresses day by day, the opposition around Gilas becomes more nervous and the people need to know. That's the way it is in all the fields. They're in their way. Every movie, every series, every video that talks about strengthening Serbia, where the law is respected, about reminding us of our fair history, glorious history, doesn't suit them. Nothing suits them. They don't even care about the success of our football team because they don't care about Serbia, and we here care about Serbia's SNS MPs. It cared for Serbia because Serbia is our country, and Serbia can continue to strengthen only led by our President, Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10649	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10650	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues have fully explained the amendments, so I do not wish to pay particular attention to them, except to commend the Ministry of Ecology and you, Minister, for the sacrificed work and the excellent results you achieve in order for our citizens to live in a safer and healthier environment. What I would like to say, dear colleagues, is that only someone politically unexperienced could assume that the performance of a fellow MP from the United Valley of the SDA will be ended by carrying out those posters several days ago in the Republika Srpska Assembly and calling for a resolution on the genocide in Srebrenica to be adopted. The same resolution requested yesterday by my colleague Imamovic, who in one unacceptable and extremely unnecessary manner accused Serbia, a country that is one of the most passionate of the fascist hand that is the supporter of fascism and the same resolution that Mrs. Marinika Tepic, one of the most prodigious bids of the opposition in the upcoming elections, is so strong that her boss, Mr. Dragan Djilas, said that anyone who wants to be found on his list must support it, and I ask him this way – Mr. Gilas, if you enjoy so much of the trust of the people, why don't you be at the head of the list and see how many votes you will get? But let me get back to the subject. It is not necessary to be overly wise and to realize that the mentioned colleagues have taken advantage of the retirement of our colleague Zukorlic, who, in his performances both in the public and in this high home in the wise, rational and peaceful policy, sought peace and valid co-existence between our Bosniak brothers and Serbs in the Raška area, so that they will now rise up some ugly spirits of the past, which our party wants to push through with its policy for years with a desire never to return to our public and political space. Only those representatives of their ideological leader, Mr. Ugljanin, who is one of the major medical experts, who, several months ago in the course of the epidemic, told our people that they should not wear protective masks because they increase mortality, the same one that depends on the hierarchical position that is taking place in the executive government, the hour tells that this country is a stepmother, the hour tells that this state is its state, and when it loses its position is called a fascist creation, like yesterday, Mr. Imamovic, only they can revive these poisonous arrows of conflict from the past, nialiating all the good that this government does for the Raska area and our other citizens of Bosniaks, who have done more than all the authorities before it. They do not mean anything by building new schools, such as this school in Sjenica, which will be one of the most modern and modern schools in Serbia, which will have its own pool. It means nothing to them that new hospitals are being built, new and state-of-the-art diagnostic centres or roads that connect, such as the Novi Pazar-Tutin road or the Fisherics or the Karajukic wells, but only to remind ourselves of the evils that occurred in the space in the wars of the 1990s and to get them out of the pits, where they should forever remain bewitched. Whatever this government does well for the Raska area, and I repeat, it has done much more than any previous one, some politicians, such as Ugljanin, such as Mr. Kamberi or Imamovic in all ways are trying to twist the mockery and call for the crimes that were in the past on all sides, because it simply cannot be clear to them that we as a government are not interested in the conflicts of any kind, but only progress, prosperity and better life of every citizen, regardless of what nationality and religion was. They simply have a pathological hatred for this authority, just as our political opponents now have the same amount of hatred and cannot rejoice even because our team has won the World Cup because President Aleksandar Vukic wished them a happy journey and told them to express myself in a sports jargon, to leave their heart on the ground, and then insult the people, to insult both players and selectors and all, of course, by taking out a child treatment card, by playing on the map of our people's sentimentality, and I must remind them that this government has invested thousands of times than they have invested in treating sick children and then should erase it as their asset in the coming period. The first among them that preceded the unfounded indictment of this authority is Mr. Kamberi, who I think is somewhere on the Internet, I saw that he wore a shirt with the symbol "I'm a terrorist" in support of the criminal "Gnjilan Group" and that he was known for his clear anti-state activity in southern Serbia, which is clearly seen by his policy not to reflect the common sense policy of co-operation, perspective and better co-existence of our two people, but rather a serious dose of animosity towards the Serbian state from whose budget draws huge funds for the hidden strengthening of the already existing extremist attitudes which have a foothold on the ideology of which Ridvan Qazimi, commander of the Tronovac, murderers of our soldiers and police officers, and in whose stands Mr. Kamberi spoke several times. Of course, in addition to calling for the adoption of this resolution, Mr. Kambery does not hesitate that every little call and address for help to the Americans, so that they will press Serbia and lead it to something that is clearly put to the knowledge, and that Serbia, at least while the SNS is in power, will never do, and that is the recognition of the violent and illegal kidnapping of part of its sovereign territory, which does not mean, of course, that Serbia and its leadership are not always ready and in every place to sit at a negotiating table and to discuss better relations, co-existence and ultimately, a compromise that would lead to the historic reconciliation of our two peoples. So, as I mentioned at the outset, only the layman would think that the performance of plaques in the Assembly was an isolated act. Shortly thereafter, several hours later, a great justice fighter, of course, under the quote, Aida Ćorovic, assumes in a coordinated action with her constituency, such as Jelena Jaćimovic, who wears a duxer, which says that he is an honest admirer of a satanic sect called "Satan's Temple", decides on a cheap populist step, which is the shooting of the eggs by Ratko Mladic at the command of the camera, to probably win at some dramatisation, which turned out to be very funny. The same one, Aida Corovic, who says of the Serbian anthem, whose words do not follow the current moment. I guess she'd like us to put in some words now from modern music or those of hers, hers and her brothers, her hips and bugs, or whatever they're called, just like they say they're complaining about all the victims, but the biggest victims were Albanian, not knowing or unknowingly covering the essential historical data of the victims in these areas. Well, that's not nice, Mrs. Corovic. It's not nice or polite. Not because you shot the mural Ratko Mladic, a general whom I don't feel a great admiration for, not because I consider him personally responsible for that crime that took place in Srebrenica, but because he should have known and somehow prevented a few of the victims from putting away the famous name of a Serb soldier and military leader such as Živojin Misic, Bojovic or Stepanovic during whose war none of the more than 50,000 prisoners they had suffered. Not because of him, and not because of your cheap performance, as well as the one in the Assembly hours before that and yesterday's by Mr. Imamovic, but because you are ninillizing and defiing one of the most suffering people in the last two centuries, the Serbian people and every one of their victims. I'd ask you this way, so why don't you throw an egg or at least verbally condemn that shrimp plate of Acifu Bluti, a Nazi iron cross decorated by fascists? Why didn't some gesture at least mention the crime against the innocent Serbian life when more than 3,500 people were killed in villages in and around Srebrenica by the criminal hand of Naser Oric, and he was slaughtered and his eyes dug up by Judge Ilic in the village of Zalazje? Never in one word did you condemn or mention it, but now some mural is bothering you on the wall. But the essence of this, by street jargon, is not what you think it is. The point is to introduce a hybrid, as the ancient Greeks called it, that is, unrest or discord, in this peace a desirable society to fight to bring down this power in the upcoming elections with a fundamental goal, which is Serbia's weakness and making it easier to get to state money. Here you are using what decent and state-run people do not use, such as insulting their own state, as did Mr. Gilas and Mr. Stefanovic recently in America, of course with the help of Mr. Solak, asking for the help of Mr. Gabriel Escobar to bring them to power by some magic wand, because they could not do so by representatives of the European Parliament who had head-to-head no matter when they faced their demands. Of course, I don't forget that now in their political agenda, it's become some direction for everyone to go and complain there to America, to beg them, because before they did, Mr. Ponosh, who we now see stretches to some high state function, and when he shamelessly sided with US Ambassador Christopher Hill and said that he was brought out of retirement to remove President Vukic from the political scene and that he would not leave until he did. You were a Serb soldier, Mr. Posh. Where is the grandfather of the Serb military honor, where life is given, and the state does not betray you, that I and every decent citizen of this people should ask you? How can you gloat when, for example, we are not invited to some summit of democracy, accusing our country in the worst way? Of course, swallow the frog immediately, as the late Prime Minister Djindjic said, when you know we've been invited. Just as you swallowed the same frog when you said our country was autocratic, that it was not progressing, that it was turning back even, and the European Commission's report showed that Serbia is progressing in all fields, among other things, in the fight against corruption. That your unreasonable operation has no end, I definitely realized yesterday, and you showed when you accused President Vukic, along with distinguished President Vladimir Putin, directly leads to the collapse of the Western Balkans, which you wrote in your note "Today" by one of your favored historians. To conclude, to all of you, no matter how ideological and politically different you have now joined together to win this power, there are no victims, no justice, no Srebrenica, no anything else, you only want money and a weak Serbia so that you can play with it as much as you want. Whether the money you take from foreign agents, whether from domestic tycoons or former politicians, you are all aimed at plowing citizens' trust in the economic, social, military and any other strength of the Republic of Serbia that has begun by the arrival of our party in power and which only under its conductor stick can continue. We are a serious state-of-the-art symphony orchestra that plays the most beautiful music for its people and country, and you are the numbered tin trombone, the one whom less and less people can listen to and believe in their lies and inventions. I hope that soon in the upcoming elections, our citizens will send you to exactly what place you deserve, and that is a political pension from where you might be able to look with envy at how the SNS, led by President Alexander Vukic, continues to lead a policy aimed at a better life, lasting peace, prosperity, strengthening the country's international reputation in the way you didn't know, you didn't know, and you probably didn't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10651	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10652	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished minister with an associate, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I absolutely join the words of Mr. Ugljesa Mrdic when they say Serbia is at our heart, that we do not have a spare country. Unlike members of the former regime who have done everything to destroy our country, our economy, our army, our SNS, has taken responsibility for the quality of life of all our citizens, because as we have developed our economy, how we have employed our citizens has thus developed our citizens' awareness of environmental protection. Can't a citizen who's out of a job thinking about ecology the way he thinks about it today. I come from Sremska Mitrovica where only three years from now, the yellow-tian government has left over 4,000 citizens of Sremska Mitrovica without a job, and in Serbia 400,000 citizens have lost their jobs during the power of DS and its satellites. Of course, when we took power, we took the responsibility to make our contribution to this area and that Serbian citizens live first and foremost better, better, but to do a lot for the environment, for our very environment. I would like to commend you, dear minister, for your work in the field of environmental problems. We are aware that no government, that no mandate, no minister can solve all the problems that exist in the environment, because for years in this area has been invested in the right way, but your energy, your knowledge, with the support of the President of the Republic, with the support of the Prime Minister, with the support of our MPs, we have made one significant step in the future to solve everything that is currently current in the environment, not only in our country, but I would say in the whole environment. I want to commend your activity because you've been visiting local self-government with your work. You were recently in my town, Sremski Mitrovica, you visited Ruma, you visited Cachak, you were at a dump in Vinci, you were in Prijepolje, you always went to meet some problem to talk to citizens, you visited local self-government, you visited representatives of NGOs, and you pulled out what's best, most importantly, to get the right information to give the right answer at a given moment. We have worked here to help you with your mission and everything that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you as Minister of Government want to do. We've passed five laws here. Here, this government has been around for a little longer than a year. We passed the Climate Change Act, the Nature Protection Act, and then we confirmed the amendment to the Protocol on Substances that damage the ozone layer. Then we adopted the Annex convention on cross-border effects of industrial accidents, then the Law on Noise Protection. These two laws that we're going to pass today are really one big set of laws. So, seven laws in the field of environmental protection in a year. When we add four more laws in the field of energy, the Energy Act, the Law on the Use of Renewable Energy, the Law on Mining and Energy Efficiency, it says enough how much this Government is and how much the Assembly has been committed to solving problems in the field of ecology. Of course, we have confirmed a number of laws relating to further gasification of the Republic of Serbia which will additionally give a positive environmental effect, that we have confirmed the Law on gasification of Nis, the area of gas, then the international pipeline leading to Dimitrovgrad, then for the Kolubar County, the Mačvan County and other cities that will get gas, as energy uses it, which will greatly improve the environment, or all of those negative effects will move aside. What I also want to point out is the work of the Committee, to which I belong with great satisfaction, of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment here in the National Assembly, where, apart from a number of amendments that we have proposed on those legislative proposals that you have made, we have established one practice of going to local self-government, to talk to citizens, to talk to local self-government representatives. We had two committees outside the seat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we were in Sremska Mitrovica, we were in Cačka, and this was also transferred to the informal Green Parliament group where we visited Western Serbia and Prepolje. We were also in Novi Varosha, in Priboj, talking to representatives of local self-government, with the directors of public enterprises and where we learned from them what these problems are in local communities and together with you we want to solve and help. Also, one great benefit of the whole story is one project that is being implemented in my city, I am very proud of the fact that the city of Sremska Mitrovica, i.e. the City of Sremska Mitrovica Assembly, will be the first local self-government in our country where an informal committee Green Group is formed. This is something very good for the reasons that the committees will be able for the first time to join together in a way that connects with the environment and where there will be a greater impact of NGOs and thus contributes to solving all problems. I have indeed had the great pleasure and honour of speaking to colleagues from the province's AP Vojvodina Assembly at the beginning of last month, where they also form the Green Parliamentary Group, where 120 MPs, numbered by the province's parliament, 77 colleagues accepted the invitation and entered this group. We very quickly expect that colleagues from the province, together with us MPs in the Republic Assembly, will make one meeting, one agreement, to see what these activities are in some future period, what we as representatives of the people can do and to make our contribution in this area. How important environmental protection is best spoken for, I say, the activity of our president, Alexander Vukic, and his stay at the UN Climate Change Conference recently in Glasgow. The president presented a detailed plan and programme of what Serbia wants to do in the coming period, and in addition to his address, the president also took advantage of the opportunity to address other leaders who were present here and on the sidelines of the conference and had more significant meetings and attracted really great attention. That says enough how much our president and our state has a major impact on the international community and how much the international community sees Serbia as one factor of stability and a country to invest in or a country to co-operate with. What makes me particularly happy as a MP is the budget for the following year where there will be more than 36 billion dinars, which directly, which indirect means involved in the environment, i.e. environmental protection. On Monday, we had really one comprehensive presentation of what your Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia want to do next year and about this area. What makes me particularly happy as a citizen of Sremska Mitrovica, it is three million euros that will be invested in a recycling centre in my city, and it speaks enough with all those local self-governments where significant funds are invested as much as this government and how much your Ministry gives an accent on the environmental protection sector itself. Of course, as the country develops, as we reduce the unemployment rate, as we regulate our institutions, as we fight crime, there is an increasing attack on our president, Alexander Vukic. Not just him, but his whole family. Those people who don't have a program, who have no idea, they have nothing else to offer Serbian citizens except attacks on the president and his family and on us who protect him, to say, we defend here in the National Assembly. We will continue to do so in the next period. They wonder representatives of the yellow-tian coalition – why are SNS MPs very often talking about their president? Does someone need to ban us from talking about our president and everything he suffers on a daily basis, him and his family? How much honor can one man, one politician, call the children of his political rival? Where's the morale? Where is that responsibility to the citizens? Do we from the SNS know the names of the children of our political opponents? We don't know and we don't care. We want security for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of which foreigners they belong and that they belong to any political organisation at all. In this way they send a clear message that they have no idea, that they have no program and that other than hatred for Alexander Vukic and us from the SNS they have nothing else to offer. I am convinced that Serbia's citizens will very quickly recognize the choices that follow us who makes good and quality decisions for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and who is that Serbia is going back 10-15 years, to shut down our factories, because the only contribution of DS and its tycoons and all those who have made that coalition in the area of environmental protection is to shut down the factory. They thought if they shut down some factory, it would be nicer and cleaner air. Of course, it is a policy of the past that gives only negative results and that it is a policy that will not be supported by citizens of the Republic of Serbia and will, above all, give its trust to Alexander Vukic and us from the SNS that together with coalition partners we are leading development policy, reconciliation policy and policy that will further strengthen our country in international relations and make a certain contribution that should be positive. In Voting Day, I will, of course, support both bill proposals with one message that we must act responsibly towards the environment, because we did not inherit it from our ancestors, but we borrowed it from our descendants. If we act this way, the area will certainly be even more orderly, and we as MPs have an obligation to support such a policy, because it brings it, contributes to the development of our country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10653	Thank you. The word has Dr. Mihailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10654	When I read today that the Germans, or the Americans, have stopped the North Stream 2, I am absolutely sure that this is the time of World War III between the West and the East, and Serbia is neither in the West nor in the East, Serbia is on its way, and that is why we will find a solution in this situation. Every war lasts four years, and what happens to energy, with pandemics, with global supply chains, it's war, but not classic war, a special war. This fraction that I'm looking at, nominally through a real, or scale, that value of the situation threatens to get bigger and bigger, to undo everything we've achieved. He's threatening the inflation that's going on. So it's all happening on the outside. But with foreign policy, not us but our president, we have achieved what we have achieved in the highest degree with our foreign policy. Our problems that exist, it's normal to exist, are the result of some unresolved problems and issues on the inside. As for foreign policy, impeccable. And you know who's grateful for that. Thanks to that foreign policy, we're not gonna get gas on the stock market, we're gonna get it on contracts. And that gas will allow that threatening inflation to be stopped, that this fraction of the nominal through is actually as small as possible. The price of gas will allow even greater foreign investment. Why are strangers coming? Not only because of cheap labour, they say, although there is, but also because of the expertise of our workers. And the third reason I'm here right now is the price of gas, which will be the lowest in Europe, thanks to our foreign policy. The second threat that threatens is, gentlemen, an increase in interest. The FED, the Central American Bank, a consortium of private banks, the Central European Bank, intended to increase interest in July 2020. They're threatening to increase now. But they can't do it for themselves. But it's a threat that threatens. I now have one piece of information and I know that the citizens of Serbia have 1,200 billion in loans. A little bit, 650 are these cash loans, and housing loans. And it's normal for citizens to be worried. But we have a good National Bank of Serbia, which will regulate the reference interest rate, then these monetary parameters M1, M2 and M3, economists know what that means. So, money control on the market will be amortised. It's normal for these difficult times that I define as war to have domestic traitors. And to tell you the truth, I can't talk about domestic traitors. It's disgusting to me. They do what they do and it's normal to do. They'd like to come to power without a choice. That's impossible. I don't want to talk about them. I'm taking the opportunity that the minister is here, and now with this 2022 budget we're going to give 486 billion, eight billion more than we gave last year. Now, that infrastructure structure is traffic and municipal construction. The best way to protect the environment is to invest in municipal infrastructure. What does that mean? This means -- wastewater regulation, water extraction, so if there is no sewerage in one territory or in one part of Serbia, no water, then it is normal to endanger the environment. And you can't regulate it until you do. We will, and it seems to me that this is the intention, and that provides for this budget for 2022, that most of the funds will be allocated precisely to building infrastructure, which will certainly improve the standard of life, but will also solve these environmental problems. So, regardless of the situation is very difficult, which is implicated on the outside, I have confidence in my president and I think our foreign policy will contribute, and that is how it is, that Serbia is in the Western Balkans in the best position. These direct investments, I think, three billion and 145m euros, are 60-70% of the total investments received by the Western Balkans and all other smaller relations. And it's normal that they don't love us. When someone's making progress, he's on target and everyone wants to attack him. When we have a clear path, which way we should go, once again I say, we're not even in the east, we're on our way -- a little bit in the west, a little in the east, if necessary, to get better every day in every way. I'm convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10655	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10656	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear colleagues, today we will vote in favour of the motions of the president of the elected courts. The candidates we've been offered, they're people with experience, with knowledge. Their task is to work together as a sign of respect for the law, to judge and to do what is right, in the name of the people. And we here in the Assembly, and elsewhere, are pushing for the fight against corruption, against crime, where it has proved that both the police and the judiciary are now working more effectively in one part, because all those crimes are being solved, or the perpetrators of the crime are being found. We are today, I will now say, also having a memorial gathering on the death of our vice president, the late Muamer Zukorlic, an academic, where it has proved that our state summit respects all our people, that our state summit led by our Serbian president was present here, gave respect to the family of the deceased man, or Mr Zukorlic, who here, as vice president of the Assembly, has spread knowledge, respect and unity about us Serbs, Orthodoxs and Bosniaks. At a memorial meeting, our president said that normally we would continue to cooperate, work together with our neighbours, friends of the Islamic faith, where the president of the Ivica Dacic Assembly confirmed it. I'm sure we'll all continue to work together here, to advocate community, respect, what academic Zukorlic was doing, to continue this, and to continue with us, as well as the people who will continue in his path. One of the important things, we saw yesterday that the arrows they want to make a difference, make hate, sow hate. That's not good, and that's why we here as MPs, so we here as people who respect every man in Serbia, every citizen of Serbia, any citizen of Serbia, any religion, will continue to work, to be together, to respect and respect each other. That's the thing. It's a good thing we're doing it here and there's been a memorial gathering here in the Serbian Parliament. That's what our President Vukic said. Once again, great respect for academic Zukorlic, who has shown here in the Assembly how reconciliation and reconciliation should be done for everyone. Now I will once again say a few things that are important to us, to the citizens of Serbia. I will congratulate the victory of our team, the Serbian team that defeated Portugal. That was almost impossible. Our president was and gave support to our players, our selector, and we won. A lot of attacks before that were against President Vukic. Why? How? Where? We want, all of us who are here, both MPs and the state summit and all of us who are in some way related to the executive power, to the legislative power, we all want our Serbia to move forward, that Serbia's team into football, in handball, in volleyball, that we all promote our country in the best way Serbia and all citizens of Serbia. Well done to our football players. It's a big deal that Dragan Stojkovic Pixi is from Nis, from Passy Poljana, so all of us who are here to know that great people come from small backgrounds, that it's not just Belgrade. Once again, distinguished and respected colleagues, I will vote in favour of the proposals of these agreements, the proposals of all these laws and all these proposals that are on the agenda today. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10657	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10658	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, since this is the day to discuss amendments my speech, or my address will not be too long or it won't be usual long. First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to really congratulate the Minister on preparing all those laws and legal solutions that we adopted here in the Assembly during the previous period and on the engagement of the Ministry and Government of the Republic of Serbia to improve the environment with us. I would like to comment on something that is burdening the political public these days and which often appears in the media that controls, or is funded by Gilas and Solak. On November 15th, they presented or published an extremely large interview with Tonina Piculu on one portal, and then in the printed media. It is a Croatian politician who was even foreign minister and is now a member of the European Parliament, president of the Western Balkan Working Group at the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee. Otherwise, it is rapporteurs for Montenegro's EU parliament, and we know that the rapporteur for Serbia is Mr Vladimir Bilchik. What led me to read this interview, which was written by Mr. Picule, to the end, is the attitudes that were expressed there and the title that was very cynical. The title says – young educated legs vote against Vukic. That really intrigued me to read the whole text. In the end, it all comes down to the conclusion that the title is essentially nothing. I've looked at who the gentleman is who may be every three days or every two days present on both televisions and on several portals and in all the printed media funded by these two gentlemen, Gilas and Solak. I've seen this Tonino Picula boast that he's a participant in the Homeland War. There is one story of him where he participated in the "Storm" action, in the campaign to banish 250,000 Serbs from Croatia, which killed 2,000 people. We know that they rocketed, or bombed, a column of refugees. What's left of the houses, mostly the old sick, they killed, liquidated. This gentleman boasts of his participation, he was probably an officer since he was also a high-ranking politician in those actions. So he prides himself on participating, he says, in the Homeland War and the action "Storm". Now, you see that one of them, who participated in the persecution of Serbs, in opposition portals, in the printed media and on their televisions, has more time than anyone, has literally every other, third day, and on a very large scale. This means that those who edit these portals, or media, agree with the views of the gentleman concerned. They agree with the views of the man who participated in the exorcising of Serbs from Croatia, that their political views on the modern moment and where Serbia, as it has done in the past, are fully identical in its future. The title, repugnant and shameful, is that young and educated legs vote against Vukic in the sense that they are fleeing Serbia and leaving Serbia, is being denied primarily by British economists. In an article of February 2, 2020, a British economist performed statistics on leaving young and educated people, meaning on the migration of personnel, where Haiti, second on Venezuela, third on BiH and fourth on Croatia. Serbia is only in 10 places. So what Mr. Picula attributes to us is, in fact, more of the characteristics of the country from which he originates, from which he comes, than is characteristic and characteristic of the Republic of Serbia. Also, in this text there are some statistics, 2014, 2018, where it is said that in Serbia so many people are less, which means that people are running away and then I went to the relevant sites and took out all that data. Imagine, in Croatia, between 2014 and 2018, 150,000 people are smaller, in Serbia 148,000 people, and in Bulgaria as an EU member, there is somewhere the size of Serbia, there are 200,000 people less. So here by result is the best Serbia. Taking into account that Serbia has much more inhabitants than Croatia, the Croats have lost 3.54% of the population, Serbs 2.07% and Bulgarians 2.77%. If we also take that natural growth in Serbia is indeed weaker in this period than in Croatia and Bulgaria, then it means that the living, or those in life, have emigrated from Croatia to a much larger extent than from Serbia. What is the basis of this claim that young and educated legs are voting against Vukic, and imagine, he wrote this in an authorial article on November 15th, that the same newspaper today on three pages would develop this thesis, so you have a cover, second and third page that deals with it. They don't like it, the statistics are against them, because everyone's migrating today. All countries are affected by migration, especially Western Balkan countries and those countries that have recently joined the EU, but this is also characteristic of the EU. You can find a text dedicated to migration from Germany on Deutsche Vel website. The Germans are moving massively to the United States, Switzerland, Austria, other countries, so that it is characteristic of all countries, not only of how someone wants to make a conclusion, for Serbia and those countries in which the government allegedly did not do something that needed to be done and reportedly lives badly. Today you have a situation where Swedish doctors go to work in Norway because there are much higher salaries than in Sweden. Also, in the media of Solak and Gilas, Vladimir Bilchik, the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia, has been sharply criticised, even on two pages, for the criticism. You know, Vladimir Bilchik is guilty of not signing a letter against Serbia, or he did not sign a letter saying that Vukic and his police are guarding the mural. Of course, Tonino Picula, and some similar to him, did so, and Vladimir Bilchik did not want to, as a rapporteur for Serbia, who probably knows better than they do the situation in Serbia and around Serbia, simply did not want to sign it because he believes it is not true. The truth is, the police only played a role in the separation of those who could conflict with each other. If the police had been guarding the mural, it wouldn't have happened if on two occasions the mural had been stained. Of course, there are also those who came to clear that mural of that paint. What's most important is that the police didn't allow the contact of parties who thought differently and there was no conflict between non-invisibles. But the story that is being set, that the thesis that Aleksandar Vukic is guarding a war criminal's mural and that the police in Serbia are performing that function, is a very, very malignant thesis aimed at dispossessing the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. You know, Mr. Tonino Picula, who I mentioned, boasts that in the action "Storm", he saved a dog, that the dog had lost the boss, so he accepted it. Perhaps it was better that he saved some Serbian civilians along the way. He says that if he hadn't saved that dog, he would have experienced the fate of others. I don't know what other thoughts he's thinking, whether he's only thinking about animals or thoughts and those people who haven't made it out of their homes. What's bothering you here now? It's that our opposition, i.e. Those who think that they are god-given, that they have a deed to opposition opinion in Serbia, actually agree with this gentleman and similar to him, to the fact that all his political thesis, all of his political opinions, is through his media and gives them extraordinary space. So they're like-minded. Those who ruled Serbia from 2000 to 2012 and who ruined Serbia, they somehow imagined it was a complex of more value, that only they could be opposition to this authority and no one else and not recognise anyone else for the opposition but themselves. Also, what bothers us is to say, the term "Serbian world" is used in a very negative context, and it is said to be somewhat identical, with them a synonym for some of Serbia's imperialistic aspirations, not for Serbia's concern for Serbs living beyond its borders. But imagine that in one text of Tonino Picula in these Gilasov and Šolak media, even the opinion of EU Enlargement Commissioner Oliver Varhelji, he says – the man has been mutilating a report for Serbia to be better and to be more acceptable. Be careful, he accuses the Integration Commissioner of falsifying parts of the report for Serbia to make the report as good as possible and as high-quality as possible in Serbia, and that is said in the media of Gilas and Solak. He says Serbia is making slower progress on the European path than others, so of course it is all a matter of political will for those who decide, nothing depends on us. So, Bulgaria and Romania joined the EU overnight and no one asked if they were meeting or not. Slovenia and Croatia entered very quickly. It is the political will of those who receive someone, who will receive someone at the speed of someone. Serbia is doing everything on its part to adapt its legislative regulation and its reality, political practice to the EU, but that speed of accession does not depend on us, because this finding is very cynical. It says that Serbia has been destabilising Montenegro for two years and that it is prescribed to destabilise BiH, so it can pass on to those who think the opposite of us. It is their thesis, but does Serbia not have the right to worry about the parts of its people that are located outside Serbia's borders. Why don't they ask themselves a question – and why did the Serbian people and many other citizens of Montenegro go to protests and lithium? Because the rights of the Serbian Orthodox Church have been compromised. Why is he sneezing in BiH? Because someone is constantly trying to define, through various instruments and high representative or Constitutional Court, the rights of Republika Srpska guaranteed by the Dayton Agreement. Finally, I would like to say that those who are the opposition in this regime and think that the only real opposition to the regime, those in their criticism and spit-out regimes are simply losing sight of the line between criticism of the government and criticism of the state. All they do, and what can be read in their media and in their interaction with the European Commission or some Western world countries, is actually more spit on their own state than criticises their own country, and yet this means that they come from it – the aim justifies the means. It doesn't matter, we'll take down Serbia just to bring down Alexander Vukic. We will grant them all their wishes, give them Kosovo, give them Republika Srpska, cancel help and we will not support the Serbs in Montenegro. If we have to, we can rip Serbia apart, it doesn't matter, it's important to leave something that we will. They rule. This is based on what a man can read in their media, which he can hear from their media, the only conclusion imposed on Serbian citizens. Long live President Vukic, lived Serbia, lived the Serbian world.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10659	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10660	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear fellow Members of the People and People's MPs, a respected minister, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, definitely do not enter this respected home any important and minor legislative proposals. According to every work and every work that people do, we SNS MPs are treated with respect, as well as this legislative proposal that comes from your ministry. Apropo, as for the very legislative proposal that is before us today, make sure that we Members of the SNS in the voting day provide absolute support. However, as a simple man and as a national MP, I cannot help but wonder how difficult it is to do business on the development of Serbia within its borders on the one hand, and this legislative proposal is also on the other hand today? At the same time, how difficult is it to keep regional peace and stability on the other hand and to help and take care of the situation of the Serb people in the region, as well as of all other peoples living with it? On the third hand, how difficult is it to maintain good ties and Serbia's reputation in international circles, taking care of the reputation of Serbia in America, the Russian Federation, the EU and all over the world? Maintaining the country in such conditions, moving forward and safeguarding regional peace and stability, with full respect for all important international factors can only, if I were picturesque, say – someone who is a political wizard. But no. I'll be responsible and precise. It can only be someone who is not a politician today, but a statesman. You assume and know both you and all of Serbia, I appreciate today's Serbian President Alexander Vukic. The fact is, it seems to me, but I am sure it is one objective fact that regional political topics today often exceed all those political markets and problems within Serbia itself, but in addition to all the pressures and attacks on Serbia and the Serbian president today personally, I am not giving up on such a policy. Hence, I would like to point out what happened today, which is the invitation of Serbian President Bakir Izetbegovic, the political representative of the Bosniak people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to talk and to a meeting, even if he was in Sedrenik, as he said, around Sarajevo, even if he was in a bar. This speaks of the openness of Serbian politics, the openness and peacefulness of a policy led by today's President Aleksandar Vukic and the desire to preserve peace and stability in both Serbia and Republika Srpska, and Bosnia and Herzegovina at all costs. Of course, political opponents have reported today criticising that fact, but we are sure that it is the only policy that is right, the head of which is today's president, and we Members of the SNS followers and guardians and such policies. Peace and stability is a prerequisite for the survival of both Serbia and the Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but peace and stability are a prerequisite for survival and development of both the Serb and Bosniak people in the Balkans. I would not intend to, and this is the last thing I want, that today's memorial gathering that took place in the hall of this distinguished building is being used for the daily political purposes and I am picking up small political points, but it seems to me that a little bit of today's address has already been made by the leaders of the Justice and Reconciliation Party of Samo Zukorlic and the son of former Ambassador Muamer Zukorlic, where it is clear and explicitly said that none of the Serb leaders in Belgrade so far respected and did not understand the Bosniaks and Bosnia and Herzegovina as far as President Aleksandar Vukic understands it. It's a big message when you hear it from those who are political representatives of the Bosniak people. Now, that policy is exactly what SNS MPs are for me, and what is more important is the people in Serbia's support. Dear Minister, at the end of the vote, which is getting closer, we will support this legislative proposal, but more importantly, be sure, we will support the government's policy, whose progenitor is today's President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you. Long live Serbia and lived our people in the Balkans!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10661	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10662	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Honored Minister with Associates, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as there is today an amendment to the law that comes to us from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I believe that such an amendment will have a positive impact on the final act and the National Assembly will certainly support the draft law in the day of voting, as well as the amendments that are before us today. I think that SNS and Alexander Vukic's policy has shown that environmental protection is a high priority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also a awareness that exists between MPs and all those who support SNS policy, to make Serbia a better and better place to live. Certainly, we are aware that the topic of environmental protection is very important to us also shows the statement made by President Alexander Vukic at the summit on climate change in Glasgow. During his address, President Aleksandar Vucic said that we all agree that we must invest in climate and environmental protection, and we must all also understand that future generations must be informed about environmental protection, so as not to make the mistakes that have happened to us in previous years. You are the Minister and your Ministry have done a lot of good things for this period of a year, and they show it also implemented projects on the ground, such as cleaning up "Stavina", I would not only bother my fellow MPs, as well as cleaning up historical waste for the first time from enterprises that have gone through bankruptcy proceedings, as it was done in Nis, then the recovery of the dump in Osijek, the "Stavina" dump, as I said, but also many projects that were done in the territory of Mionica. That it is very important for us to invest in environmental protection also shows the draft budget for 2022, where the largest amount of money for environmental protection has been allocated in the past ten years, and this shows that we are exactly following the serious and responsible policy of Alexander Vukic, but also those things that are listed in Prime Minister Brnabic's exposé, that environmental protection is one of the three main priorities of the future government. But as my colleagues have spoken here in the past few hours, I would also like to dedicate part of my address to the hysteria that has taken place in the last few days when we talk about the Murala Ratko Mladic. We were all witnessing everything that was going on in the territory of Vračar City Municipality and total hysteria among those people who by who knows which time they decided to spit on Serbia, spit on the Serbian people and spit on all the things that we stand for as SNS. You saw only those people who were directly directed against Serbia and the Serbian people at the beginning of that hysteria and in the coming days. You have activist Aida Ćorovic, who was also an activist of the Civil League, from which today Vesna Pesic, who also has only the most brutal insults at the expense of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, but also Aida Ćorovic was a member of the DS from 2014 to 2016, and has shared these parliamentary benches with today's Vice-President of the Freedom and Justice Party, Marinik Tepic, who directly advocated the adoption of the Srebrenica genocide declaration. We can't ignore these things. We must not forget that the president of the same party, Dragan Gilas, spoke during his visit to the "News" in Podgorica about the simple issue of genocide being over, that we must accept this situation and that he respects the International Court's decision. The international court in The Hague made different decisions, but the difference was not the Serb side's order. You have the largest number of convicted people coming from Serbia, the convictions containing the largest number of years of prisons directed towards the generals who came from Serbia to the Serbian people, and then you have on the other hand activists who today in the city centre in Vrakar speak all against the Serb people and are directly accusing us of the worst crimes that occurred during the civil war between 1991 and 1995. You have people who are in opposition parties today who directly advocate that the Srebrenica genocide issue is over, that it is definitely and that we have to admit it. You have them among the representatives of the green movement, which is Dobrica Veselinović and We do not strangle Belgrade, which they said we must accept the fact that such a, or that the issue of genocide is no longer in question. But you also have statements from Mr Radovanovic, who said at the same rally that they were in Prijedor and Banja Luka that genocide had been committed. I would say that it is not entirely true, because if it were not for the Serbian army in Prijedor and Banja Luka, today the Croatian border would be on the territory of today's Banja Luka, and it would not be behind Prijedor, so it is entirely false. I would easily leave enough time for my colleagues to debate, I would just like to say that we need to seriously and rationally think about things when we talk about protecting the Serbian state and Serbian interests and not allow representatives of opposition parties to spit on Serbia and the Serbian people for who knows which way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10663	Thank you. Last reported for this debate, MP Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10664	Thank you, Chairman. It is very difficult to wait for the time to speak, given the large number of MPs reporting constantly, which is good for this debate, but at the very beginning to say a few words to say about the amendment itself that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted. I believe that colleague Gojko Palalic has well caught the essence of this amendment and that this period of 60 days from the day of entry into force will give sufficient space to all entities to adapt to new regulations that will be adopted. However, like everyone else, I have to take advantage of it and if we are reluctant to do so this time to say some things that have particularly irritated me, and they are related to yesterday, they also have to do with today, which is a discussion of my colleagues Imamovic, who spoke yesterday, to say in a certain way that is not suitable for the spirit of debate and discussion in this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No one in this assembly has insulted members of other nations, especially the Bosniaks. I can say freely, since I've lived my whole life with Bosniaks, to hold them as little water on my palm, but dialogue, communication, co-existence, friendship, common torments are a two-way street, not a one-way street. It is not friendship, co-operation and the relationship of mutual trust that we must create, the way that you come to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and here point your finger at a whole nation and one of the countries in which you live, in which you receive a salary, in which you are elected as a MP and to irritate all those who, especially in the 1990s, lost their loved ones, lost parts of their bodies, had to be displaced, to become refugees, to start life from the beginning, and among other things, to start life here in the Republic of Serbia. I would not have been irritated by anything special, but rather at a memorial about the death of Muamer Zukorlic, who represented in a certain way the exact opposite principle of work and did not take out topics that are painful, did not talk about war topics here, did not talk about something that would create dissension between the two peoples, tried to talk about things that are everyday problems, which mean trust. It is very important, today the messages we heard from President Vukic and President Dacic, and especially from the son of Muamer Zukorlic, and I personally find it very difficult to see Imamovic today at the memorial ceremony of Muamer Zukorlic. It says a lot about these people as much as they have been scarred against their opponents about their own to tell a political group that is related to the Bosniak electoral body and how great this aversion is. But let everyone wear their cross and my torment, I had a need to say a few things about all this stuff that many colleagues have been saying, as far as this mural is concerned in His street on Vrakar, General Ratko Mladić. It's a very difficult and awkward subject, and maybe for the first time I'm going to say something about it, I don't think I've ever talked about it, because I think I'm talking about the war events that we all have, looking at the truth about what's been going on. I wouldn't want to offend the other side in any way, even though I have crystal clear views. I avoided talking about it, but I'm going to have to say a few things, since that discussion went that way yesterday just to say that Bosniaks are not safe in Serbia and what it's like to be a Bosniak in Serbia, as he said yesterday. I wouldn't be particularly irritated if things were viewed in a slightly wider context. I don't think that the Serbs in terms of making the murals of General Ratko Mladic at Vračar are some big thing, or I don't think the real Serbs and the real patriots are doing it, they were in the right place during the war conflicts, they were fighting for the Serbian people, they were creating Republika Srpska, and they weren't drawing graphs and making stories, novels, and so on and glorics. So that kind of story, the question that came from in the first place, and who's trying to do it now, especially if we take the fact, and I've been asking myself that this mural has been sitting on his street for nine, ten months now. So, who's come up with all this now? Let's put it aside, the mural of General Ratko Mladic, who is in The Hague and does not mind a Gotovina who walks free and works in Croatia, who has banished and killed hundreds of Serbs by his command, and has driven thousands into the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't bother one Naser Oric who works normally, expands and glurifies him as a hero in Sarajevo. I ask the question, fellow Imamovic, what it's like to be a Serb in Sarajevo where you pass Naser Oric alive and healthy who has a business in Sarajevo, which is a building wall and which everyone sees as a hero. Or how the Serb is in Kosovo and Metohija when we know that Haradinaj is not processed for anything. Haradinaj, who says the 2025 referendum will kidnap part of Serbia's, Kosovo and Metohija's heart, will join Albania. It is not disputed that they dream of their dream, they say they will also norm it, that they will check it at the referendum, but of course, for us Serbs is controversial and that we are talking about the truth, that we are talking about our dream, that we are talking about our unity as a people, regardless of what we respect all the limits, which is peace, tolerance, recognition, international recognised borders of all in the region, something that is the imperative of the Serbian state and in one way it has not affected that these things change. President Alexander Vukic points out every day. We could hear today at the memorial ceremony and that President Aleksandar Vukic respected what the late Zukorlic asked for Bosnia and Herzegovina to support himself, the way he is and for Serbia to be the supporter, to tell all and joint institutions and co-operation with the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in a certain way to be the obligation of all. That's exactly how Serbia's leadership is headed with President Vukic every day. Last night, in an interview at Cyrillic, we could hear a thousand times a message. It's really annoying. I'm irritated by the other thing. Since these projects, managers tasked with presenting themselves through various projects, making an ugly and bad picture of Serbia, want to blacken not only the Republic of Serbia, but also Republika Srpska, the Republika Srpska Army, which defended its people with honor, and together with the people created Republika Srpska. Now, that's the Republika Srpska Army. And, this army of Republika Srpska, here in Krajina, my Gradišci, Banja Luka, was not supported by any soldier from Serbia, where our people, honest hosts, peasants, workers, intellectuals, went into the trench, took arms and fought not to experience what we experienced during World War II. We're the culprits now, while those who command are on the other side, so what's that supposed to mean? That we were in conflict with ourselves. What does that mean? Do we need Nasera Orlic to forget everything he's done to criminals in the Kravicas? It's no problem that he's walking around Sarajevo, celebrating him with a hero, but the problem is that Ratko Mladic's mural is on Negosje's street. I agree that we don't need to build peace at this time, trust, etc., to draw any murals, but look at this graduation, the construction that in the media, Solak, Gilas, makes it so that Serbia should be ashamed. Well, we see how many they... I'm reading "Kurir" today, and I'm calling on them here, and what we can't do at this concert, media, informative, just to tell the media to see, so we can't see this story right now that I'm talking about, we can't hear the truth. We should listen there that in Serbia there are criminals and that Serbia is a criminal country and that the kind of story, content, we absorb every day, that they kill us so much in the notion that one mural is a problem, and it is not a problem that Gotovina is walking around Croatia, which in an interview first when he left The Hague, and behind it stood the complete Republic of Croatia with state leadership. All the living have stood behind him. When he came out, he said - I can't wait to get to Livno. In Livn we defended Croatia and a direct man says that the Croatian Army was in BiH and nothing at all. Then it's worth the paradigm here what the UN tribunal ruled, and it's not worth the paradigm, the truth, and it was only true in the 1990s. Gentlemen, go to the edges of Podrinje and where the Serbs live, and see how many Serbian mothers are wrapped in black, how many graves there are. So ask yourself why, if you've organized these protests for one day, why didn't you go to Sarajevo the next day and stop Naser Oric on the street and ask him about these things? No, I don't. For you, Naser Oric is the face and you watch on your media how to do an interview with him. What can't we see? Well, we can't see on these media, this is what Solak has, says in Serbia "N1 Serbia", "New S", "Newsmax Adria", "Today", "Nova", "N1 info", "New RS", "Today RS". In Croatia, all of this is owned by Šolak, Gilas Company - "New TV", "N1 Croatia", Dnevnik HR". In Bosnia and Herzegovina: "New BiH", "N1 BiH". Bulgaria not to read, is not in the context of the story. In Montenegro: "New M", "TV News", "News Montenegro". Replacement father-in-law, KRIK, BIRN, CINS, “Istinomer”, “Cenzolovka”, NIN, “Time Serbia”, “National Croatia”, “Magazine”. Then we should not be surprised that in all these media outlets are the same news, same headlines, because editorial policy is the center of power of political and political wing precisely in the ownership structure... who wants to do this to Serbia. Serbia is a special country, a proud country, which fought only for its own. We do not allow anyone to humiliate us, to put us in the same basket as those who committed crimes, and they were not in co-ordination with the leadership of the Republika Srpska Army. We do not allow these things in such a way that the truth in Serbia is pushed through these media tycoons who are ready for anything, and that they eventually humiliate the Republic of Serbia just to come to power. We won't let that happen. We will fight for the truth, fight for the truth and for the war of the 1990s, for our identity, for strong Serbia, and for the strong Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10665	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will also decide on the bill in the day of the vote. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, November 17th, 2021, starting at 5:30 p.m. as a day for voting on agenda items of the sixth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I thank the representatives of the ministry and everyone who participated in the debate. We have a vote at the scheduled time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-17-0.u10666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 170 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Before deciding, that's why we were a little late, I'd like you to wait another ten seconds, because I wanted to particularly welcome the delegation present here today and who are our guests. I'm sure you'll welcome them. I am taking this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to invite you to welcome the St. Petersburg delegation. Let me particularly welcome Governor of St. Petersburg Alexander Dimitrievich Beglov, President of the St. Petersburg Assembly of Alexander Belski, Vice-President of the Russian Duma Alexander Babako and the bishop, that is, the Episcopal of Kronstanti Nazari. [[Applause]] They are visiting the city of Belgrade. [[Applause]] I would also particularly like to welcome Belgrade Mayor Zoran Radojicic, the president of Belgrade's Assembly Nikola Nikodijevic and Belgrade Mayor Goran Vesic. Let me thank our guests again and greet them. [[Applause]] I told them they'd be extremely pleasant and warmly welcomed. I don't think they expected it to be like that. Let me finally repeat one more time and say - Long live a Serbian-Russian friendship! It's a better save. [[Applause]] We're going to vote. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products. I remind you that the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular. Since an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to the 66th National MP Gojko Palalic, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put the draft law on biocidal products in general to vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -181, for -178, did not vote - three MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed the Bill on Biocidal Products. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the proposals for the laws of the following items of the agenda, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only the draft laws in general. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Second item of the agenda - I put the draft law amending the law on integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 181, for - 181. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Environmental Contamination. Third item of the agenda - I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on business societies, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of -181, for - 180, did not vote - one MP. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Company Act. As we now move on to a decision on the proposals of the law on the confirmation of international agreements, or agreements, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 of point 6 of the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Fourth item of the agenda - I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Amending of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Norway, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 181, for - 181 MP. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The fifth item of the agenda - I am putting to the vote the bill on confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the protection of disasters in the Western Balkans, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 181, for - 181 MP. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The sixth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement on mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 181, for – 181. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(2), paragraphs 12 and 13. The Serbian Constitution, the National Assembly, elects the presidents of both judges and judges by majority vote and decides on the termination of the public prosecutor's office. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The seventh item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Kursumlia, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 181, for – 181. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The eighth point of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 181, for – 181. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The ninth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the choice of a judge elected for the first time in office, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 181, for – 181. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, congratulate the elected bearers on the selection and to wish them a lot of success in the work. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motions for decisions and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The tenth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the selection of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 180, for – 179, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Eleventh point of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Securities Commission as a whole. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 180, for – 180. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, congratulate the elected bearers on the selection and to wish them a lot of success in the work. Before the session is concluded, let me just inform you that I have scheduled two sessions for Tuesday 23 November, at 10.00 hours, the budget and other laws and other international agreements, a total of 17 points of the agenda, that I am not burdening you, and the eighth session of the Second Regular Session for Thursday, 25th November, with the agenda point – draft law on referendum and the People's Initiative. It is necessary that we be able to finish our constitutional change by the end of our term. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021. Thank you.
