ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8690	I thank Dr. Orlic. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I will ask a few questions, as it is now a very current story about environmental protection, an environment that tomorrow gives future to all our young people to stay, the Ministry of Environment and Ecology. A concrete question, since I spoke of it several times in previous sessions and in the previous term, I spoke and asked for problems to be solved in the Electronic Industry in Nis, which, in the past century, had close to 30,000 workers. Over 70 acres of surface takes over the EI complex in Nis. My question is specifically related, because there are a lot of radioactive thunderstorms in the EI Nis complex itself, and in Nis itself, and there are them in Svrlig, there are also in Alexinac and in some other places, because it is a big problem, I ask again - when will the funds be provided to disarm these radioactive thunderbolts, to put it out of function and normally to do it for the health of all citizens in Nisav County and beyond, if there are any more? One of the important things that concerns people living in the territory of the city of Nis, in the territory of the Nis district, is, I mention again, and I'm talking about EI, because there were a lot of people there, over 20,000 people worked in that factory, and there were 28 thousand workers, we had a lot of flammable matter. In particular, a bottle of dangerous gases, the most dangerous are xylan and phosphine, which are self-inflammable and explosive, and there are two bottles that are located right in the electronic industry, and we all know that these bottles have to be serviced at least once every six months, so that it is checked, that there is no explosion. Otherwise, since 1999, it's not done. My question – when will these bottles with these flammable means move from there, to evacuate and not come into a situation tomorrow so as not to have any side effects, which would be fatal for people who work here, or for all people in the territory of the city of Nis? One more thing. During the time the Electronic Industry in Nis was doing a galvanization. This wastewater and now exists in those pools that are underground, which are located on the upper parts, and below are the reni wells, below is Nisha. Therefore, my question – when will it be eliminated and evacuated, so that we do not get into a situation where water pollution and poisoning occur? This isn't that I want to scare someone. I just want it to be done as soon as possible, that the competent ministry, that the agency that needs to do so, to provide the means to evacuate from the electronics industry, to move, to get it done as soon as possible, so that we don't get into an unwanted situation. Otherwise, more than 3,000 workers are currently working in that part of the Electronic Industry. I think it's very important. We need to do this as soon as possible without repeating ourselves, all of this needs to be done for the protection of people, because in that part of the waterway of the Nisha River, people plant gardens and do a lot of other things that are important to the lives of all Nish citizens. My question is directed to the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Agency, and I expect it to be resolved in co-operation with the people who run Nis. I know that once there was an allocation, that something had to be done, but it wasn't done. I think it is necessary to enter into the process of changing the law, specifically related to these radioactive thunderheads, because these radioactive thunderbolts are located on parts of residential buildings, residential buildings, they are also in parts of the electronic industry and some other objects that are in bankruptcy proceedings, which are not privatised, which do not have their own owner, and the law says where the radioactive lightninghead is located is obliged to remove that lightninghead, i.e. to remove it. It requires a lot of resources. It would be important to do so as soon as possible, to get into the business of changing that law. From this place, I appeal once again and I urge everyone in charge to settle this for the benefit of citizens living in the territory of Nisavsky County, and normally and beyond. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8691	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is held by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Stefan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8692	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs, I would like to ask the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Business and the Ministry of Finance. The issues are related to the area of social entrepreneurship, and when can we expect the adoption of the Social Entrepreneurship Act, and how will the state encourage the launch of social enterprises and the employment of the most vulnerable categories of the population? How important is the adoption of the Social Entrepreneurship Act for our country that we of the PUPS have been talking for a decade, more precisely since 2011, when the PUPS insisted that we get such a law that will help the most vulnerable and vulnerable categories of the population to get a job faster and simpler to deal with the issue of their existence permanently. Social entrepreneurship belongs to an area of public interest and its role is to create new opportunities to address social, economic and other problems that are more difficult to employ and their communities. The harder employable persons are the ones who need our help and support for a independent and productive life in order to overcome social, material and life difficulties, which are workable. The number of people is best talked about only the city of Belgrade, where about 100,000 people with disabilities live and as many social welfare recipients. Social entrepreneurship is part of the social economy, and this is the kind of entrepreneurship where social problems are solved by the use of entrepreneurial principles. We of the PUPS Group "Tri P" believe that this is also the most effective channel to solve the most important existential problems of all vulnerable minority groups of our society. Also, social entrepreneurship is an innovative way for people to solve different economic, educational, health and environmental problems in the community through their work of association and using a sustainable business model. The social enterprise is a business that operates with the idea that through the profits it makes through the sale of products or services, it will complete a clear social mission. There are several directions in which social entrepreneurship can be developed – in terms of socially solid enterprises, socially innovative enterprises and protection workshops, as well as in the green economy and energy sector. Social enterprises play an extremely important social role in resolving social issues, in addition to the importance they have for developing Serbia's economy. In addition to legal regulation, the role of the state in the development of social entrepreneurship and the reduction of certain state resources, such as abandoned factories, abandoned offices, abandoned agricultural land that no one uses and that it is left to the social entrepreneurship sector. Measures such as the provision of initial financial resources and incentives are also important. The position of our parliamentary group is that the existing Social Card Act cannot solve a number of problems for poor citizens. Budgetary social protection funds are large, but they are still limited because the number of users is high. That is why we think that the solution is precisely in the development of social entrepreneurship and that we are taking advantage of positive experiences from the EU. In fact, in the territory of 27 EU member states in the area of social entrepreneurship and social economy, 14.5 million people work, making up as many as 6.5% of the working population. Their contribution to the gross social product is 11%, each fourth newly established company in the EU falls under the social category. The state must stimulate these companies, regardless of whether their founder is the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, a company or an association of citizens to employ these more difficult employees by reducing their VAT, taxes and contributions to employees, making such businesses more competitive on the market. In addition to the legislation that would regulate the work of social enterprises, there is also a need for stimulating financial resources in order for such businesses to survive alongside those whose main objective is exclusively profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8693	Thank you, Mr. Krkobic. The word is Nina Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8694	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to refer my question today to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. "Serbian Railways" have a long tradition, the first modern railway was built in 1884 on the Belgrade-Nish route. The town of Nis is next to Belgrade and today is the largest rail node with five railway lines, and there are two pan-European corridors passing through, and this is Corridor 10 with its arms. Serbia and the Moravska Valley are an ideal bond between the east and the west, i.e. between Greece and Asia Minor with the rest of Europe as the easiest pass. Serbia unfortunately left rail traffic for decades, and the reasons were different. One of them is certainly the weariness of railway infrastructure. But it should not be forgotten that the railway along the highways is an important traffic resource for Serbia, which is a transit country and can significantly benefit from its traffic corridors, both directly and indirectly. In order for the railroad to find its place again, it must be modernised. The railway to Nis, via Pirot, to the Bulgarian border is one-way, in one part passes through Nis and divides the city into two parts, leaving the two municipalities on one side and the other three on the other side. There are about 50 railway crossings, which slows down traffic, both rail and roadway, and especially the security of dozens of victims have been recorded so far. For the past twenty years, it's been working on moving the railroad, especially on land expropriation operations, which I know is near the end, but the track is still where it was and still is not known when it will be moved, due to the constant shift in the deadlines of the crossings. The problem is trying to solve all previous authorities in the town of Nis, although it is a project of national importance. To remind me that Serbia's president has also announced the start of works on the reconstruction and modernisation of the Niš-Presevo railway section, which confirms that the Low Railway Node is the strongest project on the master's board. The end of the bypass, i.e. the removal of the railway from the city centre of Nis, would improve the conditions of life of citizens, especially traffic safety, while the quality and speed of transport would be increased, and there would be a shortened time of travel. The bill is planned over 22km and should be electrified. True, moving the railway requires a lot of destruction both of residential and business facilities, as well as other existing infrastructures, and because of the long-term delay and movement of the deadlines for the completion of the Niš bypass, which is necessary for this large city and traffic centre, I would like to refer the question to the Ministry of Transport - when is the start of the work to move the existing railway and to build a railway bypass around Nis, for what are certain funds in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and for this year? In this regard, the second question would be - when is the complete completion of this project planned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8695	Thank you, Mrs. Pavicevic. The word is Alexander Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8696	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, today I have two parts in my question and I hope the Honorable Chairman, that I will not exceed the time, given that it takes a long time for these topics to be adequately shared and processed with the citizens. The first issue concerns the security of President Alexander Vukic and the protection of his human rights. Today, a total of seven days of brutal campaign against Alexander Vukic and his family in which certain media, under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, are taking place as an axiom and as the main weapon in this account, are using a false statement from people suspected of the most monstrous crimes. Namely, Veljko Belivuk and Miljkovic's false testimony from prisons where President Aleksandar Vukic, together with Aleksandra Vulin and Darko Glisic, is used in some context of their mob clan, only to destabilise our country and try to cause some unrest in which Dragan Gilas would see his chance and take a new chance for himself to get his hands on the authorities and continue with his senseless wealth. I ask the question – do the structures of security, but all the authorities take all this into account and do they take care of the protection of Alexander Vukic and his family in particular, but also of Danil Vukic, who is in the strictest way connected by this false statement? I ask that question, and this is not the first time we've discussed this in plenary, but right now we really have to focus on these topics, because this is the Satanization and criminalization of President Alexander Vukic, and all with the goal of not giving God, if something happens to him or his family citizens, they come into a situation to say -- well, that's what was expected. I'm also asking a question of respect for their human rights, because for seven days now we've had some shows, signs in the media, under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, where the false testimony of these mobsters and monsters who have committed the worst possible crimes, where they've been cut down, they've been transporting people, grinding them into machines, taking them as the truth. I point out in particular that I am talking about human rights for the simple reason that we have witnessed in the past few days that in these same media under the control of Dragan Gilas, we are talking about whether the human rights of these suspects are being respected. In fact, a part of the conversation appeared in the public, a transcript that clearly shows their lawyer Lazarevic is urging them to do and dictate what to do and how all falsely to accuse President Aleksandr Vukic and to come into a paradoxical situation. First, Lazarevic says it is not true and none of it happened, and then in the same day, they say they are being threatened by human rights, because the conversation has been tapped or that the information has already been delivered. Now I wonder if someone in our country will finally protect human rights and President Alexander Vukic and his family, as they advocate to protect the human rights of these monsters. My second question, the respected chairman, can refer to you, Mr. Odalovic or representatives of the Serbian Parliament's professional service. In fact, today, but also in recent days, the current topic is genocide in Srebrenica, so-called Srebrenica. genocide, something that didn't happen, and we are aware of the pressure of adopting various resolutions in the surrounding countries is causing pressure on our country right at the moment that we finally reached some economic peak when our country is finally independent and strong, stable and when we progress in every respect and sense. The adoption of such resolutions has led to a special campaign and pressure on Alexander Vukic, but also on our country. When countries in our environment do that, it's not unexpected or strange, because, you know, no one answers strong, powerful and advanced Serbia. However, when people from our country do so, autoskillers who in this way want to clear our country, who tend to come to power or return to power, then it causes some other form and another review. In particular, my request and request, the President-in-Office, was trying on the Serbian Parliament site to find a document that she submitted among other things and Marinika Tepic, a proposal for a resolution on the Srebrenica genocide. This proposal was submitted in 2016 and I needed more time to find it in the archives on the site. Why is this so important? Dear People's MPs, primarily citizens of Serbia, have witnessed in recent weeks and months that Marinika Tepic is trying to deceive us all, agreeing and that something she has done is a little ominous. In fact, she now declares that this motion for a resolution on genocide requires the responsibility of individuals, not the people. She's so insolent in her presentation that she even talks to the press, but also to interested citizens that we were only able to see the first page. So, if we hadn't been able to see all the things in the explanation. For the public, for all the citizens, what's behind this is even worse. So there's 11 points. At the first point, it is said - the most strongly condemned genocide in Srebrenica, therefore, and it has an axiom, as they do in the Gilas media, is condemned to any denial of this genocide. Dear People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, this is identical to those resolutions adopted during this period in the surrounding countries. This is identical to what we discussed yesterday in Republika Srpska and BiH, to arrest anyone who says that Srebrenica was not a genocide and was not. What is particularly worrying is that on many occasions the term “people, ” the responsibility of individuals is nowhere to be found here. Especially, which I end up with, I apologize to the chairman, at point 11, please pay attention to this, taking the view that violations of human and minority rights can be early indicators of the possibility of new genocides. So in this way, Marinika Tepic is now making an accent that in some future period, I do not know what minority rights are, and you will agree with me that the rights of minorities in our country are never greater, Serbia will again commit some genocide. To the very end, I will conclude with this, I ask you to multiply this to the MPs, to divide each of us, so that each of us has this in his hands and can show citizens what the values are, as Serbia and Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas and Boris Tadic sees today. For the very end, I have to tell them, but also some people in the region, in Europe, in the world, to pay attention to three facts and that these three facts have to be reconciled as hard as it is for them. Kosovo was Serbia, in Srebrenica was not genocide, Serbia is moving forward. Thank you, and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8697	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. As far as your last question, given that it was addressed to me, to the National Assembly website, in the section of the archives of acts that were handed over to the National Assembly at any time, so acts in the procedure, I think they've remained in question. When you look at the archives, and I'm saying this to explain how Serbian citizens can come up with that document that you were talking about, but also any other document. When you look at the previous meeting, the one from 2016 to 2020, you can even search the list by name and last name of the applicant, all the acts that are submitted at any time will be found. So, including that motion for a resolution that you're now talking about in the complete text, including the very content that you've been talking about and where all of these things you've mentioned are really located. Any citizen of this country can thus come to the document itself, and, of course, any MP, if he wishes, can address the General Secretariat and a copy in paper form will be delivered to him. So, if your question was whether all the traces of the proceedings were permanently recorded and recorded, certainly procedures that were not proud of those who took them, be sure not to worry, everything is permanently recorded and exposed to our people's insight. It's on the National Assembly site. As none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, report to the floor, we continue to work. According to Articles 27, 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt the laws of today's procedure. We move on to a unique search on the 3rd item of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister, Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Daniel Vazura, State Secretary and Tatjana Stanic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single review of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Decision of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe No 1/2021 amending Annex 4 to the Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe (CEFTA 2006), laying down the Protocol on the definition of "produced products" and the method of administrative co-operation referred to in Articles 14 and 3 and repealing and replacing the Decision of the Joint Committee on Free Trade in Central Europe. 3/2013 and 3/2015 Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Tatjana Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8698	Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you are now facing a bill confirming the decision of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe No. 1/2001, amending Annex 4 to the Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe, CEFTA 2006, which lays down the Protocol on the definition of "produced products" and the method of administrative co-operation referred to in Articles 14 and 3 and repealing and replacing the Decision of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe No. 3/2013 and 3/2015 This law actually confirms the decision of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe No. 1/2001, amending Annex 4 to the Agreement, laying down the Protocol on the definition of the concept of "origin products" and the method of administrative co-operation referred to in Article 14(1) and (3) and repealing and replacing the decisions of the Joint Committee, hereinafter referred to as Decision CEFTA 3K. The text of Decision CEFTA 3K was also accepted at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, held on 16 June 2021. With this decision adopted on 21 June 2021 in Skopje in the presence of all CEFTA representatives. The reasons for the adoption of this Decision shall be reflected above all in the implementation of a new set of rules on the origin of goods contained in the Annex to this Decision, in the Annex to this Decision, referred to in the letter - where Article 1 provides that the provisions of the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin, etc., are to be applied for the purpose of implementing the Agreement. The PEM Convention, and provides for a dynamic link to the PEM Convention, always calling for the last version in force, while Article 2 provides for rules on the origin of goods that are alternatively applied on a bilateral and transitional basis in addition to the applicable rules contained in the PEM Convention until the completion and entry into force of the revised PEM Convention. With regard to preferential trade, the rules to be applied alternatively by this agreement cover to the greatest extent the interests of our country, as well as the interests of all our trade partners in the free trade zone. Therefore, this is of multiple economic importance to our economy, above all in terms of its competitiveness and equating operating conditions on the international market. Dear MPs, I am sure that today, as always, we will have a constructive debate and I hope that in the voting day, you will support the proposed legislative solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8699	I thank the minister. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a brief notice. Today during 13:30 we expect to take the oath of the Republic Public Prosecutor, a break from 14:00 to 1600 hours after which is the part of the session when we ask questions to the Government, after 19.00 hours we expect a vote, so that you can plan your commitments today. Does the word want representatives of the committees in charge? (Yes) There is a word in front of the Finance Committee, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8700	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, honourable minister, fellow MPs, at the 39th session of 22 July of this year, we had the opportunity to hear from the Ministry of Finance's representative, who deals with these agreements, that in fact the introduction of a new set of rules here today is on the agenda, but the economic operators will have the opportunity to declare for now which rules, on the origin of goods, will be declared when crossing across borders and when they have certain documentation. What is important is that more changes in the SAA are expected to be made to comply with this CEFTA agreement. It should be said that CEFTA is a trade agreement that was established in 1992 between seven countries. What is most important is that these countries that are now an integral part of this agreement are practically countries that are most important, and Serbia is one of the most important countries that create this regional trade policy. And most importantly, it is that this new proposal for rules of origin of products is actually part of which Serbia participated in the creation of this protocol and change, which is very important, because we have implemented our state interests, which give us greater competitiveness of our products, in these protocols, but that is, of course, also for those other signatories of this agreement. So, what we're saying today, we had the same opportunity, and when it comes to the EFTA agreement last week, to hear, also to harmonize those protocols, and we think it's a great opportunity for us to really work together with both the East and the West in an adequate way, with all the economic parts of the world for which our goods find their ultimate destination and profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8701	I would like to thank the chairman of the Finance Committee. Since we no longer have a committee representative, we are moving on to the presidents of the parliamentary groups. The word has the vice president of the National Assembly, academician Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8702	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the chairman, the Honorable Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, the subject of origin of the product through this agreement from another point of view we have already treated about ten days ago. At the time, I actually had a discussion in which I stressed the importance of the originality of the origin of the product, pointing out that it was not a simple technical question, but that actually insisting on the origin of the product was more than just a procedural question regarding trade. So it's about the intensity that those countries who want to profile themselves with serious commitment to their own products, that is to dedicate the originality of the product, because everything in the world we see is either original or plagiarized, or it's something that's authentic or it's a transcription, whether it's products, whether it's immaterial things. Today we also have a very current topic of a variety of forms of inflation in value aspects, including knowledge and education, so today and when it comes to diplomacy and when it comes to different certificates, academic recognitions, professional recognitions, is the key difference whether it's authentic or it's a fake, whether it's something original or it's a transcript. So in this respect, this topic is still important and what it deserves is to point out that our country, which thanks God, is located in a geographical position that is treated by the categorization of the quality of space for life by the first category. The world is in a way divided by this categorization into five categories and you have category A or first category, which is rated excellent in terms of living conditions. When you take into account both climate and all other conditions, the quality of the country, the various circumstances affecting life, actually our country and this wider space are in the first category, which means the space ideal for life. Among other things, the quality of the country is such that in that space it is only a question of whether you want to work and whether you want to use the basic knowledge to get your effects. In other words, in our space, in the space of our lives it is possible to produce very many original, authentic products, or products that can have origin in the space we actually live in. Of course, in the context of our topic, the term “original” concerns products. However, the term ‘original’ is more important than the products themselves. You know how much you can hear about origin when it comes to different forms of identity, including national identity, how important the origin is, how important ethnogenesis is. They're not the only ones. They're not the only ones. They're not the ones. In fact, that's where you'll find two approaches. When you have something to be proud of, you potentiate the origin. When you have a grandfather, a great-grandfather or anyone in the genealogy of your past, or of your background, which you're proud of, and proud of originality, quality, then you point out that your genealogy was, that was, that was, achieved, had these qualities, played such a role in the past, in the history of your people, for certain values, etc., then be proud of it. If you don't have it or if you don't have something to be proud of, then you're not potential origin, you're trying to make up for it with something else. So if you have the original in your hands, you're not afraid to show it. If you don't have the original in your hands, but you have the fake, you want it to pass without showing, whether it's counterfeit money, whether it's a forged document or a passport to cross the border. When someone crosses the border with a forged passport, they rush across the border, as soon as they get through control, because if that official who checks the authenticity of the passport sees more there's a risk of finding a fake. So whoever doesn't have the original he's making a fuss, he wants it out of sight, wants it done in the dark. What's the difference between the light's ambience and the dark's ambience is, in fact, what always suits thieves is dark, because that's when their fingers operate best. When you turn on the light, they're nice and keep their fingers where they're supposed to be. So the symbol of light is actually a symbol of transparency, of visibility. The idea of transparency is the idea of visibility, to see that we don't have room for thieves, for crooks, for those who actually want to do dishonest acts. So, who's in the interest of visibility? Visibility is in the interest of the original. Who's in the interest of dark or less visibility? Well, forgeries. Every counterfeit is in the interest of less visibility. Why do we have a difference in quality, for example, various bodies, including national congregations or parliaments? Why, among other things, the quality of this Parliament is in its visibility through direct transmission, e.g. on national television? Just because everything's visible, there's nothing to hide. You can't intervene at the debates of the MPs, so to say, we're going to let this go, we're not going to let this go, because the law is regulated, and it's one of the currents of the country's cultural civilization, political fluids, that we have the visibility of the National Assembly, the work of the National Assembly, the discussion of the MPs through direct television transmission. So these are actually all indicators of how important originality is, how important authenticity is and how important it is to work on the environment so that counterfeits don't get their support. The difference between the originals and counterfeits is like the difference between fruit or vegetable culture and weeds in nature, i.e. agriculture. For example, in order to have a certain agricultural culture, you cannot expect it to be self-involved. You must try to plant it, and then you must try to water it, to maintain it, to protect it from the weeds, etc. So the original requires effort, the original doesn't grow by itself, he requires commitment, he's culture. Here, you see, yesterday we also treated the Law on Culture, and it's interesting that we have the notion of culture in agriculture, although at first sight culture should not have anything to do with agriculture, but it has to do with that Latin meaning of culture – to edit it, because agricultural well deserves that status if it's cultured. Unless it's cultured, it's left to single plants, i.e. The weed, it's rude. You feel the same way with people, therefore, with people's lives. So, in order for a man to remain cultural, he must be committed to himself, he must have a culture of hygiene, a culture of life, a culture of nutrition, a culture of self-relationship, a family. In fact, the vertical culture, the pillar around which culture is held, is a responsibility, whether it's a human culture or a agricultural culture. So, no responsibility, no culture, and no responsibility without effort. So, responsibility or cultivation is actually like walking up the hill. To climb the hill you need effort, you need to invest strength, energy, to spend calories of muscle, and to get off just let go and roll, you don't need strength, effort, energy to roll, to get down. So when you walk it's much easier for you to go down than along, but only when you remember that the higher you go down the hill or down, you make a bigger debt to return to. Or spending money, so it's a lot easier to spend than to make money. If you're OD'd, then you're actually just increasing your debt, you're going to go to a greater minus, and of course it's going to be harder for you later. As easy as it was for you to land, and then it's hard to make up for that descent, i.e. to climb, equally if you've overdosed in spending, spent more than you've earned, then the accumulation of that debt and the increase in that minus will actually be a burden to you. It's the same as the water or the upstream swimming. Downriver everyone knows how to swim. Lowerly release plastic bottles, they go alone, it's great and they all know they're swimming, and God knows they're just real swimmers upstream, just professional swimmers, just healthy swimmers, just strong swimmers, symbolic and metaphysicalally speaking – just idealists. Only the idealists swim upriver, the rest of them give in. That's why in man you have this conflict of soul and body, conflict of divine and conflict of animal. So, you have a constant conflict inside a man, because giving in to an animal means giving in to hedonism, giving in to pleasure, giving in to what you seek passions, impulses, needs, physiology, biology, etc. And to remain human, to be upright, to be noble, to have character, to preserve the character of humanity, it won't just, it can't just let go. You must have effort, spiritual effort, mental effort, ritualism, you must have effort to think, the effort to crystallize, the effort to differentiate human and nonhuman within yourself. In fact, man has both energy and other energy in him and it is real and cannot be eliminated either by this earthly or physical, nor by man only by soul, nor by body alone. If it's just a body, or if we only raise its body dimension, it becomes an animal, and today what makes us the ideology of materialism, makes us animals in the image of a man, who actually have a goal, that they act by the laws of the forest, by the laws of the animal, they eat the weaker, they eat the smaller ones. It's actually when the animal aspect of a man is dissipated, there's actually a soul, an ethics, an ontological essence, a humanity, that depth of human, what every man has, to the extent that he doesn't poison it with his, let's say, inhuman behavior, and it's only important who goes beyond half. If the soul and the spirit of man exceed the half, then the man is a man, then out of him is a fly of nobleness. He's got earthly, animal, physical, but it's under control and that's how it's supposed to be. But if we allow it to overcome it biologically, then man becomes more animals than man, then it's human, it's noble, it's ontologically defeated, and it's actually what you can see in humans today. No one is an angel or a devil, nor can one hundred percent beat this animal, nor can one hundred percent defeat this divine. But what matters is what's crucial and to the extent that one of these is crucial and superior, that's what we see in a man, with certain people, with us or with the people around us. So, this is exactly the fight between the originals and the forgeries and the way it takes place in man, it also takes place in the products of man, that is, in the works of man. Even though we don't have an implicit or explicit relationship with the subject, but we are the people's MPs here and we are updating certain topics that are affected by the people, which are affecting our citizens. I can't help but look back on the subject of the new market these days. In fact, it's three teachers, three teachers, three lecturers who have been explicitly excluded from working relations with the University of New Market State. So it's another event that unfortunately burdens this higher school facility. You know it's not the first time we've talked about this, but these days this has escalated because it's actually three members of a teaching-science council, or a collective of the State University in Novi Pazar, which can be checked through the records for everything that's been going on over the past six months through the rector selection procedure. So these are three professors, three teachers who opposed the current leadership in Novi Pazar, particularly the former rector who tried to get his third term. They dared to be free citizens, teachers, teachers, as guaranteed by the Constitution and the law, and they opposed another term of office of the former or former rector Kostic. They were very persistent in this, here, you can also check this in the Committee on Education and the Ministry of Education, so the Ministry of Education, that they referred more letters to this problem and to the many abuses that occur at the State University in Novi Pazar, including the attempt to avoid the law and that the current oligarchy that has already been in place since it was founded for almost 15-16 years, remains at the head of the constitution. Thanks to their argument, the ministry respected their remarks and in fact banned or disabled the former rector Kostic from being re-elected. However, they had, of course, their own friend whom they chose to be the new rector, but who belonged to the same oligarchy and who was tasked with punishing these people. These people, therefore, I know that it is hard for you to believe that in higher education, at a state university whose founder is a government, an institution that works or should operate under all the provisions of the Law on Higher Education, where there is a certain control and possibility of control, etc., that in this way open, cruel, brutal, brazen, brazen and reckless punishment of people because they have disrupted the idyll of the one-witness that has ruled at that university for 15 years. So you just don't believe that it's possible that these people who I believe are from the very establishment of a university of workers at that university, employees, that because they've opposed that ruling structure at the university, they're actually shut down. So, I've said some things, we'll say things in the future, but it's really a university that functions like a cult, strictly closed, people keep quiet, under fear of exclusion, and in fact these three professors are shut down to teach everyone else a lesson so they never think about standing up to each other again. So it's a state university that's just called and is the most private university in this country, you can check it out. There you will find, in fact, the only fast track to advance with members of the family of the first and long-term rector of the Cemal Dolician, who has provided for all of his children a fast lane of calling, a fast lane of schooling, a fast positioning tape, so for them there is only this fast tape and he is still the ruler of that University. While it was not legally possible, he became a rector after he could no longer be, he invented the position of director of the university, you know, so he only added this "di" to the rector and became director of the University and with that position he still rules the university today and deploys those servants. It's interesting, say, another piece of information, so the university that's already 15, 16 years old since the beginning, you know, now that it's been a rector's choice, you're from the whole collective, listen to this information, please, you only had one candidate who's met the formal conditions for the rector. What kind of university has only one candidate who can meet the conditions for this recession? You know the reason only one candidate didn't have those conditions? The first is the reason why members of that collective are not allowed to advance, they are not allowed to become regular professors, to meet the conditions that they can apply tomorrow for management, and the second reason is to tighten conditions, additional conditions. For example, one of the conditions is that the rector's candidate was given all the titles at that university. Imagine nonsense, if you get a call at another university, you can't be a candidate or any of the calling, etc. So I'm opening this question, of course we can't absorb it now, but the public deserves to know, we're going to insist that this group of oligarchy has to be exposed, these people have to be protected in the 21st century, in this country it can't be normal for people to get fired and get kicked out of work because they have a different opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8703	I thank Vice President Zukorlic. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, National Assembly Vice-President Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8704	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister with Associates, on today's agenda we have a decision supplementing the CEFTA agreement. For Serbia, CEFTA is also important because of its accession to the European Union and also to the World Trade Organisation. Unique Serbia recognises the importance CEFTA has and further enhances trade co-operation in the region. We are also told by research that thanks to CEFTA, trade co-operation is more 100% than it was before this agreement. Since all barriers are not fully removed, the CEFTA is constantly working to eliminate and improve better co-operation, and the additional impulse of trade co-operation is given by the Western Balkan leader's political vision. Yesterday and today, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic is visiting northern Macedonia, where he participates in the Economic Forum for Regional Co-operation under an initiative for co-operation still known as Mini Schengen, as today we expect this initiative to get a new name. Yesterday, the president announced that three very important agreements would be signed today, one of which concerns further lifting of the barrier and the further accelerated flow of goods between Serbia, northern Macedonia and Albania, which is certainly important for the CEFTA's continued functioning. Otherwise, the plan to come up in the next two years is that there are no borders between these three countries and that trucks can freely pass, as well as cars, that there will be a growing trade between the three countries, that will reduce operational costs, so that we can save millions of euros. Otherwise, as many as 217 companies coming from Serbia participate in this economic forum, and this says that our businessmen are interested in doing business in one of these regional trade arrangements, or in one of these large markets. In addition to President Aleksandar Vukic, the summit is attended by the prime ministers from Northern Macedonia and Albania. Otherwise, Mini Schengen as a joint project leads to deeper integration of the Balkans and with such co-operation the region is approaching the EU, as each of these countries is waiting for EU accession, strengthening regional co-operation, improving the business climate, attracting foreign investment, and of course what is important, good neighbourly relations are being nurtured. Especially in this crisis period, regional co-operation has proved to be extremely important in the common struggle to save people's lives and in those most difficult moments is the strongest support of the neighbours, and it is as in real life for you, always the first neighbor closer to one generation, the most born one, because he is there, the first to come out when there is a problem, and so Serbia has shown itself as, freely as, I can say, a brother neighbour, because at times when the whole world fought for vaccines Serbia and the Serbian people has shown solidarity by separating vaccines for the countries of the region and that support has been more important but, God, and faster than the support provided through the Kovaks system. Let me go back to today's topic, and that's CEFTA. What we need to think about in the future, Minister, is how to take advantage of the digital transformation that is our inevitable and what is the future and what the data tells us, i.e. indicators, that in CEFTA markets there is three times the percentage of small and medium-sized enterprises that sell their goods via the internet compared to a European firm and therefore to companies like CEFTA regional market can be a bounceboard. In practice, this means that small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with internet sales in Serbia will have a bigger market than seven million will have about twenty million consumers. Otherwise, the electronic trade of the region together today generates about $1 billion of which Serbian participation is the largest, but still three times smaller, so there is one proposal for your Ministry, since you are the Ministry of Trade and Tourism to see and direct some research into CEFTA markets to those small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with Internet sales, to give them some guidance and to help them make these data much better and much bigger in the next period. We must not forget that at one point the CEFTA Agreement was brought into question when Kosovo introduced fees on Serbian goods, which was 2018, and when the non-existent Republic of Kosovo increased the tax on goods coming from Serbia to as much as 100%. This was a clear violation of the CEFTA Agreement and of the spirit of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and I must say that it was one precedent where one rule was applicable to all partners in CEFTA, and other rules were applicable to so-called ‘CEFTA’. institutions in Kosovo and they, despite clear remarks from the international community, continued their policies. Such a policy was not applied even by countries that were at war and did not resort to such drastic measures as the temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija then applied to goods coming from Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Last month, the Western Balkan leader's summit, where the prime minister of the so-called Republic of Kosovo, Albin Kurti proposed the signing of a new Central European Free Trade Agreement that would be called SEFTA instead of CEFTA, because it believes the current approach to regional co-operation is not good and that Serbia's refusal to recognise Kosovo's independence is a serious obstacle to regional co-operation. I don't think what I said is funny would be sad, because besides the representatives of Kosovo Albanians ending the history of our sacredness in Kosovo, taking over those, inventing genocides from what century, they now think that they are the ones who need to create and run international politics on behalf of all the Balkan countries, so they suggest that the name CEFTA be changed to SEFTA. But I think it's them, either pretending to be silly or constantly pushing their fingers around Serbia with a variety of provocations, but they'll have to understand that Serbia is for regional co-operation, that it is for reconciliation in the region, but that we will never recognise independent Kosovo, because Kosovo is a separate part of the Republic of Serbia and no matter how much pressure our country suffers today and at these moments these pressures come from the international community, but unfortunately from the domestic field we know and repeat that Kosovo is an inalienable part of our country. We are also witnessing that individual politicians, in the absence of their political programmes, are not choosing the means to attack held institutions and all those who do not think like them, so Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as the President of Unity Serbia Dragan Markovic Palma, and one and the other are politicians, but above all people who advocate and work to improve not only living conditions but also good neighbourly relations in the region. I will remind you that Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma, three years ago, visited the then mayor of Zagreb, Mr. Bandic, but also the mayor of Ljubljana, Mr. Jankovic, and this very interstate visit, not only to the president of the state, but also to the mayor and president of the local parliaments, should be more common because this is how the people connects, co-operation is established, and in the end we can apply everything that the CEFTA Agreement allows us to do. We don't have to live in the past. We should look to the future and, what is important to every man, he lives in Croatia, Serbia, Albania or Northern Macedonia, is to work, have the opportunity to earn and place his goods on the largest market. I would only touch the green corridors that have been set up to facilitate trade in goods in the region, also in the framework of CEFTA, in conditions of significantly slowed transport due to additional measures to protect borders and population from pandemics. They were applied to several border crossings, but are now extended to everything, even to the spring. This is good because it saves businesses and entrepreneurs time and costs. We know how long it is to wait at the border crossings with the EU and it would be good if such green corridors could be implemented at the border crossings with Europe. That would further speed up traffic, especially freight. We are witnessing that when we pass those columns of trucks that look immeasurable, I don't know how long they wait, after a few hours, that would certainly be good, and I would like to commend the development of the CEFTA Action Plan, which is to be implemented by the end of 2024 and refers to the common regional market. There are planned activities on the free flow of goods, services, capital, people, alignment with EU investment policy, standards and monitoring of best international practice. It is also good for the promotion of our region to investors, as well as the integration of the Western Balkans into the pan-European digital market. You mentioned this at the beginning of your presentation, Madam Minister and I hope that in the next three years we will see concrete results for the benefit of our businesses and citizens, to help our region catch up with the adoption of European standards and the approximation of our market to the European market. Certainly, the formation of this common market, the regional market, will contribute to putting our region on a map of active destinations for global investors and a good example where there is no help, and I constantly cite a local self-government, which is Jagodina, not because the president of JS comes from Jagodina, but is a really good example of how a local self-government can become attractive to foreign investors, but also as a tourist destination, not waiting for government help, but a good management, a good local policy-making opens the way. Here already in Jagodina there are 12 foreign investors and this is a good message for other local self-governments to organise, but also by applying the CEFTA Action Plan in the future, many local self-government, of course with the help of the state, will get new investors. I would owe more, except that Unique Serbia supports strengthening and expanding the Serbian market, strengthening Serbia's and Serbia's producers and farmers and businessmen, strengthening international co-operation, because we know that this is a guarantee of our country's success and stability, and that means a safe future for all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8705	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Assembly. Minister Tatjana Matic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8706	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable Members, given that you mentioned here, above all, the digitisation of electronic trade and the need to further improve it, as well as all its potentials, I would just like to remind myself that in the previous period, and when I say in the previous period, I mean the period from 2019 to 2020, the Resort Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications significantly improved the rules in this area, above all by adopting a new Law on Trade and Change and the Supplements of the Law on Electronic Trade. Also, in collaboration with USAID, we have developed an action plan to strengthen electronic trade in the Republic of Serbia, as well as a guide for consumers in electronic trade, as well as a guide for electronic traders that is available and can be found on the website of our ministry. What I would also like to point out is that the resolution ministry is also conducting a media campaign that points to the advantages of electronic trade. I am completely in agreement, as you said, the transition to electronic trade has shown an incredibly favourable impact on income growth in small and medium-sized enterprises. This merchant guide is precisely for those who are just planning to deal with electronic trade, but also with existing business entities that plan to reorient to electronic business or simply introduce a new type of digital business. What is important is that, practically, the pandemic has shown the importance of the power and importance of electronic trade and many businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, have just succeeded in pandemic conditions to survive thanks to the developed electronic trade. In that sense, the companies that sell via the Internet are, of course, far more advantageous than classical traders and the expected growth of E-comerca over the past few years and all the efforts and challenges that we as a ministry have faced when we were talking about improving e-commerce practically in the time of the pandemic have just experienced a revolution and electronic trade has actually reached a kind of boom in this pandemic. And that unfortunate circumstance, well, it had something good as its result. I would say that when we talk about the territory of the Republic of Serbia and when we talk about the development of our electronic trade, the biggest challenge was customer mistrust. That was actually the biggest problem, and then not enough, let's say, the information of the traders themselves, and that's what we were working on. So we've tried and we believe that we've been able to overcome the prejudices that exist with regard to electronic trade, that it's not selective enough against customers, that it doesn't provide a real and adequate purchase. We have also overcome this through a constant education and work with, above all, traders, small and medium-sized enterprises and education, and we also contribute to the development of electronic trade in the Republic of Serbia, but I must say that, in fact, the pandemic Kovida-19 has contributed most to people's understanding of the advantages and to making sure that, above all, I think of the customers, their rights are even greater and better protected when they buy electronics. I would just end up saying that interesting statistics that say that in Serbia, for example, the number of realized electronic transactions with seven million in 2019 jumped to 14.3 million in 2020, while the value of electronic transactions from 17.8 billion dinars increased to 32.38 billion dinars in 2020, and the number of virtual sales places, which was 1.139 at the end of 2019, was total virtual places at the end of 2020. So, all this data is that, above all, new legal solutions, but also different promotional campaigns and educational aspects, have contributed to the development of electronic trade in the Republic of Serbia. Once again, I have to point out, next to the RES, the partners are USAID, and also the Association, that is, the Association of the Republic of Serbia's E-Comerc, which is also doing a great job. We agree that the common regional market will give everyone an even greater chance of both electronic trade and other areas of economic co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8707	I thank the Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. The word has the mandated representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Jasmina Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8708	Thank you, Vice President Kovac. Dear Minister Matic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, we here today, as we heard at the beginning of the session and heard from the minister, are changing one part of the CEFTA agreement relating to the definition of "Produced by Origin", or adapting it to standards of the pan-European Convention. By creating a free trade zone, as early as 2006, through the CEFTA agreement, signatories countries were then defined as the region's common economic policy. The agreement then defined obligations and rules relating to trade in all goods, and the general rule was to abolish customs duties and other duties on exports and imports of goods between countries in the region. The agreement also defined the co-operation of the customs administration, the rules of competition and state aid were established, as well as the rule of protection, and Annex 4 defined operational rules on the origin of goods. Since the CEFTA Joint Committee has recently made a decision to amend Annex 4 and Serbia as a member of CEFTA, it is required to respect the decisions of the Joint Committee and that is why this law is before us today. The amendments are reviewed in the implementation of a new set of rules on the origin of goods, which is always in line with the latest version of the pan-European Mediterranean Convention. The changes we are talking about today concern the origin of goods, and they provide for the possibility of applying full culmination of origin, i.e. addition of origin with countries and territories with which this is possible. That's good, because consumer habits change. They are looking for specific products with unusual characteristics and you often have to import one or more raw materials to raise the level of the finished product. With these amendments to the law for one product you can use, or combine raw materials of different origin, to achieve the desired goal and meet customer needs. The new rules, i.e. amendments, also apply to the abolition of the prohibition, vomiting and exemption from customs duty, and also to the possibility of electronic issue and acceptance of proof of origin. All these are new and expedient circumstances, both for our producers and for our exporters. The intention to apply the rules of the Pan-European Convention on the Origin of Goods has shown all the EFTA countries, the EU and Turkey as one of the strongest economies in Europe. The same provisions of the Pan-European Convention have been adopted as a member of the EFTA two weeks ago here in parliament, and have referred to the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the other four members of the European Free Trade Association. I was then talking about the importance of the label of geographical origin of the product, because they are as such and more competitive, and some examples say that the products after the protection of its origin are even up to three times more expensive on the market. Consumers are becoming increasingly interested in quality, looking for some different, specific products and are therefore ready to pay even higher prices. In CEFTA, Serbia exports 30% of food products and this is the largest market for food producers after the EU, where we export as much as 60% of our products. The CEFTA agreement, which defines a single free trade zone in Southeast Europe, allows its non-tariff members to trade without customs on the market of more than 30 million inhabitants and all members are obliged to respect and comply with the rules. But in practice, it's not always like that. When there is a breach of these rules, most often the Mixed Committee, as CEFTA's central authority, is unable to resolve these disputes. The problem is also that certain rules are not prescribed in the right way, i.e. there are no sanctions for breach of this Agreement. All we can think of is a 100% Kosovo taxi of imports of goods from Serbia and other outside customs barriers, which were in effect for more than a year, when Serbia lost more than a million euros a day. And then there was an expression of all the weaknesses of CEFTE. The mixed committee is often unable to find a solution to the disputed cases related to these barriers, and so far no extracurricular problem has been solved at CEFTE level, but only bilaterally, between party members in the dispute. While Minister of Trade Rasim Ljajic pointed out that, despite the general position in the region, CEFTA has achieved a great deal since its formation in 2006 in strengthening trade relations between Member States, it has reached its maximum and needs to take a step further in its functioning and upgrades. All this time, since the establishment of the CEFTA agreement, there have been many different initiatives on regional integration. One such is Mini Schengen, as a joint initiative by Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia from 2019, which, unlike CEFTA, refers to four European freedoms, which are -- free flow of people, goods, services and capital. However this initiative will be called in the future, and most likely, according to the announcements, today in Skopje, it will be given a new name, which is less important than its content. I will only list some examples of the benefits of such initiatives. It has been calculated that waiting for a goods truck at the border in the region loses 26m hours a year, and in money, the region loses 800m euros due to various barriers to trade. Removing these barriers and facilitating trade increases trade with each individual country of the region. It should be borne in mind that the region is the second foreign trade partner with which Serbia is making the largest trade since the EU, as I have already stated. Mini Shengen's initiative is designed to strengthen economic ties in this region, and we will see this confirmation as early as today, when three important agreements for Serbia will be signed in Skopje, and one of them concerns the further abolition of trade barriers, namely the acceleration of the flow of goods between Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. It's even the idea to make fast lanes at the border crossings, especially goods trucks. The second agreement is a joint prevention of action and assistance in the event of natural disasters and a third to try to lift work permits, i.e. the establishment of a free labour market in the three countries -- Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. This way of connecting also increases the space for greater investment of Serbia's economy in other countries of the region. It will be easier to attract foreign investors, especially as investors are always more profitable to operate on a market of 18 million people than in smaller and smaller markets. Also, this initiative provides a basis for improving infrastructure, as the EU will be easier to finance joint than individual projects. What is also important is that these types of co-operation not only economically but also politically contribute significantly to the stability of the entire region, which sends a message to foreign investors when they identify where to invest their funds. Mini Shengen's initiative, however it will be called in the future, can also be of great importance at the time of the corona resolution, because the pandemic is still, unfortunately, not finished. In particular, during this health crisis, regional integration and solidarity proved to be extremely important in the common struggle to save human lives. This has also been seen in the case of solidarity that Serbia has shown by extracting vaccines for countries in the region. Unfortunately, the fight against the pandemic is not yet over, and this example should be a cause for strengthening co-operation in the field of immunisation of the entire region's population. I think these are sufficient reasons why other countries of the region should apply similar agreements that have a vision of common political and economic space throughout the Western Balkans through the single market. I hope that both Montenegro and BiH will join this initiative very quickly. Connecting the region and strengthening regional co-operation through such initiatives as mini Schengen should not be seen as a substitute for the process of European integration or an alternative to the EU, because it is not. All the countries signatories of this initiative already have free trade agreements under the CEFTA, which is supported by the EU. Efforts should be made to improve the functioning and expansion of the CEFTA mandate. Regional co-operation should be seen as a significant process for the progress of the Western Balkans and the European path in general. Politically, full EU membership is a foreign policy priority for every Western Balkan country, regardless of all current EU weaknesses. While believing that the agreement ahead will contribute to the upgrade and improvement of the functioning of CEFTA, the SDPS parliamentary group will support the proposal to amend Annex 4 of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, which concerns the establishment of a Protocol on the definition of "produced products". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8709	Thank you. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the People's Parliament, Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8710	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group has held that the importance of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amendment to Annex 4 of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, so-called CEFTA 2006, which, as we have heard, establishes a protocol on the definition of the concept of ‘original products’ and methods of administrative co-operation can be understood differently. On the one hand, as a constant adaptation of the CEFTA agreement to the economically changed environment of member states and, on the other hand, the adaptation of the CEFTA agreement to wider regional, European and global economic and political circumstances. Of course, among other things, by developing a common regional market. The CEFTA 2006 agreement is designed as the preparation of the Member States for a joint market, both the EU and the global market, and we have heard little chronologically about it, so I would like to point out that CEFTA has preceded a series of regional associations through which the previous three decades... Over the past 30 years, various free trade platforms have been formed, which were practically preparations for CEFTA. Remembrances for the sake of the signing of the Visegrad Declaration back in 1991, and in 1992 a co-operation platform was agreed on precisely the matter of free trade between Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. Guided by these experiences, in June 2001, under the auspices of the Southeast European Stability Pact, Western Balkan countries signed a Memorandum of Understanding, Liberalisation and Trade Facilitation. The political and economic initiatives indeed confirm the decision by which Western Balkan leaders adopted a single Action Plan for the common regional market at the meeting that took place here on 10 November 2020 at a meeting that took place several times and significant, the Berlin Process. As is known, this plan covers a regional trade area based on four freedoms from digitisation, very important today, innovation, investment and industrial development. The meeting at the end of last year, in November 2020, was actually a continuation of the activities that took place earlier. In particular, at the Third Berlin Process Summit, which took place in Paris, on 4 July in particular. The meeting stressed the importance of economic co-operation, clearly stated that the future of the Western Balkans lies in European integration, in extremely important economic co-operation within the region. Regional co-operation was then highlighted as a key element in the economic growth of the Western Balkans, as stronger links between the population are fostering cross-border and inter-state initiatives, as well as joint investments and includes a very large market, here today several times mentioned, almost 20 million people. A 10-year foreign trade exchange balance between Serbia and the countries covered by the CEFTA agreement, if we look at the period from 2007 to 2017, confirms that the total exchange between these countries has increased by 28%, that exports have increased by 52%, and that Serbia's annual growth in CEFTA exports is also 5.7% on average. Serbia annually exports about $2.5 billion worth of goods under the CEFTA and makes an annual surplus of about two billion. As is known, the main markets are Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Northern Macedonia. Since I mention that CEFTA 2006, in particular on 19 November 2006, was signed a Treaty establishing this so-called The new transformed Central-European Free Trade Zone - CEFTA 2006 which created a framework for an improved trade exchange between the countries of the region and CEFTA 2006 replaces the network of the previous 32 free trade agreements with a single multilateral agreement. It is very clear that in 2006 CEFTA is applied until the moment of our country's EU accession, and alongside it must not be disturbed with the mind or the importance of several more regional initiatives with CEFTA complementary initiatives, mechanisms, such as the Council on Regional Co-operation, the Energy Community Agreement, the Agreement on the Regional Transport Community and a number of other international agreements, or regional agreements and initiatives covering different aspects of co-operation. Already in the preamble itself, CEFTA is stressed, it is said that CEFTA contributes to the processes of European integration for each member. At the same time, there is a concrete reference to the relevant EU rules in certain provisions. For example, on competition issues, bringing technical regulation into line with EU standards, etc. This Agreement also points to the relevant definitions, rules and procedures mentioned earlier by the World Trade Organisation in many provisions. As we know, our country Serbia is not yet a member of the WTO. This solution in CEFTA speeds up Serbia's integration processes into international economic flows, which we certainly support. For Serbia, membership in CEFTA 2006 is important because, in economic exchange with CEFTA Member States, there is a continuing surplus, but in addition to the significant potential of improving co-operation between these countries, in the last 15 years, Member States have been confronted, as we have just heard, which is a fact, with the more difficult circumstances most often included in the so-called group. Not customs barriers. That's what we heard in the previous discussion. Over the past few years, because of the communication problem, CEFTA 2006 has raised the question of whether it is necessary to completely amend or significantly revise CEFTA 2006. In practice, it has been shown that the Agreement does not contain clear mechanisms for resolving Member States' economic conflicts and there are no sanctions for breach of this Agreement. It is particularly highlighted as a problem, for example, that the time of the phytosanitary services at the border crossings is different, which is why a lot of time is wasted, comes into the situation that goods cannot be shaded on the same day, etc. Research has shown, for example, that in 2019, at border crossings due to phytosanitary confirmations waited on average for 11 hours and that, as we heard, millions of hours of work were lost. In the framework of CEFTA 2006, some non-tariff barriers, as I mentioned, have been introduced by the parties to prevent the export of certain products from partner countries. For example, Serbia's companies often make numerous objections to the measures that Northern Macedonia introduces each year to reduce imports of flour from Serbia or the measures that Bosnia and Herzegovina is introducing to increase the level of excise duties for large beer producers from Serbia, etc. For example, if all the CEFTA member states and WTO, as unfortunately not, were today simply not asked to resolve these disputes. In fact, there is a very effective mechanism in the WTO itself to resolve these disputes. As is known, when I mention the WTO, as SVM advocates WTO membership and EU membership, WTO membership is a precondition for EU membership and without a certain time spent in the WTO, the candidate country for EU membership cannot close the negotiating chapter 30 - economic relations with abroad or, if we are talking about a new revised methodology today, it is not easy to close cluster six, which, in addition to Chapter 30, also makes Chapter 31, with which we also do not stand a wonderful, external security and defence policy. In addition to certain problems, the importance of CEFTA 2006 was confirmed in the difficult circumstances of the Kovid-19 pandemic and we heard little about it in previous exhibitions. In fact, at the very beginning of the outbreak of the pandemic somewhere early last year, so-called pandemics were established. green corridors or these lanes to prevent shortages of basic goods and medical materials and to relieve disturbances in transport and trade, and we all remember very well the measure of restrictions on movement around the world, and especially with us. So in 2020, last year in March, if we count the time since it was introduced, half a million, 500 thousand trucks used the possibility of using green corridors. Currently, at a monthly level on average, about 61,000 trucks use green crossings and about 13,000 priority crossings. Given the success of this initiative, members agreed on the need to expand the green corridors to all border crossings leading to the region, including three railway border crossings, in order to really reduce the waiting time at the crossings, reduce the overall total costs and simply speed up and control. In the previous 15 years, it has been a step in removing the problems identified in the process of implementing the CEFTA Agreement, and in this respect, today's proposal for a law confirming the Amending Decision of Annex 4 laying down the Protocol on the definition of the concept of ‘original products’ and the method of administrative co-operation. So this is also part of this process of removing obstacles to the implementation of the agreement. During 2011, 2013 and 2015, changes in additional protocols were initiated, annexes were changed with an additional protocol, and today's debate does not represent the first amendment of Annex 4 since it took place already in 2013 and 2015. In 2018, the National Assembly ratified Additional Protocol 5 with the Agreement facilitating trade in amendments to the CEFTA Joint Committee Decision concerning Protocol A on the definition of the concept of ‘produced products’ and methods of administrative co-operation. I would also remind myself that after the entry into force of the CEFTA in 2006, it opened up the possibility for these countries, the Western Balkan countries to join the system of diagonal cumulation of origin with both the EFTA and the Mediterranean countries. The PEM Convention, mentioned by the prominent minister in its opening statement, came into force on 1 January 2012, providing unique rules on origin and the possibility of regional communication of origin of products in Europe. Then, gradually, this Convention extends to the Mediterranean countries, first and foremost, North Africa, participating in the Barcelona process. All this leads to the Euro-Mediterranean Union, but also to us significant Southeast European countries, all of us who participate in the process of stabilising EU accession. Later, countries from the so-called so-called country joined this. The Eastern Partnership, Ukraine and Georgia. The PEM Convention aims to replace the existing Protocols on the Origin of All Free Trade Agreements between the Contracting Parties with a single legal instrument which lays down rules of origin and accession of the PEM Convention create additional conditions for the liberalisation of trade between the Signatory States, broader access to markets and economic and political integration. The liberalisation of the international trade regime, but the liberalisation of the product origin regime, has a significant impact on the creation of regional production chains. The liberalisation of the regime, the rules on the origin of products, contribute more to the growth of international trade in Europe, especially after 2012, than to approved trade preferences. Since these proposed amendments, specifically this proposal for a law on Serbia, create new opportunities for the Republic of Serbia, new economic opportunities, an increase in the number of products that can be exported both to the EU market and to the EFTA countries and partners themselves in CEFTA in 2006, our Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will certainly support these proposals and will vote for it in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8711	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8712	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will take the opportunity to begin by pointing out that the MEP Group will today support the Proposal for a Law confirming the Decision of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe Annex 4 of this Agreement, which sets out the Protocol on the definition of the concept of "produced" and methods of administrative co-operation, and in the coming minutes I will try to make the first decision of our parliamentary group and explain it. The topic that we are talking about today is a very important concept of regional economic integration, which is to bring together several countries whose main objective and primary motive is to liberalise mutual trade and regulate trade with third countries. In this way, there is a greater volume of exchanges of goods between markets that are related to such contracts. The creation of a regional economic zone helps everyone in the region to realise and strengthen its economic potential. The Republic of Serbia has more concluded and confirmed international bilateral and multilateral free trade agreements. A Central European Free Trade Agreement known as CEFTA was founded by Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia in Krakow in 1992. These three countries, as well as most of its later members, have left the CEFTU itself by accession to the EU, and these countries are, in principle, mainly Southeast European countries today. Today, the CEFTU is currently made up of Albania, BiH, Northern Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, Moldova and UNMIK on behalf of KIM. By creating a Western Balkan free trade zone, they opt for economic and economic development by showing that they are able to lead a common economic policy and assume commitment and responsibility for the future of the entire region, further stressing the European perspective of the European region and the desire to join the EU. The CEFTA agreement is very important for the reasons why it allows trade under the same conditions for all producers, a larger market for trade and investment is being opened and the possibility to go to the European market is increasing according to preferential treatment. Some of the most significant advantages of CEFTE are precisely economic co-operation, also liberalisation of trade in services, diagonal cumulation of the origin of goods, removal of technical barriers and transparency. The reasons for confirming this decision concern, above all, the need to implement a new set of rules on the origin of goods subject to trade within the CEFTA Agreement. It is about alternative rules on the origin of goods based, revised in the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean rules on the origin of goods known as the PEM Convention. The aim of this Convention is to provide identical rules on the origin of products, all with the aim of ensuring the same standards in trade relations between the countries themselves. The term ‘original products’ refers to products which are wholly manufactured in one country which may also refer to certain materials obtained in that country, but provided that these materials have undergone sufficient processing in a given country. The market covered by the CEFTA agreement covers a population of about 30 million people. It is common to all these countries that it is precisely small businesses, whose products are not sufficiently competitive. Members mainly export agricultural and food products, and imports produce high-grade processing and machinery. The foreign trade exchange of our country in total, looking at the last ten years, was the largest with the countries that make up the EU and it accounted for 61.4% of the total exchange. The other most important partners are the CEFTE countries and we mainly exported agricultural products, electric machines, appliances, road vehicles and drinks to them. Looking individually at countries as the largest foreign trade surplus Serbia has achieved precisely with BiH, Montenegro and Northern Macedonia. The Western Balkans is an area that is extremely interesting, attractive and suitable for foreign investment and investment. In addition to the importance of establishing a common legal framework, which in some ways exists, it is necessary to work precisely on the political stability of the entire region. Unfortunately, we often face a number of examples that just deny it. One of these is Pristina's example, which, by its unilaterally introduced taxes, of 100% on imports of Serbian goods, closed the way for economic communication, making huge material damage to the entire region, but also a breach of trust, as well as political relations within the region itself. Despite complaints from foreign officials, representatives of many states and international organisations, to lift taxes, Pristina held the same, full year and a half until April 1st, 2020. The introduction of a 10% tax, and shortly thereafter of 100% on goods exported to the KIM area, hit the most, precisely, producers, exporters of consumer goods, food, agricultural and wood industries. Especially those from southern Serbia, and it certainly affected the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. The introduction of the tax hit citizens the most because of the shortages of certain products, their purchases, but also the producers themselves. I think the question that is just being asked -- how is it possible that we in the 21st century can classify either flour or oil or some other product by ethnicity? In the process of regional economic initiatives, such as CEFTA, the economy should take place without customs duty, without taxis, without restrictions, without borders, or at least in the most favourable and with as few restrictions as possible, which is certainly multiple and useful for all parties. I would also take the opportunity to remind that Serbia is one of the founders of the UN and many other international organisations. Serbia is a signator of many bilateral and multilateral agreements, which it has accepted exactly the standards of these organisations. Our path to the EU is our country's foreign policy goal. It is true that we have been betrayed many times, when it comes to international law and justice and experienced double arches, but it remains the right to believe in justice, as a supreme value that will be equal to and for great, but also for us small nations and peoples. Another significant step towards joint co-operation is Mini Schengen, a joint initiative by Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia, from 2019, relating to the free flow of goods, capital, people and services, which are precisely four basic principles of the EU single market. The idea is that this joint three-nation project leads to greater and stronger integration in the Balkans, making the region closer to the EU. The emphasis is on economic co-operation, strengthening our economies, mutual co-operation, as well as joint appearances in third markets. Thanks to Mini Shengen, trade co-operation of signatories countries has been improved, we are becoming more open to each other, and economic growth continues to grow precisely the personal standard of our citizens. A lot of concrete steps have been taken for two years and for the first initiatives. A Memorandum of Free Movement of People was signed only with a ID card, the unifying of work permits procedures for all citizens of the Western Balkan countries, a twenty-four hour operation of border controls for phytosanitary and veterinary controls was established, and a common border crossing between Serbia and Northern Macedonia was established. Today, a very important economic event has been held in Skopje, one of the most significant in the last few years. The meeting is attended by the prime ministers of Albania, Northern Macedonia, the president of the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the government and other financial institutions. At the Skopje Regional Co-operation Forum, about 400 companies and businessmen gathered, both from Serbia, Albania, Northern Macedonia, BiH, as well as other regional and European economies in the areas of the construction sector, tourism, food industry, energy, telecommunications. Some of our companies participating there are Nectar, NIS, ER Serbia, Corridors of Serbia, Paths of Serbia, as well as Simpo. The Economic Forum for Regional Co-operation, organised by the Chambers of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania, should sign three documents relating to trade, work permits and mutual support in the event of fires, floods and other disasters. It is predicted that in the next period at the border crossings, rapid lanes for faster passage of people from the region are being built. It is also important to say that the region has fought together and is still fighting the pandemic, which is a global phenomenon and does not know about the borders. Serbia also stood out as an unselfish and solid neighbour, giving first aid and a hand of friendship to countries in the environment, in terms of supply and vaccines and medical equipment. What should be our mission and priority to all of us is to work towards strengthening good neighbourly co-operation, political, economic, economic ties, and all of this can be achieved through dialogue and compromise. Our common goal is a strong and stable region, without tensions and soups, as well as a favourable economic climate for attracting investment and a better standard of living for citizens of our countries. Regional co-operation, good neighbourly relations, mutual assistance and support are the principles on which everyone in the region should strive. We must understand that we do not have any closer to our neighbours, that our cooperation and progress will depend on the standard of living of our citizens, but also the quality of the future of our generations. The basic issue here is not only for Serbia, but also for all other countries in the Balkans -- do we want to settle in 300 years for these areas people who will have the DNA of our peoples or will allow us to sacrifice our future for other people's interests. I believe and hope that both time and generations of unburdened primary past will be ready in the first place to look for common denominators, to learn about the tradition and culture of others who, while improving the quality of life, will solve the shadows of the past that may then look pale. We each have our own attitudes on these subjects, but here the question is whether we are ready to emerge from our hastyness and to show that we are as a people both wise and valuable and better than those who try to get us together and get us together and show each other different things. That's why we in the SPS are going to support everything that is aimed at just giving birth to bridges and integration. As I said at the very beginning, full support will be given to these points on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8713	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vucic - For our children, Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8714	I thank the chairman. The President-in-Office, respected minister, fellow MPs, we have had plenty of opportunities today to hear about CEFTI, as one of the trade agreements that has clearly been made throughout the year, how the EU has formed and how trade relations and economic activities within the EU have grown, it has changed its membership. That's what we saw two weeks ago, when we talked about the EFTI, which was founded in 1960, on the initiative of the United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden, Austria and Portugal. We have now talked about CEFTI, which was founded also in December 1992 by members of the EU, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary. Of course, after that, those countries that were practically in pre-accession membership in relation to the EU and now are no longer members of CEFTE and now we are in the trade agreement since 2013, where Montenegro is also located, and Albania, and BiH, but also Northern Macedonia, and Macedonia and Umnik on behalf of so-called. Kosovo. Why the smart guy? Because they only have international status because Kosovo does not have international status, although it is accepted as so-called. a state of some UN member states, but not enough to have international status, and that's why Umnik does it on their behalf. I will remind you, we have all talked practically about the introduction of taxis that were against an agreement relating to CEFTU, but Serbia has lost over 100m euros in a direct trade relationship when it comes to support Serbian municipalities, when it comes to goods originating in Serbia. What's most interesting, the Umnik was not advertised on this issue as long as the sanctions were going on. The condition of continuing any talks between Belgrade and Pristina was to return to the agreements given to us by international organisations, which we are members of, because Serbia respects its bilateral and multilateral agreements and as such a serious state protects its interests. What we see, Pristina's tendencies exist that such agreements are being torn down, as it did by disrespecting the Brussels Agreement, and it signed back in 2013 and has not implemented all those points it has signed, but this is some sort of maneuver that some things are being carried out in international politics, which I don't think has the support of most of the United Nations states and somewhere there is an obvious weakness of the European Union when we talk in general about Pristina and the relations of understanding international agreements. It is interesting that we have our current CEFTA membership, so it is the Secretary-General of this international organisation from Slovenia, which shows the support of the European Union that indeed such a trade agreement, which is, in fact, a membership of most Western Balkan states, is actually somewhere in contact with the European Union, which we are about to be full members of the European Union and is a unique area of free trade in Southeast Europe. So, implementation of this set of rules has great meaning for us, but we expect a change when all national, means its application policies, implement these rules, we expect that the component of these rules will also become what allows us, but also countries that are signatories of CEFTA, better product competitiveness, better cooperation and as we have seen, the goal is to increase trade. By increasing trade exchanges, you increase business activities, you have higher revenues for the budget, you increase employment, the inflow of foreign direct investment, and as you can see what this trade exchange brings. So today we're talking about it, and in fact, what are the effects of these agreements that Serbia is signing and implementing in accordance with adopted protocols. It should be said that the reason why we are doing this today is because the Government of our Republic of Serbia adopted this protocol and the text on 16 June, and the Protocol in Skopje is confirmed on 21 June of this year, so that we are now ratifying this one Agreement and opening the door for the implementation of this set of rules where we are asking for the provisions and regional PEM conferences to be implemented in our legislation and these rules of origin to be covered by the interests of Serbia, but also the interests of the countries that are members of CEFTA, especially in the region. Our objectives are, in addition to the start of application, and temporary application until we have full ratification of these rules and one who wants to be able to declare the rules for exporting these goods, but what is important to us now is that we have an open opportunity for the markets of countries and which are members of CEFTA and the EFTA and the European Union and Turkey. It is of great importance to us that our products have virtually no barriers and that our national procedure is in line with this adoption and ratification of the Agreement. The most important solutions, we heard in Annex 4 how they are defined when it comes to cumulative origin of goods and the principle of banning VAT returns when it comes to tax exemptions, increasing the tolerance threshold in agricultural products and industrial products, as well as the flexible principle of transporting goods to extreme destinations themselves, and we have innovative provisions as well as the part relating to alternative specialised rules for certain products. Now, we're practically talking about this very important agreement today, but what's even more important to us, I think, is somewhere good, what we're talking about today, which we're talking about today, at the same time today and today, is that the initiative that we've been talking about since 2019, when we're talking about "mini Schengen" came practically from President Aleksandr Vukic, who simply saw the future of the region in Serbia, Macedonia and Albania's co-operation, received its results somewhere. Although we had this break in 2020 because of the pandemic, there was still a lot of work during 2020, because free trade agreements, i.e. the flow of goods and services that President Vucic needs to sign, as well as those relating to joint action on elemental disasters and the part that I think is the most important part, which is the creation of a single labour market, means the abolition of work permits, when it comes to Serbia, Northern Macedonia, Albania, I think it is actually for us to create the future of the region. Why am I saying this? Because obviously some events precede you when it comes to certain initiatives, and today we are talking about that Mr. Vukic was saying that there are common initiatives and common views on the issue of a green agenda, which is in line with that green agreement signed by the EU and when we talk about the industry of our three countries that simply have to raise this industrial production and the complete trade. Mr. Zaev said at today's economic forum that this year, we, these three countries, will end up with a flow of goods and services totaling 76 billion euros. This seems a lot to us, however, when you look at Poland and the countries that have co-operated within CEFTA, when we talk about the Czech Republic, about Slovakia, about Hungary, means when we talk about EU members, you see that it is actually much weaker so far. But that's a good starting point, in fact, that this regional initiative and the agreement between these three countries will really come to life. When we talk about the fact that on January 1st 2023, we will go with a personal map across Macedonia to Albania and will practically go to Greece with a personal map, then we are talking about the mobility of our citizens much bigger, and we are not talking about the economy of having a special traffic tape to go to citizens who are under this initiative "mini Schengen" and the agreement, especially when we talk about businessmen and trucks that will drive goods. Are we talking about CEFTA, the EFTA, when we talk about "mini Schengen" and when we talk about this fast transport of goods and services, and when we talk about saving almost over 800m euros when those borders are abolished, and then the customs are abolished, then you see how much mobility is actually increasing and the economic potential of foreign direct investment, primarily in Serbia, which is now the leading economy in all economic parameters, which shows in fact a major step in the future. Yesterday, Mr. Vukic spoke directly about it. I think that today the citizens of Serbia are getting information somewhere, but when they face their paperwork, with a trip through Macedonia to Albania, then they will see essentially how much the president of the state has done, and the government of the Republic of Serbia simply prepares an environment in which these agreements should live. So we're removing the barriers. It'll come to the making of the so-called. identification personalised cards that will be used by certain applications, and these applications should also give an opportunity and a discount when it comes to the use of hotels, restaurants, the transport of these three countries, but even talk about the possibility of a discount for these three countries for certain services when it comes to Serbia, Macedonia and Albania. We are talking today about taking part, as a state, in the economic forum of the "mini Schengen" initiative. It should be said that 4,1044 companies in Serbia are working with companies from northern Macedonia and 1.004 with companies from Albania. Which actually shows that there are over 53,000 employees working in these companies that co-operate with Northern Macedonia and Albania. This really shows the envious degree, or potential with which we are entering into this agreement. Of course, a common portal will be established for these three countries that will be in three languages. I think it's of great importance and I'm sure your ministry, Mrs. Matic, will take care of it, especially when it comes to trade. The Balkans are actually borderless, the idea of the Balkans to the Balkan peoples is actually starting to live here somewhere, and we are laying the foundations of the initiative. I think it is very important to say, indeed, that there was no leadership of this responsible policy, both foreign and domestic policy when it comes to Mr. Vukic, and when he was in the prime minister's position, and even now that he is in the position of the president of the state, we could not talk at all about such initiatives, nor about the possibility of mobility of citizens, nor about an economy that gives simply one new momentum, especially when it comes to Serbia's economic growth. Simply, citizens want to live better, and now they can live with what the president of the state and this government of the Republic of Serbia are doing. Some want to make clear that their political action in the light of Serbia is simply trying to stop this development of Serbia, to change the course of history that Serbia is clearly seeking, which is progress, and they want to send certain messages that violence can change political relations in Serbia and Serbia with other countries. This is what we have the opportunity to hear from certain political actors, such as Djilas, such as Marinika Tepic, such as Vuk Jeremic here in Serbia. But I think that Serbian citizens know well who leads them to the future and who takes care of them and their interests and who cares about their standard in the future, and who wants to deal exclusively with their own petty interests. So they don't talk about the elections, because they know they don't have a foothold with Serbian citizens and they know they don't have citizens to talk to about the development of the region, about peace, about stability, about the future, but they simply want to be the creators of violence, instability in the region, above all by attacking Alexander Vukic and his family to try to put a complete fight against the mafia and crime in the role of their political programme that wants to get certain votes. That's not gonna happen. Obviously, these agreements show which way Serbia wants to go and what the results are. When you look at the results and the year 2020, which was the worst for the whole world, and the inflow of foreign direct investment in Serbia amounted to three billion euros in gross, i.e. 2.9 billion euros in net, it shows in fact that international institutions and international economic operators see Serbia as a safe, safe destination. It is thanks to the responsible politics of Aleksandar Vukic and the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Mrs Ana Brnabic. It will certainly be recognised in the next elections, next year, when citizens can plead and give their own court on these results. For this reason, I believe that in the day of voting, the Serbian Progressive Party and the list Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, will support this proposal that is on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8715	Thank you. Since we no longer have registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Professor Dr Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8716	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. The People's MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support this proposal, as well as all other proposals from the agenda of this session, because we believe that they are in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that they represent something that is the progress of our society, especially in this segment of financial arrangement and, of course, the opening of what we consider very important, i.e. that these are indicators of getting out of that transition period in the period of stabilisation of our country, in the sense that these agreements contribute to us as a society and as people to be part of this consumer thing. In this context, a very important item, as consumers, we always look at the origin of the product. For me, as someone who is a member of this society, that origin implies quality and security. It is not the same when we talk about the knowledge and importance of this origin, that some product should be about the quality and security of our space, from third-world countries, the EU, etc. We will always identify ourselves for what means quality according to our perception, according to what we consider important, as well as security. I will illustrate this, for example, that it is not equal to wearing a wardrobe or gins originating in Novi Pazar, China, Turkey, India or from EU countries, overseas countries, etc. So it's very important from that abstract that we recognize the quality, the quality that determines at the end and our definition of whether we will treat a particular product in one way or another, i.e. whether we're going to invest our own resources to provide ourselves with that kind of quality. This is considered a great opportunity for all our businesses who will be able to brand their products by quality beyond many products coming from other countries, who simply because of this legal or some other regulation have had a better transition in the wider market, because it is the country of origin, say, some of the EU producers, have been forced to produce their products, because of the faster, easier, simpler and safer placement of these products in the EU countries, to label it as being produced in Europe instead of in the Republic of Serbia or instead of, for example, when it comes to gins, in Novi Pazar, etc., and knowing that it will probably be better to pass, since it has become a special brand, to have if it is true that the origin from our country is, that the origin of New Pazar, if it is in the New Pazar, if it is in the case of clothing or if it is in the case of the agricultural product concerned, or in fact, the agricultural origins that it has a particular, the product that has a particular, the product that has a significant sign, or the origin, which is related to the origin. We therefore believe that these products represent a new chance or an additional chance for all of our people who are seriously dealing with this problem and are opening up to them the possibility of new markets which, because of these and similar obstacles, were in some background order of their interests. Also, we consider this opening that has been discussed many times today, connecting a large part of the Balkan states, and we hope that this trend will continue, for only in such a single community that connects, besides other, capital, market, economy, we can make a concrete and quality answer to all the challenges that we face as a society and overcome all those burdensome things from beyond and closer to the past that in various ways led to misunderstandings and certain kinds of congestion in these relations. That is why we believe that projects like this are very important for the whole region, that they contribute to the convergence of capital first and then to people and all of our goods. Because whether we want to or not, our culture is pervaded, our interests in the past are pervaded, and they have to grow in the future. The whole world sees us as an integrated Balkan cultural space, a Balkan cultural identity, so why not see us as a common Balkan economic interest space that will have its special position within the European continent and the rest of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8717	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8718	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, the fact is that Serbia's most important partners are in the external trade exchange of a Member State of the European Union, and in the second place, signatories of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe. Serbia has a dominant position here, thanks to the region's most developed and largest economy. The 2020 data supports these claims. In fact, Serbia traded the most on average with the Member States of the European Union 61.4%, and in second place are CEFTA Member States. What's important in that trade with countries in the region is that we've achieved a surplus and the surplus is just over two billion dollars. The most surplus is that we exported agricultural products, electronic machines and appliances, oil derivatives, cars and drinks. We are today discussing amendments to Annex 4, which relate to the rules of origin of the product, the origin of the goods. The very fact that we're talking about a topic like this and adopting an agreement like this is that in this way we increase the competitiveness of our goods, the competitiveness of our services on foreign markets, we better position our companies in that case and position our brands better. In terms of increasingly pronounced globalisation, when we talk about regional and sub-regional co-operation, this is exactly the type of co-operation needed and there is growing expression in such market conditions, i.e. in such a competition. It is also logical that countries that are at a similar level of development and have similar economic problems to join together, join their resources, respond primarily to some of their reform processes but, of course, respond to the challenges posed by globalisation at the level of the world economy. One of the basic economic and political objectives of this regional co-operation is that CEFTA countries are best prepared in this way to join the market and become full members of the European Union. It has proved in the past that CEFTA has fulfilled its role and has well prepared members that were once part of this agreement and which are now part of the single European market. Of course, the Western Balkan countries, as their priority and strategic interest, have also set out to become full members of the European Union. Serbia is one of those countries and the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always support such a path. This form of economic co-operation contributes to the development of a regional economy in general. In this way, the signatories achieve better results and use the benefits of joint projects and the benefits of a joint appearance in third markets. The CEFTA, as a Free Trade Agreement, has enabled better co-operation especially among traditional partners, but in any case it is necessary to continue to work on improving this co-operation, to find new ways to improve trade, especially when we speak to the Member States of the European Union. And that, of course, will be achieved by using the synergetic effect of the Member States that are signatories of CEFTA. It is logical for countries to connect according to geographical principles, because they are thus lower transport costs, thus showing similar characteristics of the market, as well as consumer needs. It is important for us that our companies develop their capacities in the right sense, that the quality of goods and services be at an enviable level and ultimately consumers will benefit most from this because they will receive at the best prices of the best quality of products. It is important that we continue to develop this kind of co-operation with countries in the region, and that is one way that Serbia should continue, and that is the path from which the economic benefit is not only us, but also all the other members of the CEFTA signatories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8719	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8720	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, we discussed the EFTA agreements here a few days ago, today we are talking about CEFTA. Personally, when I compare those two things, they're very similar and we could easily do one and the other thing together, i.e. There are similar stories. My colleagues before me told more or less about the details and you said a lot in the opening statement, so even to those citizens who are watching this direct transmission session today, even though they didn't know what CEFTA was, I'm sure they already have some new knowledge about it today. When it comes to the EFTA, the experience was that there were those who went to the European Union, but we also have experience that some have returned to be members of the EFTA, in particular Great Britain. When we talk about CEFTA today, no one's back yet, but it's not off. We are on this European path, as I suppose all other members of the EFTA, but it is very possible to return to us a country from the European Union. Certainly all the agreements we sign as a state, I am not only talking about EFTA and CEFTA, but all agreements at all, each of these agreements brings a certain benefit to the Republic of Serbia. What should be the sum of the sumarum of this agreement, when it comes to CEFTA, is the result, I think counterpart Branislav said earlier, a serious surplus that we are accomplishing as a country. We export four times more to CEFTA members than we import from them. This means that we are dominant on this market, which means that the product palette that Serbia has is far superior to our colleagues or other CEFTA members. We are here, of course, to work together with them, both now and in the future, regardless of who enters the European Union sooner or later. What's good, and I ask you to take one experience today to the government's sessions, that's Dragan Markovic's Palma's proposal, I said it last time, because it's a strategic product in all these agricultural stores. Whatever we're talking about, the economy, the economy, we always sort of go back to that agriculture, and I'm sure Serbia has something to offer. What our agricultural producer needs is adequate and timely information. We have the e-Government that came into life. There are certain shortcomings, in terms of these days I see that there are great crowds when it comes to passports and ID cards, and that's one topic, I'm talking extremely well on purpose, where we should get a little bit out on the ground, to see what it is that needs to be accelerated to make e-Government work even better, but it's also a suggestion to find a way to make something similar to e-Government, which would be for the benefit of agricultural producers. It would be the fastest way to get to them to get real information about what it is to be trendy and what it is they need to produce, what they need to focus on. We had almost a tomato situation in Leskovec, we all followed it, when farmers were angry because the simple market determined that at that moment the price of tomatoes was what it was. We also have a situation, and I did it the last time the EFTA was on the agenda saying that we have a price for the raspberries that is 400 dinars. It's all life. There's no way we can guarantee someone, at least we as a state, any price that will be the same from the beginning to the end, for example, in the next five years. That dictates the market. But what's a good thing? It's a good thing we take advantage of everything the state gives. These are a variety of incentives, various subsidies for agricultural producers to focus on production, not only to deal with the basic raw materials they produce, but to find some way of processing and to have a semi-product or finished product that is not conditioned by trade time, that at the moment and when the market situation occurs, that the prices of certain products are low, that they can save their goods and their profits to take at another point. The state has done a lot here. Various IPARD funds, different subsidies, World Bank subsidies have been opened. The Ministry of Agriculture is doing great. I'll tell you what's wrong with the field. People aren't familiar with it enough. Agricultural producers don't know what they have at their disposal. So, as far as the state is concerned, I can say, this year may be less than the previous years, but these funds are not used enough when it comes to agricultural producers. So, one proposal for you to pass on to the government sessions, your colleagues, the possibility to create a system that will make it easier for farmers to inform about all the benefits that the state has for them and to direct them to what it is they need to do. We're talking about protecting our own production, because in the previous days that was exactly the subject, when it comes to CEFTA members, I've come into an analysis of how other countries do it. What seems very popular is to say a thing that is in practice not applicable. Of the 400 proposals that were as certain measures to protect domestic markets, when it came to all Member States, both the EFTA and the CEFTA, and related to international agreements, half of them could not be implemented, so half of them were just a good story. We need to be realistic and go back to the fact that Serbia is four times more exporting CEFTA members than it is exporting from them. We can't criticise at all costs if at some point it happens that the price of a agricultural product is lower in the environment and enters our market, although we have mechanisms and measures to defend ourselves. The same thing, Minister, that I want to take advantage of your presence and ask you, it has nothing to do with the CEFTA, but it has to do with the trade, it has to do with the inspection services that are in your control is to explain to the citizens what happened at the time of the pandemic when we have this mask that cost five dinars before the pandemic, and today it costs five dinars, and at the moment of the pandemic, that price was going on from 100, 150 and 200 dinars? At that point, someone misused his position on the market and very incorrectly, I am free to compare war profits, came up with certain incomes and one-off profits because he took advantage of a situation that was unfavourable for Serbian citizens at that time. We can commend the state for all the measures it's done. It's also financial aid, different incentives, we've been fighting financial resources more and better than anyone in the environment, the state has provided vaccines, not one, two, three, four, five. So everything that happened to the foreign state when it was supposed to affect the struggle with the pandemic, the state did. It's for every praise, but for condemning that group that managed to make enormous profits just because it abused the situation at that moment on the market, whether they had supplies or managed to import those masks, I don't know, but what costs five dinars, that you sell 200, so it's not 100 percent margin or I don't know what, but certainly two thousand times what it looks like. It was the subject of a committee, where as a member of this Committee on Economy I spoke to your colleagues from the Ministry and they told me that, these irregularities were seen, these people may not be punished in the most pathetic way. My question for you is -- let's get ready for this autumn that's coming, because some information says the number of infected is increasing. Let's do everything we can to protect the market and consumers together, so we don't get into the same situation. Let me get back to the subject. As for all these agreements, colleagues said earlier, President Aleksandar Vukic was in Macedonia today and yesterday for a meeting with the president of Albania, and is still working on new agreements that will certainly facilitate both trade and good neighbourly relations. Personally, I think that good neighbourly relations are what was always missing in the Balkans. We're headed for each other. In some things we differ, but here comes the time that we all realized that from these differences we could only have damage, and no use. What's a big engine and a big driving force of all these agreements is that today in the country of the regional Balkan Forum, where there are over 400 companies from these areas that have a common goal, which is exactly what I just said, these are agreements that the president is going to sign. The economy and economy are definitely the point of bringing us all together here in the Balkans. Your ministry plays a big part here. We certainly do, but like other colleagues, we support these agreements that are on the agenda today and we count on us to continue at the same pace and to be leaders in the region, and that we have offers to sign similar agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8721	Minister Tatjana Matic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8722	Thank you. Dear People's MP, on the issue of the price of protection masks, I would say that during the pandemic caused by Kovid-19, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted two regulations. The first regulation refers to the price restriction, i.e. the margins of the protection of the mask, and this is a regulation on the restriction of the retailing of the prices of protective products, i.e. masks. The second decision is to limit the level of prices and margins of basic life intentions and protective equipment, which are masks. The regulation regulated that epidemiological masks and gloves can be sold at limited prices up to 120 dinars for masks and up to 200 dinars for epidemiological masks, and up to 40 dinars for gloves. It's all about the price per piece. Since the application of the Regulation, i.e. From 22 March 2020 to 06 May 2020, when this Regulation ceased to apply, market inspectors carried out 866 extraordinary inspection controls in traders, i.e. In the pharmacy, there were not many cases where maladministration was identified. However, here I have to say that this inspection was about the control of pharmacies where the maximum retail price was prescribed, but we didn't have, nor can we have insight into the import prices of masks. Therefore, in relation to these and the margins that may have been high, this issue is not in the department's jurisdiction but in the Republic Health Insurance Fund. But we point to the following very important fact that the supply of pharmacies with masks and gloves by the Republic Health Fund has significantly stabilised the situation on the market and that the masks and distribution of protective equipment that went through the RFZO has contributed to the price of the protective equipment needed at the time of Kovid in fact being lower. On the other hand, there was a whole series of pharmacies that did not belong to the RFO network and which had certain prices, different and related to other decisions that the government had to make, which is actually a decision on the restriction of the price and margins of basic life supplies and protective equipment, and this was prescribed that the margin of wholesalers and retailers should not exceed the level calculated on the day of March 05, 2020, meaning on the day of the outbreak of the pandemic. Of course, certain controls have been carried out there, however, we note once again that certain sanctions have been imposed, but that market inspection itself and our supervision, unfortunately does not include the supervision of the profits made by the economic operators when we talk about the sale of the mask and the prices of the mask. So that's what the government could do at that point, how it stabilized the market. The fact is that we are still part of a liberal market and that we cannot, we have one economy that, above all, is based on the free market and on demand and therefore on defining certain prices. What the government could do was immediately and did, so it limited prices and provided protection equipment distribution through the RFZO, and in private pharmacies it only defined that the price of margins should not be higher. The question here is not only about our market, unfortunately, especially at that first moment we didn't even have a lot of mask manufacturers, so all of this was imported, there's a question of what the situation was like in other markets, where the masks and other protective equipment were actually imported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8723	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8724	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable President-in-Office, distinguished minister, Mrs Matic, with her associate, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all I have to say about this agreement is that my dear colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, from our parliamentary group, "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children", but what I would like to do today is, in particular, what the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, has said in Skopje at a very important economic forum, and it concerns excellent and commercial and economic and any other co-operation between the Republic of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. With that in mind, I want to say that in this time, and especially in the past few months, so we can say years, individual foreign centres of power, help with the part of the opposition in Serbia and mafia clans, had a plan to bring down and bring Serbia down. They had a plan to bring down President Aleksandar Vukic from power and bring the thieves back to power, those thieves who were until 2012 and that we have again in Serbia not one mob murder a year, but 35 mob murders on average, as we had in the 2000s. He also spoke about all of this in detail last night during the address of President Aleksandar Vucic, who is also the most responsible we have said to the mafia - enough and that we have these excellent results both in the fight against the mafia and in the economy, and primarily in terms of the excellent relations we have both in the region and in Europe, as well as with all the world powers. In Skopje, President Vukic made it clear that the main policy of the Republic of Serbia is peace and stability. We will do everything to make Serbia implement this policy, to have the best relations with both Northern Macedonia and Albania and Montenegro and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, and with our Republic of Serbia, as well as with all other countries with which the Republic of Serbia is bordering. But we will also never allow Serbia to be destroyed, that Serbia, the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia are humiliated and that we acknowledge what has not happened and that whenever it is someone's interest to degrade the Serbian people, to implement it. Serbia led by Aleksandra Vucic is a proud state, which is the leader of peace and stability policy, which has, as counterpart Aleksandra Tomic said, the best economic policy in Europe and during the past and during the past part of this year, not to mention the excellent fight against the crown of the virus, investing in health and all other areas that are vital areas for the state of Serbia and all its citizens. In order for us to continue to do so, we must give full support, in addition to those institutions that lead the fight against the mafia in the Republic of Serbia, both the Serbian government and President Alexander Vukic, but to always warn about everything that our president warned about last night when he spoke to Skopje, that part of the opposition supported by mafia clans in Serbia and individual foreign services of the Western countries, I will not now state what these countries are, have an interest in them known reasons to make Serbia weaker, so that all those thieves can return to power and that the mafia clans in Serbia are carrying out all the wishes of these thieves on a political stage. Fortunately, Serbian citizens know best, Serbia's citizens know exactly who is for Serbia, who is against Serbia. Those who are against Serbia have largely not crossed the censorship and those who are for Serbia, we saw it last year in the elections, absolutely the majority of Serbia is for this policy implemented by our President Aleksandar Vucucic, and today we see these serious results and we will see these results seriously, because we really should be proud of this policy. We should be proud, all citizens, no matter what political party they belonged to, of everything he did not only yesterday and today in Skopje our president and what he will do, but what he did all the previous months and years for one reason only, and that one interest is the interest of our country and all its citizens. Therefore, I want my fellow MPs from the Legislative Group "Alexandar Vukic - For Our Children" to always be of full support to everything our president, despite numerous pressures, is doing for our country and all its citizens. And it's not easy for our president. A colleague of mine, Mirkovic, spoke in detail yesterday about the week of severed attacks on President Vukic and his family. Just look at the new series of lies, which is placed not only on the account of President Vukic but also on the account of his brother Andrej and his oldest son, Daniel, and where - in the part of the media in Serbia, with the support of whom - the mob clans and who else - and the works of the opposition. That's what's inadmissible, that's what's disgusting and that's what I'm convinced the citizens of Serbia will punish in any subsequent election. Because citizens are fed up with what happened by 2012, the rule of the former regime, the thieving policies, where we've had not a few murders a year, but dozens of mob murders in Serbia, where certain tycoons became multimillionaires, where mob clans had their own people in state structures, and today that's not the case anymore. Thanks to who? Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and thanks to President Alexander Vukic. Therefore, in the end, I just want to support all this and what the Serbian government is doing and what our president is doing, and I only pray to God that our president and all his associates serve health and that they have even more power, and I know that they have this in this fight against the mafia so that all citizens in the Republic of Serbia will be better, and that will be. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8725	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8726	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with the Co-operation, we are today considering, as we could hear from colleagues who were just talking about amendments to the four CEFTA agreement, which refers to products of origin and methods of administrative co-operation. I think that much of this topic has been discussed in the previous presentation, but I will briefly refer to the free trade agreement in the Balkans itself, i.e. the CEFTA agreement and why it is of paramount importance to us. Because the creation of a Western Balkan country's free trade zone is actually determined for one economic and economic co-operation and development and, thus showing that they are completely free and open to leading a common economic policy and taking over of themselves and obligations, as well as responsibilities related to the development of the entire region. It is doubtless even more emphasising the European perspective of this region, but also our country's desire to join the EU. Back in the 19th century, England as the most developed country of that time began to spread the idea of free trade, which was not recognized by the underdeveloped countries at that time as their own interest, so at that time the lowering of customs was mostly an act due to some good neighbourly relations and was the intention of some friendly relations between the two neighbouring countries that ultimately resulted in the conclusion of a number of bilateral agreements on liberalisation, which ultimately represents the introduction of economic integration that we know today in the Balkans and everywhere in the world. Today, the free trade system is particularly important for small countries for a number of reasons. On the one hand, resource limitation, but also insufficient domestic production of certain products imposes a need for larger imports. The larger the imports, the more they necessarily trigger, the more they create the need for increased exports in order to finance this increased imports, and eventually all of this results in the once-increased openness of one country and the economy to the whole world. The Minister mentioned earlier that in June this year the Government concluded that the text of this Annex 4 was accepted and the reason for this conclusion was the need for the implementation of a new set of rules relating to the origin of goods, particularly those provided for in the provisions of the PEM Convention, i.e., as explained, it provides for a dynamic link with the PEM Convention. This would mean that certain industrial products can be produced in more than one country in the region, belonging to EFTA, CEFTA and Mediterranean countries. In other words, investment is indirectly encouraged, but also industrial co-operation in these areas. It is precisely the PEM Convention that aims to contribute to more intensive co-operation of signatories countries, then, simplifying the conditions for obtaining the origin of goods, but also closer integration of the business community representatives themselves. In principle, this law is important and it will certainly enable more efficient production, it will define both imports and exports more clearly, but provided that all participants in this chain have to comply with certain rules. I mean the fact that they need to know about legal regulation, but also that they respect it, then, to adapt their business to those conditions that the CEFTA Agreement provides for, to cooperate with each other and to train them in good time, but also to inform them. Here, first of all, I mean the professional training of customs officers. At the very end, I would just mention that the CEFTA agreement is a modern and liberal free trade agreement and it covers more than 90% of each other's trade in goods in the region. This is particularly important for Serbia, given that the exchange with CEFTA signatories covers close to 53% of Serbian exports and about 15% of exports from around the world. Let us not forget that the region covered by CEFTA has a good trade surplus and should certainly be used for the benefit of our economy. Due to all the above-mentioned arguments, our parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia in the voting day will support the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8727	Thank you. The People's MP, Luke Kebar, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8728	Thank you. The President-in-Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Jevdzic, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Matic, with co-worker, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, are talking about a very important agreement at today's session of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, i.e. the amendments to that agreement. Namely, we are talking about a law confirming the Decision of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe, CEFTA No 1/2021, amending Annex 4. The Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe CEFTA 2006, which lays down the Protocol on the definition of the concept of ‘origin products’ and the method of administrative co-operation referred to in Article 14, paragraphs 1 and 3 and repealing and replacing the decisions of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe No.3.2013. and 3/2015. In the previous speech, I stressed the importance of these changes, but they concerned changes in the EFTA Agreement, and these were changes in the CEFTA Agreement, i.e. the Central Organisation of Free European Trade, that is, the Central European Free Trade Agreement, which is made up of Serbia, Montenegro, Moldova, Northern Macedonia, Albania and Bich. It also makes the UNIMIK presidency for Pristina, but for us it is only six member states, six countries, because Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and there is no speech on that. A joint session of the CEFTA Committee, which is responsible for implementing this Agreement, has led to certain amendments concerning this Protocol B on the origin of products and origin of goods, as well as certain changes concerning the method of new administrative cooperation, new regulations and processes framed in this digitalisation process. They include the following essential things, i.e. objectives, which are certainly the possibility of applying full cumulation of goods and services, the abolition of the principle of ban on vomiting and the exemption from customs duties, the increase of the tolerance threshold for agricultural products to 15% of the net mass of products, and for industrial products 15% of the finished value of the product, the more flexible principle of territoriality and direct transport, as well as new provisions on evidence and origin, and the possibility of electronic issue and acceptance of proof of origin, as well as alternative specific rules for farmers, for agricultural and industrial products, but also to facilitate the acquisition of these goods. These changes are carried out in accordance with the PEM Convention, the Pan-European-Mediterranean Convention on Preferential Origin of Goods, which we joined in 2013. This includes certain rules, certain procedures, certain regulations that will enable our country to exchange better external trade, better results, better flow of goods and services, and all of this will contribute to strengthening our economy, our economy and our GDP. Of course, these amendments and additions to Protocol B and the method of administrative co-operation, in addition to CEFTA countries, are of interest to both the EU and the EFTA countries, but also to Turkey, which is an additional indicator that it is a very good agreement, i.e. the very quality changes to this CEFTA agreement, which will contribute to creating an even better atmosphere in international trade. When we talk about Serbia's foreign policy, we must bear in mind that all these successes are in charge of our President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is important to note that Serbia's reputation in the world is now very envious, that there is an increasing number of foreign direct investments and that more bilateral agreements are being signed, as well as multilateral agreements with numerous international organisations. Thanks to Alexander Vukic, we have co-operation with both EU countries and the countries of the region and the Middle East and with the Far East and Russia and with all other countries. It is important to highlight this co-operation at this multilateral level, which we also have with a number of international organisations both with the EU and with the UN and with all other organisations with which we have already inherited good relations from earlier. Of course, our President Vukic, another interesting piece of information, has in the last six years more than 100 meetings with the prime ministers, more than 100 meetings with heads of state around the world, including meetings with Trampa, with Beyden, Merkel, Macron, Putin, Sijiping and Erdogan. It is another interesting piece of information, of course, if we exclude this pandemic of Coronavirus, that currently on Henle's list, namely the Henle World Passport Index, the Serbian passport is located in a very good 36th place, which means that our citizens can travel visa-free, or travel to a visa-free regime in 135 countries of the world. Unlike President Aleksandar Vukic, the former yellow government has tried in all ways only to achieve some particular political interests. In translation, it means that they realize that they vote more in the elections and fill their pockets. Serbia's foreign policy consisted only of mere protocol relations with countries with which we already have established international, or diplomatic relations, without great results and signed bilateral agreements. We at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia almost every week ratify a bilateral agreement, which is an additional indicator of how much our diplomacy works in the field. Vuk Jeremic, his click of the impertinent, the secikas, the auto-skiller, she only cared about her own particular political interests and her laziness, inactivity, incompetence in the field of diplomacy, she only humiliated Serbia, humiliated Serbia's reputation in the world, devastated our entire economy, completely our economy. But, Vuk Jeremic, when it comes to his pocket, he was quite successful in calling a diplomat. He's been making suspicious deals all over the world with all kinds of white-world hohstapplers. He's still pretending to be naive today when we ask him about that affair where he's involved, where the main actors are arrested and convicted, rightfully. It's Sheik Gadi, Patrick Ho and Emlio Lozo. Thanks to these dubious jobs, Patrick Ho and Emilio Lozoja paid more than, believe it or not, seven million dollars at the expense of Jeremic's private firm and his NGO founded in Belgrade without talking about the suspicious business he has with foreign embassies and the revenues he regularly receives from these embassies. But Jeremic is not the only one who devastated Serbia and did not care about signed trade agreements. Namely, there's Gilas, for example. In spite of Belgrade, Gilas also addressed some issues at the republican level. Let's remember that he was also the minister and director of that public investment office. His media and the Solaka media and their support for the Belivuk-Miljkovic clan support various members of criminal organisations and organised criminal groups, relying on their statements as credible, as if they were some absolute truths. Now I'm going to tell you ladies and gentlemen, let's define these methods a little bit. In the book of Law School organized crime, written by Professor Djordje Ignatović and Professor Milan Škulić, who are also the heads of the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Belgrade, in this great book "Organised Crime", in the opening part, means in the opening work concerning the criminal analysis of organised crime in the world, you have this: "Crime organizations members, for example, deny their belonging to such groups, which is also natural, given that their activities are criminally responsible. They can deny belonging to this world of organised crime convinced that their gang is something quite different from the public-made image of the mafia." What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? This further means that at this theoretical, scientific, professional level, the methods of these organised crime groups, members of criminal organisations have already been clearly defined, and it is normal for such characters, such killers, to invent and to lie to avoid the hand of the law, but we still have more. Constant attacks on Serbia, on Alexander Vukic, from the failed Gilas and Šolak tycoon media, but also from one Sarajevo media, but also from the country from which the two clans that have been clashing, unfortunately, in previous years on the streets of Belgrade... Of these countries and their politicians, only the attacks directed towards Serbia, according to Aleksandar Vukic. Why? Because Serbia is making economic progress. Serbia is the economic leader in the region and by the number of foreign direct investment both by GDP and by GDP per captain and by many other economic, or macroeconomic indicators. Instead of their media, their officials deal with the misery they've found themselves in, because they're squirming in poverty, to help their own people... Here's an example, why wouldn't those from these Sarajevo media or these Gilas and the Scholaks help these people join a great initiative, such as the mini Shengen Initiative? To help their people and to forget a little about their own particular political interests, to help their poor people, but no. No, I don't. Their pocket is the most important, the pocket of those tycoons, those tycoon politicians. Also, many of these individuals from the mere jealousy of the ad-homino attack President Alexander Vukic, because they are aware of how small and miserable they are in relation to our president. They are both Djilas, and Šolak, and Jeremic, and Marinika, and Tadic, and Aleksic, and some politicians from the region who are neither as capable nor as educated as him, nor as discreet as him, nor as intelligent as him, nor as successful as him. Aleksandar Vucic is Emperor Dusan of the 21st century, a man who soon managed to make a respectable European state out of a poor devastated Serbia. Serbian citizens have recognised the results of SNS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, but also the results, i.e. the misdemeanor and shame of Vuk Jeremic, his tycoon clicks, Dragan Gilas, Solak and other tycoons, and the next elections, will win that policy, the policy of progress in all fields, labour policy, politics, labour policy, a policy of constant commitment to Serbia as an even better place to live. Long live Serbia! Long live President Alexander Vukitch!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8729	Thank you, Comrade Kebara. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8730	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Serbia is today a credible and reliable partner on the international stage, we are really developing true partnerships with the countries of the West and the East. Serbia is increasingly believed today, and it sits equally with a table with great forces. Her voice is today, and as it hears, it is respected and respected in the world. The best testimony is the recently held forum in Skopje where Serbia signed, along with Northern Macedonia and Albania, three very important agreements that will also improve the quality of life of citizens of the region, the Western Balkans region. It is the regional initiative of Mini Shengen initiated by our President Alexander Vukic. The three agreements that Aleksandar Vukic signed in Skopje concern the removal of barriers, the acceleration of the flow of goods and services between the Republic of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. Also, the second agreement concerns joint prevention and assistance and support in the event of natural disasters and disasters. Our citizens of Serbia can witness the devastating consequences of the May floods that hit our entire region during May 2014. Serbia is not an isolated island and indeed the May floods in 2014, but this pandemic of the corona virus has also shown that countries in the neighbourhood, countries in the Western Balkans region are really focused on co-operation. We really need to co-operate, exchange experiences, not only when there are disasters and disasters, natural disasters, but also when it comes to vaccination, and in which Serbia is a really good example. We are today discussing the ratification of an important international agreement, such as the CEFTA Agreement, which concerns the confirmation of the Decision of the Joint Committee on Free Trade in Central Europe and the amendment of Annex 4 to the CEFTA 2006, which sets out the definition of "produced products" and the methods of administrative co-operation referred to in Article 14. It is also two protocols – Protocol A and B, where Protocol A provides that, for the purpose of applying the rules of origin, the provisions of the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin are to be applied, and Protocol B contains provisions in full cumulation of the origin of goods, the abolition of the ban on vomiting or the exemption from customs duty under the CEFTA with the possibility of enlargement to both other zones and other CEFTA partners. We mean the EU itself, but also the EFTA countries and Turkey. In relation to these PEM rules, alternative rules can be much more flexible, more liberal in terms of non-original matter, and it is possible to facilitate the status of origin of certain materials. Also, by ratifying this international agreement, the citizens of Serbia will indeed have huge reliefs, and above all I think of our agricultural producers, indeed our economic environment will be greatly improved, our economy will rise, our exports of our agricultural products, but also all other products – industrial products, textile products. It is necessary that they have proof of the origin of the goods in the adoption of this Agreement and one of the benefits of this agreement, which we will have on the day of ratification in the National Assembly, is that it will allow for one easier and simpler way to come. For example, you can see this on a classic case, now the exporting producer will be given the opportunity to choose easier conditions of origin, at least when it comes to industrial products. As for agricultural products, I mean vegetable oils, nuts, tobacco, they will now have much easier and more flexible rules than they've ever had before. Also, the same applies to products made of pletics, fats and oils, whether they are animal, whether they are of plant origin, also fruit products, residues or waste from the food industry, prepared food for animals, tobacco and tobacco products. According to data I found in the media, there are 53 products with protected geographical origin in Serbia, 47 are agricultural, food products, such as wooded ajvar, Djerdap and kacer honey, Aril raspberries, goldsmith's cheese. We also have those non-food products, such as a Sabbath towel, a pyrotic carpet, or an orphan braid. When we look at official data from the Republic Statistics Office, we can really see what key partners are when it comes to external trade in Serbia. In the reporting period, which was formed by the Republic Statistics Institute, from January to March 2021, we see that in the first place EU countries are certainly with 63.4% of the total foreign trade. Also, our most important other partner according to these data are certainly CEFTE countries with which we have a surplus and exchange of $566 million and this is mainly the result of agricultural exports. First of all, I mean cereal and cereal products, but also oil, oil derivatives, electric machines and appliances, road vehicles, iron and steel. Exports to these data account for Serbia, the country's CEFTE 838.7m dollars, and imports of $272.7m. So it's covered with imports and exports of 307.6%. This tells us why it is important to continue to adopt those international agreements, why it is important to ratify international agreements and why it is important to facilitate the process of exchange and liberalisation of trade and the flow of goods, one of the four fundamental freedoms on which only the EU single market rests. When we talk about this CEFTA agreement, it is about an agreement that provides for cumulation of origin beyond CEFTA zones with EU member states, with the EFTA, above all I mean Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Linhenstein, as well as Turkey. I must also really say that Serbia has ratified in many ways a large number of international agreements, a large number of international conventions that and thus facilitate the process, both for our economic operators and for all our citizens. Serbia strongly supports all regional and European initiatives, the Berlin process is only one of these initiatives, but also all those initiatives that focus on building a common regional market and a regional initiative, such as the mini Schengen, which is one of the initiators of our President Aleksandar Vukic. Mini Shengen is based on four freedoms, on freedom of movement of goods, human and capital services and on how this initiative will be worked in the coming period. These three agreements signed recently in Skopje will allow our people without work permits to really move. You can live in Skopje, Tirana or Belgrade today, to work and operate without any barriers, and to remove such barriers, we will continue in the months and days ahead. In addition to the CEFTA agreement, the Republic of Serbia has ratified and is in force and one of the most significant agreements is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which was signed and entered into force on 1 September 2013. It is about an agreement that is very much leading to strengthening the partnership between the EU and Serbia, and which is indeed aimed at contributing Serbia's progress towards EU accession. In addition to the agreement with the EU, Serbia also has agreements that are in force regarding free trade with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Turkey, but also with the EFTA countries. It is not only the contractual state and ratification of certain international conventions and international agreements that are important for the development and improvement of the country's bilateral and international relations. It is certainly important and transport and energy infrastructure and integration. Serbia is also a leader in the Western Balkans region when it comes to improving transport and energy infrastructure during previous years. We are really well connected with traffic and highways both EU member states and other non-EU neighbours. Recently, the implementation of the Roaming Compensation Agreement for the Western Balkans has also begun, which has greatly improved our business and life for all citizens of the region. The coronary crisis has shown that the importance of co-operation and the necessity of the integration of all partners on the international scene. It also showed how resilient one country is, how one country is ready to meet all the challenges ahead of it. Serbia has done much to reform the public administration, in the digitalisation process, and our citizens have indeed used more than ever during the Kovid - 19 pandemic. I also want to say that we have not yet taken advantage of these full capacity regional co-operation. In the days and years ahead of us and how we can work on further realisation and regional integration and regional co-operation, to realise all those plans that relate to the better integration of our industrial products on our industrialisation of our countries, and to continue working on what Serbia is indeed a leader in the South East European region, and above all I think of the direct foreign investors. Although it was a pandemic, we continued to attract foreign investors and to open up production facilities in small towns, municipalities and villages, to employ people and bring in new investors, because Serbia today is a stable country in which people want to come and invest their capital and their money. Serbia today, as I said, is a credible and reliable partner on the international scene, a country that is believed as well. I would also take this opportunity to today, this is about the ratification of an important agreement, that there really shouldn't be any political divisions, that we should be in the same direction, and I would take this opportunity to invite all my fellow MPs, regardless of what political parties they come from, to support the ratification of such an important international agreement so that our agricultural producers, our textile producers, our industrial producers, our economy can easily place our goods outside our country's borders because Serbia is today a stable, safe and prosperous country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8731	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, we are now going to interrupt the session in this section for the oath of the Republic Public Prosecutor, Zagorka Dolovac. We'll just wait for Mrs. Dolovac to come in and the president of the assembly will come.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we are now going to take the oath of the Republic Public Prosecutor, it is my honor to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on behalf of myself, Mrs Maja Popovic, Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Jasmin Vasovic, President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic of Public Prosecutor, holder of the highest public prosecutorial office in the Republic of Serbia, member of the State Council of Prosecutors and all other present guests. I remind you that the National Assembly was elected by Zagorka Dolovac as the Republic Public Prosecutor at the Ninth Extraordinary Session held on 22 July 2021. Article 83(1) The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office provides for the Republic Public Prosecutor to take an oath before the National Assembly. Accordingly, I call on Mrs. Zagorko Dolovac, the Republic Public Prosecutor to approach to take the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) ‘I implore my glass that I will commit, knowingly and unbiasedly and protect the constitution and lawfulness, human rights and civil liberties’. Please sign and submit the text of the oath. I now call upon the Republic Public Prosecutor to address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8733	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister of Justice, the Honorable People's MPs, dear colleagues and guests, I have the special honor and pleasure to address you today, on my own behalf, and on behalf of the Republic Public Prosecutors and all the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors of Serbia. Being in front of you and taking the oath of a decision entrusted to me with the mandate to perform the duties of the Republic Public Prosecutor is a special event in the professional career of every prosecutor. Today I take that responsibility, aware of everyone in the first place of the obligations and duties that await me, but also of the expectations that I have towards my colleagues, according to the public prosecutor's office as a system, the judiciary, the legislative executive authority, as well as the very society, whose criminal legal order you chose me to protect. We are witnessing that recently it has become commonplace for the public prosecutor's office to be considered important, if not a crucial point in solving and directing almost all social events and tensions, although this is not the role of public prosecutors in any society and state. With this in mind, the Public Prosecutor's Office and I, as the Republic Public Prosecutor, are exposed to unprecedented pressure and threats, and very often to insults in the expectation that, in accordance with the sightings or needs of certain stakeholders or individuals of public prosecutions, a certain effect, which, as a rule, also has its own echoes in the political sphere, is being directed. With that in mind, I will remind myself of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which clearly determine that the public prosecutor's office is an independent state body, which prosecutes criminals and other criminal acts and which take measures to protect constitutionality and legality. Our duty is to protect men and other fundamental social values that form the basis and limits for the determination of criminal offences, the prerogation of criminal sanctions and their application, to the extent necessary for the control of these crimes, not forgetting that punishment can only be given to the perpetrator who is guilty of the crime committed. I am aware of these obligations, today I promise that during the period of mandate that you have chosen me, I will continue to work on the promotion of public prosecutors in all areas of my jurisdiction, especially given the specialisation and application of new working methodologies, effective co-operation with other state bodies, strengthening international co-operation, and strengthening the capacity of the public prosecutor's office, through the introduction of new and improving existing information technologies. I will continue to advocate the consistent implementation of the basic principles in the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the light of the application of the principle of independence, impartiality, professionality and accountability. I will pay particular attention to supporting and encouraging public prosecutors in the handling of cases in which we, as a society and state, oppose corruption, organised crime and criminal groups, as well as other serious crimes including economic crime, money laundering, confiscation of property arising from crime, drug trafficking, arms, people and human trafficking, human rights protection, and in particular the protection of women, minors and minority communities, as well as the repression of increasingly present high-tech crime. Given the direct competence of the Republic Public Prosecutor and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, I will further focus on improving and strengthening international co-operation both through strengthening bilateral relations and through strengthening the role of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in the judicial networks and international organisations, and will continue to achieve exceptional co-operation with international partners, to provide professional assistance, quality and efficiency of the conduct of domestic public prosecutors in the process, as well as the delivery of data and evidence that we seek from foreign countries. Although in certain social political circles my long-term professional experience is a negative circumstance, today I will say here before you that my previous experience and the results achieved in the implementation and protection of the Constitution of trusted competences and the legislation of the prescribed powers of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office have demonstrated the capacity and ability to successfully manage the public and the highest public prosecutor's office in our country, as well as to direct public prosecutors of the Republic of Serbia by contributing to the rule of law and the effective work of the judiciary, i.e. creating a safer society for our citizens. Dear People's MPs allow me to thank you once again at the end of this address for the confidence shown, so know that you have not only shown this trust to me, but also to all the public prosecutors and deputy Serbian public prosecutors, experts and prosecutor staff who work together daily and fight crime and hundreds of thousands of criminals on an annual basis. Unfortunately, that happens sometimes, and it seems more and more often to me to forget. We are together with the police and courts the last to defend our society against crime. Sometimes, not as perfect as we would have wanted it ourselves, but still effective enough that a significant majority of our citizens can say they feel safe and protected in Serbia. Make sure we keep doing that. I thank you for your attention and trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8734	Thank you. Allow me to congratulate you on behalf of all the MPs and on my behalf once again on the election and wish you a great deal of success in your work. This concludes this part of today's session by taking the oath of the Republic Public Prosecutor before the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8735	Ladies and gentlemen, the next on the list of speakers is MP Serbian Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8736	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Dr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is not only a great day in Serbia, but it is a great day in this region, in the Western Balkans region, and I would say in particular that there is a great moment between the three states, between the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. Alexander Vukic, Zoran Zaev and Edi Rama attended the event. That's something I'd say, as a moment marks, not just today, but will mark the decades ahead. Because this Balkan house has been looking too sad for over a decade now, and it's been so sad, and it's been so rowdy, and it's been so hard on hate, conflict, and crazy, I dare say crazy wars, because there's no war that's good and anything that can be justified. That is why the initiative, this "mini Schengen" as it is called, and then today it has its new name - the open Balkans, is good for all those living in this region, for the final stabilisation of our region, for the final future of all the people who live here and all our children. We rarely talk about children having or not having a future in the Balkans. Today, the agreements reached, attended by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, I am sure when I say that children in the Balkans have a future, that children in Serbia, northern Macedonia and Albania, thanks to understanding, co-operation, agreements reached have a safe future and a certain perspective for a much better life than our fathers, grandfathers or grandfathers had in the century that is behind us. This century behind us has long burdened us with various disputes, as I have said, different accidents and conflicts, but a century ahead of us is a time of development, progress and modernisation, and I think for the first time as Serbia, as well as the Western Balkans region recognized this opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity that lies ahead of all of us, to build a safe house in the Balkans amongst ourselves, that we are not waiting for someone to take us anywhere, but to build ourselves a zone of free trade, movement of people, capital, because that is what I am stressing to children, who are so much missing, building a future in the future that is ahead of us. We keep saying that we need to stop the outflow of young and smart people from Serbia, but also other countries in our region. This is the chance. This is the opportunity for young people to see and today young people see, especially those who do innovation, who do trade, who do serious business see a chance to stay in this region and build their future. Because they can move freely, that they can communicate, freely exchange ideas with each other, build their businesses, their lives, their families, and stay on those hearths that have been ours for centuries. But to whom is all this unsuitable, and who today will not answer the occasion? What has been achieved today is not just an act that is related to one, the other or the third person, this is something that belongs to all of us, which belongs to all the peoples who have agreed on it today. This in our country does not suit those who represent themselves as alternatives to Alexander Vukic and SNS. None of them are going to mention it today. Not today will any of their tabloids, not one of their media, not today, not one of their portals to say – well done, we have finally managed to move something from a dead spot in the Balkans. No, because it takes this good news, this best news for all of us and for all of our children to bury some false accusations, some of the worst vomits, some inventions, lies trying to criminalise, to bring down Serbia, just the ones who threw it into the worse of crime and corruption from 2000 to 2012. This image of corruption and crime in the image of Dragan Gilas does not calm down and every day pays some new tabloids, some new portals, some new media, invest millions of euros to bring down not only Alexander Vukic, because they know that when they bring down Alexander Vukic they brought down Serbia, that's the point. That is the point of those services outside Serbia that help them. That's the point of all their financials, tycoon and mobs, they all kind of team up together. Well, the other day they've got an academic. Imagine the situation that an academic, and this should be the top of the intellectual sense of that word, to side with people who have been transposing someone, cutting, grinding in meat grinding machines, that such a person quotes them and takes sides with them. Such people do not talk about how much perspective this open Balkans agreement will bring benefits to all those living here. No, it's not a topic, because it's good, because what Alexander Wolf does is positive things. Not for one day, not for one second, not one ugly word has ever spoken of anyone from the opposition, but each day he suffers from the best of charges by the butchers, butchers and other lepers who would like to bring Serbia down again. We are here to defend Serbia, to defend the interests of our children, to defend the interests of people living in Serbia, because as a man, I am tired of listening and reading on various portals that some butcher is innocent, that someone somewhere told him to go to Ritopek and I don't know what to do. You poor bastards! Tell us how many new companies will be opened thanks to the agreements we have reached. Tell us how many factories have been opened in Serbia over the past 10 years, how many people are employed. Say that in Serbia this year you don't have any mob murders. Tell me how many tons of drugs have been seized. It's not a topic, but for us it is a topic of increasing standards, increasing wages, increasing pensions, and that is the point of all the agreements that we are voting here, the laws that we are passing and all that we are discussing in our debates in the National Assembly. To make a better life for the citizens of this country, to look at and read positive news in the media, not to be murderers on the front pages, but to make factories, innovators, people who deal with business those who motivate and inspire young people in Serbia, that whoever makes the company and sells it for several hundred million euros and pays taxes in his country, that he is the one who is the main subject and that he does not serve the mockery and ridicule of others in society, that someone laughs at him. That he who speaks foreign languages should be the first in society, not the one who got into a fight, who broke someone's head. Not to be the first tycoon to rob Belgrade and Serbia again, along with his friends, some new butchers and others tomorrow. Serbia's perspective is in development, is in co-operation with everyone in the region, and we want to, and we work together every day, led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, and there is no intention of giving up either the Government of the Republic of Serbia, nor the President, nor the MPs of the SNS in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will fight until the last breath for the interests of Serbia, for the interest of each of our children. Every child in Serbia must have a safe future, a safe perspective. I want to end my exposure to say one more thing, people, all this stuff we're doing is for nothing unless we have more kids. All the roads we make, all the factories, all the bridges, who's gonna keep it? Who will cross these paths, who will travel to them, who will visit our spas, our various cultural historical places, our museums that we talked about yesterday, who will go to them, who will keep it and save it for some of the next centuries, if we don't have children? We, as a people without children, die. We can't protect neither the territory nor what we're building and what we're building today if we don't increase the birth rate. That is why the proposals said by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic for significant increases for the first, second and third children, that Serbia will give maximum, what it can financially and economically, to raise that birth rate in Serbia. It won't be easy, but it also takes a change of consciousness with all of us, to be aware of the responsibility we have, each individually, and we as MPs and people outside this assembly, citizens, that it's not the first career to be built, the first family to be built. It's a pillar without which there's no state, no career, no nothing. If we don't have it, there's nothing. I believe and I am convinced that we will succeed in turning things around, and in that sense, as we have succeeded in the economy, that the next year and the next and the next and the next we have more and more children, and we are finally starting to grow in that sense. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8737	Thank you. The word is Ivana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8738	Thank you, Chairman. The application of the agreement we are talking about today will be of multiple economic importance to our economy, especially with regard to the competitiveness and equalisation of operating conditions on the international market, which will cover the interests of our country as much as possible, as well as the interests of our trading partners in the free trade zone. It is important to point out that every agreement of this kind allows the market to be spread for all products, but also trade under the same conditions for all producers, extends and modernises the free trade domain and, what is very important in addition to the expansion of the market for trade, conditions are met for new investments. It is also important that I point out what President Aleksandar Vukic insists on, which is creating a free trade zone, especially when it comes to the Western Balkans. The Western Balkan countries are opting for economic and economic development, showing they are capable of leading a common economic policy and taking on commitments and responsibilities when it comes to the future of our region. That's exactly what President Aleksandra Vukic's visit to Skopje is about. Yesterday we talked about this and today we are talking about three important key agreements. The first is certainly an agreement to further remove barriers and speed up the movement of goods and services. Then, the Agreement on the common prevention, operation and assistance and support of natural disasters. The third is an agreement to abolish work permits to create a free labour market in the territory of three countries, in the territory of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. This will certainly bring us closer and further to our economies, which is in everyone's interest, that we have better economic growth and that we have a better quality of life and a better standard of our citizens. What President Alexander Vukic is doing is a really big step into the future. Generally, with President Alexander Vukic's policy, we can be proud, because we have managed to preserve our economy, we have managed to save our economy and record great results at the time of the Covid crisis in these difficult times facing the whole world. What really encourages is the fact that these six months in this year we have an 8% growth, which is a great result, and the projection is that in 2021 we will end up with a growth of plus 7%, which will further contribute to improving the quality of life of our citizens and, directly to citizens, it means increasing wages and pensions and further economic development. At the time of the pandemic, we succeeded because of the responsible economy that we had two aid packages last year for our citizens and for our economy. This year we are also implementing the third package of support because of the Kovid crisis. We couldn't have had a responsible policy implemented by President Aleksandar Vukic and there were no difficult reforms he had to implement in 2014. We have thus established the good and healthy foundations on which our economy is based today. If it hadn't been for that, it would have been a question of what would have happened to us. Serbia would certainly have gone to ruin, and it would have been irrevocably, if they had continued to govern Djilas, Jeremic and Tadic and they had decided on the standard of living of our citizens. They have, in fact, devastated Serbia. They were only doing their own business, they were putting money into their own accounts abroad, they were reselling TV seconds, and they were developing their own businesses. Here, let's say, an example. In 2008, we had a GDP of 36 billion euros in Serbia and in just four years, while they destroyed and robbed the Serbian citizens' budget, Serbia's GDP was two billion lower. And so, while GDP was falling in Serbia, public debt grew, and only property of members of the yellow cartel increased. Today, a policy of even development is being represented in Serbia. We are investing in infrastructure throughout Serbia and for President Aleksandar Vukic it is not only Belgrade, but even development from north to south, from east to west, investing in infrastructure, creating conditions and environment for new investments, for new jobs. When we talk about new jobs and employment, let us remember that in 2012, we had a level of unemployment, or unemployment rate and over 26%. It's shrinking year after year and we've managed to bring it down, I repeat, and despite the pandemic, below 10%. We increase the minimum earnings, increase wages and pensions and certainly come to improve the quality of life of our citizens and to increase GDP and expect that in 2021 we will end up with GDP in Serbia with 52 billion euros. Also, I want to point out, when we talk about the standard of living of citizens, it's important to say that we have a clear plan. This is the ‘Serbia 2025’ plan. I am saying this because during the great experts and the great brains that managed Serbia, the average salary in Serbia was 330 euros. We had 556 euros in March this year, and the plan is to have 612 euros in January 2022. Certainly, as I said earlier, what we are running is the "Serbia 2025" plan to make the average salary in Serbia 900 euros by the end of 2025. It's the same situation with pensions. They are not only safe, they are stable and they are regular, they are growing continuously, so the plan is to have an average pension in Serbia of 440 euros in four years. These are all projections on a healthy and realistic basis, unlike the machine brain of Dragan Dilas and his financial experts, such as Dusan Nikezic, who took expensive loans, tasked Serbian citizens before the elections in general to pay salaries and pensions. Like I said, we plan to raise wages and pensions on sound grounds. We managed to help the economy because our economy is stable. Last year, like I said, we had a few aid packages. So we can do it. It is important to say that we have not given up on any single project in Serbia. The highways are built, hospitals are built, schools are built, many are invested in the IT sector, in education, in health care. Serbian citizens see in all parts of our country who take care of them, who leads a responsible policy and therefore give increasing support to President Aleksandr Vukic from the election to the elections, and what they think in tycoons, criminals, also speak clearly to thieves. That is why those in the yellow cartel will not give support and a chance to rob Serbia again, but in all studies they are not in a position to cross the censorship because they do not have a programme, because they are only gathered around the programme, to say under the allegations – the programme, which refers to the spread of hatred towards President Aleksandr Vukic. Now they're teaming up with criminals. The people in Serbia clearly say they will not and will not support President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8739	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have the opportunity today to promote the CEFTA agreement, which was created because the Central European countries that were candidates for membership in the European Union, while these accession negotiations continue, wanted to strengthen their economies and prepare for entry into full membership of the European Union. One way to do this is to remove countries that are candidates, as far as possible, from administrative barriers to economic growth and development. Some of the countries that are founders of CEFTA are already full members of the European Union, one part of the Western Balkan countries whose strategic commitment is full membership in the European Union, but we must be aware that we cannot only wait to become a full member of the European Union, but we must also live and work and prepare for and prepare our economies for competition that will arise when the Western Balkan countries enter the European Union. I can only say this move is improving this original agreement, but I don't know if it's symbolic or not, today the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, has signed three agreements and I believe that all responsible politicians representing or leading their countries in the Western Balkans should be in Skopje today. Why do I say that? I must point out that Serbia is one of the Western Balkan countries, economically, one of the dominant countries. We have the largest territory, the largest number of inhabitants, and it's perfectly natural to have certain economic domination over the others. But in itself, Serbia cannot in such a peaceful environment and survive, but we must, with the development of our economy, help our neighbours to make such a process, because, above all, economies and economies do not know the limits, however self-sufficient we think we are, it is not so, we have to cooperate. I am surprised by the policy of some of our neighbours who, instead of business co-operation, economic co-operation, responsibilities primarily towards their citizens, are starting different conflicts and quarrels with Serbia, causing the greatest damage to their citizens who are most eligible. They are deeply mistaken that in history they will be remembered for fighting with Serbia, and if they are remembered, they will not be remembered for the good. For the past ten years, as far as the SNS is in power, Serbia will be remembered not only for the development of the economy, but also for Serbia wanting to give its hand to everyone for reconciliation, for co-operation, for the development of our countries in the environment, and thus finally, after decades, to give the Western Balkans region the peace needed, political and security security. The process of "mini Schengen", which has begun Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, is certainly a contribution to the CEFTA agreement. Because what you have more important and more beautiful, to co-operate with your neighbours, that all the countries participating in this process benefit each other, that the citizens of all these countries have a better quality of life, and thus Serbia will be remembered. Among other things, only one part, because there are other things that Alexander Vukic will be remembered for, is his move that where we can talk, where we can have results, that we'll open those questions. There are topics we will never agree on with some of our neighbours, but we have put this aside, because Serbia is today leading a responsible policy, both towards its citizens and towards countries and in the environment, and will be remembered for it. Those who are not aware of it and want to live in events that took place two, three or four decades ago will remain in the past, will remain in history and, unfortunately, will do the greatest harm to their citizens. As the former regime will remain in history and Dragan Gilas, which will only be remembered for how much Most on Adi cost, and we could make two highways, since he earned 600m euros, with some 70m euros, 69m euros on various world destinations, that is what Dragan Gilas will be remembered for. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic will be remembered for building the country, doing re-industrious work, raising the standard of living, working on the territory of the Western Balkans, finally establishing peace, security and that we can all live, work and build our countries and progress as a society, as well as improving the standard of living for members of our families. Everyone has chosen their own path. The Serbian Progressive Party with Aleksandra Vukic chose this time, and those who decided to get rich chose a whole other one. I'd like to, we had a chance today to take the oath of state prosecutor Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac, to make sure that the thieves led by Dragan Gilas finally become my fellow citizens, not entirely, it's one place that's two or three kilometers from Pogorec, one institution there, we'll spread their red carpet when they get in and 20 years to wait for them to come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8741	Thank you. The last on the list registered for the word is Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first to welcome the Open Balkans, and here has already been said that Serbia will dominate the market. I believe that. But it can be a variable size. If we do not, if Albania does so better than we do, if it is worth more than we do, if they produce better trade better, they have a chance to dominate, especially in some areas of production, so, let's say, because of the climate, it can be in vineyarding, it can be in vegetable production, etc. Anyway, I believe they're all winners. But I also believe that Serbia will do it faster, because we have learned to produce. The yellow policy, economic policy before us, was that the state supported itself from the person in charge rather than the person who earned it. We turned the thing around. Their policy was – you plant a log and wait for the pig to pop up. In the morning when you get up, during the yellow, they rub their eyes a little bit, come out and pick up the ham. That's about how they imagined economic policy, and that's why we inherited the land we inherited. And now some of the yellow ones, instead of the deserved bone, get some buttocks, even though they didn't deserve it. We compare with the production we build infrastructure, that what we produce, that raw materials and finished products can be transported faster by freight vehicles, restore the railways so that raw materials and finished products can get in and out of our country faster. Our country, like all other small countries, must be committed to exporting, simply to serving out the money we get, the debts that have come back, including those Titos that were 50 years ago, and they expire in one 10 years. We have to keep the population standard at a better level. That's what we need money for, and money's a commodity. By producing goods and infrastructure that it produces, we are gaining primate in this part of the Balkans. What has disappointed me is Montenegro's behaviour, which has not recognised the chance, especially since it is a single market, is a greater chance of developing tourism, various services, etc. I'm sorry. For a long time, we thought Montenegro had separated from Serbia. Montenegro has separated from Serbia, but recently this Milo Krivokapic, who leads the other Mil's policy, is not a lapus, I deliberately said Milo Krivokapic, did so in my opinion to separate Montenegro from itself, not only from Serbia. Lately, Montenegro has separated from itself, its citizens, and especially the citizens of Serbian nationality, in a desire to separate from the citizens of Serbian nationality, they have separated from the entire population and the citizens of Montenegro and are not working for the benefit of their population, to gain some economic benefit, resulting in a better social standard of the population. They simply see in their blindness against Serbia a chance to get a donation, to throw some bone or possibly a smaller butt and thus solve some social problems in which they are deep. Montenegro's public debt has long passed, I think, GDP. Their annual trade deficit seems to me to be over 600m euros, which is 15% of GDP. So Montenegro is going downhill and it is a real shame that it did not recognise the chance to join together with Macedonia, Albania and Serbia to produce some economic result, especially in those areas where it could have done so. In order not to be too long, I have to say that without the production of goods, there are no favors. If you are doing a service, say, if you only trade foreign goods, which was during these yellow cockroaches, then you are doing a service to a foreign economy because you are reviving production in some other countries, because you are simply trading goods that you did not produce, and there is hardly any export. Recently there was a referendum in Switzerland. It was proposed for citizens to receive 2,000 euros, unearthed, from the state, to divide equally. The citizens of Switzerland, for example, refused to receive money that they had not earned from the state, because they understood, were aware enough that the money had to be earned. Imagine now if someone in Serbia had preached what Gilas preached, if we had allegedly been given money to share with the citizens, imagine if someone in Serbia wanted to present, in my opinion, 10 billion, or we have a choice to get 10 billion into investment in the economy. I believe these yellow, unconscious would choose to receive money for a gift. What would happen? Then they would buy foreign goods and revive foreign production and Serbia would sink deeper and deeper. The president of the Republic, who holds the electoral list that I was on, the government of the Republic of Serbia, has already defined within a long time that we are making money, not getting any charity, and Montenegro has obviously not recognised Serbia's style and does not want to follow it. I am also disappointed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which pays more attention to the old wounds, which are burned enough by all three peoples in BiH, pay too much attention to themselves by claiming that, behold, my God, a genocide has been committed against their people, and I say that genocide cannot happen above 0.1 to 0.4% of any population and I am sorry for crimes, but Bosnia and Herzegovina should have been smart enough, as well as Republika Srpska, who would probably have entered this Agreement "Open Balkans", should have used the Republic of Serbia, to come closer to Serbia, because we are a people who speak the same language, Serbian language, I claim that they borrowed. I love that they borrowed Serbian, so the more citizens in the Balkans speak our language. They should have been aware enough to get into a deal like this, because the bigger the market, the greater the chance for development. It is particularly important for agriculture which is a branch where capital is slowly turning, all agriculture, the common European agricultural policy is based on one bigger market than they were national and something they had to learn from the EU in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, that it was created, the economy for the sake of it, agriculture works in the economy the most and that is why they should have joined. It's a shame they didn't do it. I believe that the time and their citizens, and the social inequalities that arise in these countries and the consequences that they will certainly bear because they have not united themselves that it will make them approach and thus make this market grow more and more and that they prove to the European Union in such a way that they are worthy of the European Union because they are more and more "Open Balkans" based on some of the principles on which the European Community was created, later the European Union. To finish with the proverb - there is no pearl in every shell, but we each must open and therefore we must be worthy, wise, dedicated. It is the only way out for Serbia's progress that no one can stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8743	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, someone who has not possibly used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ( b) Could they like the word of the proposing representatives? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8744	Dear President, honourable MPs and MPs, I just want to thank you for the constructive debate today and to say that I am extremely pleased that we were here today in the National Assembly at the same time as this great event in Skopje took place and that we support it. I am pleased that all MPs and MPs supported this great initiative, related to "Mini Schengen" and the single regional market. This is part of, among other things, this current law and all our initiatives aimed at improving the economic situation and at speeding up the development of the Serbian economy. I thank you again for the constructive discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8745	I thank the government for participating in today's debate. According to Articles 27 and 205. Rules of Procedure, I set a break until 4:00 p.m., when we continue to work in the session's session on asking parliamentary questions to the government on the last Thursday of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8746	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, although I suppose you already know them, which concerns the way MPs ask questions: the presentation of MPs asking a question cannot last longer than three minutes, after having answered the MP's question which has asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum of three minutes on the answer to their question or to ask an additional question; after receiving a reply to the additional question, the MP has the right to declare his reply for a maximum period of two minutes and then no further notice by the members of the Government; during the duration of the question-making period, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall be applied accordingly, with which no replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedures are allowed. As you know, the order has been established in the way it is done here in the Assembly, starting with MPs who do not belong to any group, to MPs from least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. National MP Vladan Glisic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8747	Dear Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic, my question concerns the Italian firm Geoks in Vranje, which has announced the closure of its firm these days. In 2016, we gave subsidies of 11mm 250 000 euros to the company, so nine thousand euros per job, we invested another 100 million dinars in building the land needed for the company's work and they will now go and leave 1,200 workers without a job. This is a question that reminds me of what I and other MPs are always talking about for a sovereign relationship with our economy and our survival, which is the problem of the political price we pay because we are economically related to the EU and, above all, to Italy and Germany, where two thirds of our economic life is related to them. At the time of the economic crisis that is driven by the crown's pandemic, but at the same time it is possible to announce a major economic collapse that will occur in the west, the question arises whether we are ready and why we are not working on substituting our economic development from life in terms of binding to China and some other economic forces that are not related to the political West and their capital, their investments, their investments, do not have a political price that we can pay in terms of the blackmail we receive from Brussels, Washington and similar metropolis? So in that sense, that's the question. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this substitution of economic life that we need, of course SNS as a party that advocates politics that the EU has no alternative, may not think so, but when we look at the moves and your government and some previous governments under the influence of SNS, it must be noted that you have also embarked on some kind of substitution of integration and other economic forces. However, as long as we have two thirds of our economic life related to the EU, we are also very blackmailing about all our national interests. In that sense, I would remind myself of something that I spoke in the Assembly of similar topics when it came to loans from the EU, that in 1903, the Kingdom of Serbia, within three years, substituted its economic life against Austro-Hungarian and welcomed the Customs War in 1906 and managed to find allies who helped our exports, which was completely dependent on Austria, to be made available to other markets. That's how we won that Customs War. It was three years, from 1903 to 1906, when we changed our policy of commitment to the Austro-Hungarian Empire which was against our national interests, and the SNS has been in power for nine years and we still have this dependence on the EU. Regardless of whether or not you agree with it, I am interested specifically in the "Geoxa" issue, what can be done, but perhaps if you are willing to answer about the substitution of Serbia's economic dependence on the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8748	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. I should also like to thank the prime minister and the members of the government for having had the presence of both her and most members of the government since the beginning of each scheduled day of the month. To thank me for this attitude toward the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8749	Thank you. Like this, my answer will have two parts. One is generally about investment and your theory. The second is, of course, about ‘Geoks’ itself. As far as investment is concerned, I think you're completely wrong. I don't agree with you, but literally not a single percent. German companies, when you say first of all from Germany and Italy, German companies are currently hiring a little over 71,000 people in the Republic of Serbia. You are just talking about German investors who can hear all of this as some of the worst investors in Serbia, are opening some of the best and best-quality jobs, too, the best-paid jobs. German investors are, by all we see at this time, and the experience we have with German investors, one of the best investors, globally, and also in Serbia. So, just during the pandemic of the coronary virus, we had new German investments. German investors have not only not given up on Serbia, but have continued to invest, expand their business in Serbia, as well as new German investments to come to Serbia, which is one of the best signals when we talk about the attractiveness of a country for foreign direct investments, because it is known that, for example, German investments, Japanese investments, which by nature are the most conservative and most careful, are looking for the most transparent and best business environment, that all other investors are following them. So, I think it's really inconclusive of a single MP to talk so casually about EU investors, and in particular, I would say to German investors. We have a "Continental" that, for example, went to invest in Serbia, went slowly. Then we opened the Continental Research Development Centre in Novi Sad. There are hundreds of young Serbian engineers who have received highly paid jobs, have continued to expand, have expanded their development centre further and are now on their way to build another drive, where all of these innovations that our brains are going to come up with will also be produced in Serbia. One MTU is indeed an example of a responsible, transparent, strong investor, and this is an amazing reference for Serbia, the Fisher Automotive that came to Jagodin. So, we see, despite the difficult economic situation, even in Germany itself, throughout Europe, around the world, that these investors continue to come and invest in Serbia. These are extremely high-quality investments, investment in innovation, in new technologies, in additional value products, where wages are well above the republican average, which is now quite above what was in 2012 and well above the average wage in all other Western Balkan countries. As Serbia develops, as the minimum labour price, i.e. the minimum wage rises and the average wage rises, investors who have been coming to Serbia will slowly leave Serbia because of cheap labour. We've been preparing for this since 2016. When we saw in 2015 that difficult reforms were being achieved and how responsibly implemented and how they were implemented, that they were giving results and faster than we expected, we knew then that we were already in 2018, 2019, going down to one-digit unemployment, so for the first time since the measure of unemployment in Serbia, that it was one-digit, that we would then slowly start to have a problem with the workforce and the availability of the workforce, then as a consequence of that, they would start to grow because investors would start fighting for people, which is all we wanted to happen in the Republic of Serbia. We have invested significantly more in education, innovation, research and development, in introducing dual education to raise the level of our skills and skills of our people, and to start bringing investment with this greater added value, investments that can follow the trend of pay, not only to actually follow it, but to impose a standard in this wage growth and that is where we are today. So it's not about Italian investors, it's not about these or those investors. You simply have investors who, by their nature of business, are labour-intense investments with low added value and go where the minimum wages are. Serbia is no longer, as we have discussed, a country of cheap labour and this will be a problem, if I can add, I think, not a bad problem, which we will have increasingly in the future and what will happen is that, instead of these investors, better investors will come, investors who will produce additional value for our economy, who will pay more for our workers, who will also appreciate their working time, their skills and their skills and their knowledge. That's what's going to happen in Vranj. So it has nothing to do with the EU or European investors. It's something that happens naturally in every country that manages to rise to one next economic level. Now for all those who criticized all the things I said when I was on a weekend visit to the Phinj County, let me tell you a few things. Our average salary in 2012 was 366 euros. Our average salary at the end of 2020 reached 511 euros. That's a 145-euro difference. So 145 euros is a higher average salary in 2020 compared to where Serbia was in 2012. The "Geoksom" team boasted Boris Tadic and then the government, and there it was all good, it was 1,200 jobs, but they were then looking for a country in this part of Europe that had the lowest wages and the highest workers could bring. Our unemployment was over 25% at the time, and our salaries were at the level of Albania, Northern Macedonia. You today have Serbia where unemployment is, and despite the crowns, around 9.3%, where you have an average salary of 511 euros, where every year a minimal, or minimum labour price, jumps significantly, and where they know that the average salary will go up in 2022 and that the minimum wage will increase from 1 January 2022. Of course, these work-intense investments go to other countries where for the same money or the same investment they can buy a lot more of someone's working hours. This is not Serbia anymore, and that is what we have been trying to achieve, so that Serbia will not be a country of cheap labour. Let me tell you one more thing. So all these people now have significant work experience and significant references. Serbia today is a country that is credible for investors, a country that has been a world leader three times over the past few years in attracting foreign direct investment, where investors themselves come. We'll hire these people, we won't let them down and they won't lose their jobs. When we're done with that, these people will have bigger salaries, those people will have a better perspective. That crow will have a better perspective. That budget of the city of Vranja will be fuller. So that's one normal transition. Now remember and return to my exposés in 2017. At the time, I was saying that our mission and our primary goal are to move into a transformation from an economy based on labour-intense investment that is the difolt economy of cheap labour to an economy based on knowledge and innovation. That's our goal, and we're slowly moving towards that goal, and this is part of that transition. After all, you know how, it couldn't have happened overnight either. Also, when I see those on-call critics who say, well, well, who brought those investments. You know, "geoks" brought someone else, but it doesn't matter. If I were them, and I'd bring "Geokes" then because when you have an unemployment rate of over 25% and you don't have any credibility with foreign investors, you have to fight for them and you have to bring in work-intense investments to hire your people. In doing so, when you are not known as a country that is good for investment, you cannot bring a research and development centre "Continental", you cannot bring a MTU, you cannot bring a Chinese "Heisens". You can't, because they don't believe you. In order to look at Serbia then in 2012, for example, the Duing Business List of the World Bank, which shows how good you are to invest, could see that we are 92th in the world. We were on the last list of 44. So, you build credibility, you bring in better and better investors, you invest in knowledge, abilities, in the skills of your people, and you run that transition. That's all we've done in the last five years when we saw that we pulled the country out of bankruptcy, from a certain economic downturn. So these investments go away too. That's what "Geoxa" and investment are all about. We won't let the Vranj people down. I didn't want to cancel my trip. I wanted to be there. I wanted to be in Pcinj County, and I wanted to be in Vranj, and I wanted to talk to local self-government, with the executives, with the leaders of the city of Vranj about what we are currently doing, even though we are working together, and what will continue to happen. Let me tell you, in the end, as for the diversification of investments, yes, you've well noticed that we're going to diversify investments, but not to have less European or Western and more Chinese or Russian, but to have more and more Western and Chinese, and that's what's happening and that's why Serbia is now much, much stronger, economically strong country where average wages and minimum wage are slowly growing. Is there a great living in Serbia? Again, let me be perfectly clear -- no, but there is a clear perspective because the trend in salary growth, let me tell you, since 2015, when we have practically completed our fiscal and macroeconomic consolidation in just about 18 months -- pay 2015 is 368 euros, 2016 374 euros, 2017 395 euros, 2018 420 euros, 2019 in 466 euros, in 2020 511 euros. I believe we'll be able to make it to Karaj in 2021 to cross the average salary of 600 euros. No, you don't live well, but you can see a clear trend. You can see a much stronger state, you can see a much better quality of life for our citizens and for our workers in all areas and in all universes. Finally, labour-intense investors, i.e. investors who invest in work-intense production processes, say – people cannot support this. Serbia is no longer a country of cheap labour and is no longer a country for us. We go where labour is cheaper, and that is now, if you want in the region, both northern Macedonia and Albania and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bulgaria will be there soon. So that's what's happening and I repeat, we knew it was going to happen and we were preparing for such changes. So we're working on my most important message – we're not going to let the Geox workers down. We'll be there and we'll find them better jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8750	Thank you. Ambassador Glisic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8751	Our satirists say -- statistics on our Dick, whatever he wants, what he paints. But of course I don't want to be cynical, I believe in the word you said about economic parameters, I believe in all that, and I believe that you will solve the problem of the Vranj workers, but there remains a problem of the essence of my question. I understand that the Germans are the most serious investors. The Germans were always known for being disciplined and obeying the rules when they occupy us and when they make investments. So it's our historic experience with them, no matter how funny it looks to you, it's not funny, it's never been funny, so with the Germans we have a thousand reasons to be careful. We also need to be aware that they don't work here as humanitarian workers. If they invest I guess they have some interest, if they don't have an interest they'll leave. Therefore, surely their interest in investment here is transformed into profits that they make and that they earn. And that's all right. However, the question remains -- would they, as the country most sponsoring Kosovo's independence from Serbia, as the country that created the UCK, as a country that acts hostile to us in continuity, be it true that you expect them to have their economic involvement in our lives, this interference that they have will never use as a form of political blackmail? So if that's the case, and we can tell from experience with the Germans that that's the case, then we really have a problem, no matter how good it is for us that they invest and develop and everything else. One day they will, as Austro-Hungarian did. It was a German empire, among other things, to say it – so you know what Serbia is, just so much fighting over the survival of Kosovo and the Metohija in Serbia, it's a little unrealistic, that you fight so hard to keep the Republic of Serbia from drowning in BiH, and it's a little unrealistic and it's all unrealistic because if you continue to act like you might remember that we can use our investments as a kind of political pressure and blackmail. So I understand that it's as prime minister to you as well. Serbia's prime interest in raising the standard of life of citizens tactically at the moment, to find all ways to develop economically. But life is not just an economy, the state is not just an economy, the state is not just an economy. The state is also security, especially in times to come. A state like Serbia, which is surrounded by very hostile countries, which has been shown very much in recent days, is also a country that has to take care of security and therefore is a matter of the political price of so many German interferences in our economy, because to tell you honestly, you may believe them, I don't trust them.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8752	Thank you. Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8753	I have indeed listened to various conspiracy theories and incredible claims in the last assembly of this congregation. This belongs to that category. Do businesses or investors have an interest? Well, of course they have an interest in investing somewhere. How do you think they have no interest and they won't invest here? They're all businessmen. They're German, Italian, American, Russian, French and German and Chinese and all of them. No, you're going to invest somewhere without interest. It's just a question of whether your country has that interest. The responsible government says - well, that's your interest, this is my interest. When our interests coincide, which is that my people are employed, that they have good salaries, that they have stable jobs, that they can afford better quality of life, that you pay all taxes so that you can build roads, railways, hospitals, homes of health, schools, kindergartens, etc. Then we have a common interest and then these investments are developing in your country and your country. We're not talking about their interest. It is understood that when they arrive they have an interest in coming. I have to think about our interest and we have it here. Let me ask you -- if you think that this economy is so much related to this policy, especially in countries like Germany, why didn't they come from 2000 to 2012? They could then come with investments, employ all our people, develop their plants, factories here and influence who will lead this country in both direction and how it will treat Kosovo or not. It has nothing to do with politics. You know why they didn't come? Because we were at the bottom of the World Bank list on conditions of business in Serbia, because it was known that we had no public administration, that it was inefficient, that it was corrupt, that it was non-transparent, that we were not investing in education, that there was no perspective, that they had no interest. We couldn't until 2017 when we only managed to raise and build this credibility as a good investment destination to bring three billion euros of foreign direct investment never. I say three billion because it was constantly estimated that three billion euros, I remember well, were needed for sustainable growth and the development of Serbia's economy and our country. We bounced back in 2006 when we were 3.3, but why don't I count that year? Well, because in 2006, we had 1.5 billion euros from the Mobtel sale of Telenor. It's a classic sale. The investor didn't come, so he developed something further here in Serbia or hired some additional people. In 2011 3.3 also, but then "Delta" was sold to Delese for practically a billion euros. So that's what pushed your average that year. So it doesn't make any sense what you're saying, when you look at investment and politics, it would make a lot more sense if they came back then after 2000 than they do today. No, they're looking for efficient management, good business conditions, predictability, credibility, trained labour, people who know what they're doing, investment in education, where we've been completely singled out since 2016 and connected schools to the Internet and in 2017 by introducing programming and coding as mandatory subjects in primary schools and investing in research and development, so now we're the first time on the UNESCO list of countries that invest in research and development among the first 15 countries in the world and, of course, extremely important, one of the most important things we're investing in dual education, which since this academic year we're expanding to universities. So we can talk politically if you think it brings you some political points, okay, of course it's all allowed in politics, but I think the right to tell you what you're talking about is an empty story and that you know it's an empty story, but it sounds good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8754	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8755	If we concentrate, just what's been going on in the last ten years it might seem like some lunatic fell into the Assembly to talk about that there are some Germans who haven't done terrible things here in two wars, who didn't participate in the bombings of Serbia in 1999, who didn't form the KLA, who weren't sponsoring them under the terms of Kosovo independence, means only if there weren't no such Germans and if there were no such historical experience then all of what I'm saying would be conspiracy theory. On the other hand, it is true that they come to where society is arranged because simply the economy wants to extract profits, but it is also true that the German economy has huge damages to sanctions that the German state has imposed on the Russian Federation, but still when the state elite decided to do so under the address of Brussels and Washington, the German economy had to suffer those sanctions and had to suffer the damage it has and to listen to its country. I keep repeating, and what if the German state told all these wonderful investors that they should use their investments as a kind of pressure on our authority the moment our behavior didn't like those in Brussels and Washington and Berlin? So it's just amazing that you don't see that possibility in a world where sanctions are constantly happening, in which sanctions are an uninterrupted political decision that damages the economies of various states and then call it conspiracy theory and, at the very least, unserious. As to why they have to invest more today and be more sensitive than in 2000 to 2012, so perhaps for one reason why today there are Chinese investors who did not exist in this space 10 years ago, there is what they call a Russian malignant influence, which is pointless, because the only malignant influence we have in Serbia since the poored uranium they threw away in 1999. So now that we have both Russia and China, they have to be more sensitive from 2000 to 2012 they could let Serbia disappear and make all their interests come true through ambassadors and political classes. It's not like that today.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8756	Thank you. Let's move on. MP Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8757	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, Prime Minister, respected ministers, before I ask a question I would like to thank Prime Minister and Minister Irene Vujovic for visiting the municipality of Prepolje on July 6th, which opened a reconstructed Sarampovski Bridge in Prepolje. For the reconstruction of that bridge, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out 216 million dinars that we have had the implementation of the closure of the non-sanitary dump of Stanjevina and thank you for that, and I hope that in the next period we will continue to invest in the space of the Sanjah municipalities. My question is to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Police. Are you satisfied with the results of the fight against organised crime and corruption? Can we now say that we're going to the second stage of this struggle where the police are transferring to both the prosecution and the courts, and can we say at this stage of the struggle that we have a kind of counter-attack of the mob? Let me explain. I'm worried about two things today. One at the state level, one at the local. We are the only European country in which the Prime Minister was killed in the 21st century, and then before that accident, and the tragedy, we had a situation for murderers to visit the media and issue statements. We had the satanization of the then Prime Minister, that he was the head of the tobacco mob. What worries me is, if families of the largest state authorities, no matter who the prime minister is, ministers are exposed to attacks, they're not sure what kind of message we're sending to the citizens who are watching us right now. The other thing that worries me has a local level – when we will have a more intense fight against crime and corruption, I especially think of Novi Pazar. A line of local political powers, criminals and foreign intelligence is obvious and must not be tolerated. The scenes of violence that we get to see from time to time are not scenes of citizens who are now, for some reason, going wilder prices for calculating criminals who have local protection, but to God, we and the protection of individual foreign services. The second question is referred to by the Minister of Health, but also by the Prime Minister – what is the situation regarding the pandemic? Can we expect some measures? The question for the Minister of Health is – what is the situation regarding the health center of Prepolje and when will we have the implementation of the organs of the health center?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8758	Okay. I wanted to interrupt you for three minutes. Minister Vulin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8759	Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Chairman, respected fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, comrades and comrades, I thank you for this question. The fact that the police did what they did when it came to fighting organized crime. One of the most organized, and certainly the most brutal organized criminal group, not only in these areas, I can say freely in Europe, is deprived of freedom. More than 30 members of this group have been arrested and, in line with the results of the investigation, some other members of this organised crime group will also be arrested. As the investigation takes place, that's how you get new evidence, new information, you treat them, of course the D.A.'s office is familiar with it. They give us proper warrants and these people end up behind bars. We will never stop fighting organised crime, it will always be, but the essence of a state organisation is that each next organized criminal group is less organized, less numerous and less dangerous. It doesn't come in time to take so long to become so dangerous and so cruel. So that's our job. I expect within the legal time limit that the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime will come up with a charge against this bank, that in one sure way I will prove to myself everything that we have heard about in public and that in the best possible way they will give a message about how it is calculated and what is the logical end of anyone who deals with crime, especially people who have dared to take human lives. However, the fact is that there is a wave of organised prepared efforts to relativise the gang's crimes and to use them as a means of political struggle and as a means of political blackmail. You mentioned the time when the tragically injured and killed Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, at the time, Aleksandar Vukic, I, many here in this House, were in opposition and did not then read the statements of the accused in which they say, will remind me of a statement by Milorad Ulemek, saying that he and Zoran Djindjic smuggled about 600kg of heroin over Drina. None of us from the opposition then took a pay phone, organised a press conference, found three analysts and two lawyers and said that the Zoran Djindjic family was heard, that the government was immediately shot down, that all members of the government were arrested or shifted, because behold, a man said that he and Zoran Djindjic had smuggled hundreds of kilos of heroin. It didn't occur to us to do something like that, because we knew first that it wasn't true, and secondly, we knew that the defendant had the right to lie to protect himself and not use such things, because it destroys the state. We were in opposition and it would be the easiest thing for us to get a political point on that. It didn't occur to us that none of us would do such a thing, because we knew it wasn't done. On the other hand, here you can see that you have Belivuk and Miljkovic, the others have agreed to defend themselves with silence, whose every word is conveyed as dry truth. Now he's already on trial based on it. At first, it was something to check, now it's a done verdict, now all they say is absolutely true, the prosecution, the court has nothing to worry about, they have nothing to deal with, it's all true. And it's all done entirely in advance of the famous recipe. First, you arrange with criminals what they will say, pay attention, only two people say – Belivuk, Miljkovic, the other members of organised crime groups are defended by silence, silence and wait for what will happen and what will the lawyers tell them. When they get information about what they have to say, who they have to attack, then they pass on what they said, someone with more, someone with less skill, to convey what they said, and to say by some miracle, to certain media. Here I think of KRIK, I mean "New Adriu", here is now engaged and "Nin" about it, not to lag behind, I think, how they don't have that information, and when they get that, they start to carry it with less and less guidance -- maybe, apparently, if it's true, it's already being transmitted as something that's absolutely true. When it comes out to the public, it is always precisely defined in advance by well-known analysts and politicians who take over that information, they comment and now their comments and their conclusions are passed on without calling for a choice, rather than conveyed as news, as their statement. Then their statements are re-translated to go out again in the media in a region that completely ignores the source. There is no explanation who said, what he said, but only from it - organised crime, the government runs organised crime, Aleksandar Vukic, Aleksandar Vulin, two men who run organised crime in Serbia and then you read, morning, another morning paper in Croatia, some other portals in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then it comes back to our media as news that came from abroad, and again. So Mark Miljkovic's statement is transferred to three different media outlets in three different days. Not suddenly, because he was given all of a sudden, you know, but to have every day new information that you comment on and go through all of this again. So, fully organized and prepared and you now hear, you had, I don't know, some lawyer, I don't even know what his name is, who comes out and says, the defense of Mark Miljkovic is much more accurate, more coherent, more credible than those who defend themselves. Interestingly, they forget to write that lawyer is a member of the party's leadership, Vuk Jeremic. But that doesn't matter, he's a lawyer, he's an expert, you know, that in the party of Vuk Jeremic has nothing to do with his attitude. You have that academic or whatever his name is, Tiodorovic, Theodorovic, who comes out and says, "boycott of all things," and then starts counting, everything that has to do with the state needs to be boycotted, eventually boycotted by kids at school, so just kids won't want to hang out with other kids, because for God's sake, these are kids from someone else. Then he comes out and says, "I trust Belivuk and Miljkovic more than Vukić and Vulina." It's true, you're right, and you need to trust Belivuk and Miljkovic more. That's right. He's looking forward to something like that. Of course you should trust them. We don't need you to trust us. Trust the two of them and stick to their beliefs. Then you get to it, knowing all of this and our competent services have prepared us and warned that this scenario will take place. They're not so unrecognizable, they leave enough clues that we can send out, and when we know that they're going into a crime relativisation action, and when they're going to move into action that crime, they're actually on the side of those who arrested, who broke the mob, and when they release the relevant information, I specifically showed a few photos on TV to see what kind of villains we're dealing with, then it's no longer a question whether they were killing, torturing, dealing drugs, blackmailing, recalibrating, but who released the information that they were killing and recarating. What's the right of the state to say that someone was killing and recalibrating? In the same newspaper text, I read where it is said, in the passage of Belivuk and Miljkovic, someone from “Time” I am not sure who he is, says – everyone is innocent until proven otherwise, and then at the end of that text where the name Alexander Vukic says – he would have to answer for what he was doing. Wait, is there any presummation of innocence for everyone or just for bloodlocks and murderers, or is it just those who participated in this gang, killed, tortured people, who are presummated by innocence? They're innocent until proven otherwise, and all of us who arrested them, who broke that gang, it's our fault. If it's your fault we broke them and arrested them, then I accept that guilt. I accept being attacked by the mob, I deserve it. As protection from the mob has been earned by others, each by their own actions or by their own inaction, each by their own merit. At this point in Serbia, especially in the media structure, is supported by political structures, attempts to relativise the gang's crimes and try to turn into a political factor, a factor that should affect future elections, affect voters. Nobody says what they were doing anymore, but it's about whether I own the house in Ritopek and Marko Miljkovic very eloquently, wisely, as God has given it, says – I chose that house, and then I said – don't go into that garage, only I will enter that garage, and there is a slaughterhouse in that garage where he and his comrades killed their victims. So it's not him, it's me. This shall be transmitted as fully relevant information, as a completely correct position. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this assembly how many times in the heat of battle is there said something, so an explanation is sought for what is said, an argument is required. There's no argument here, enough to say something like that and it becomes news. Now you have to defend yourself against that news. I'll tell you right now, I'll be the happiest if I can answer any of these questions in front of the cameras on the polygraph, but if all of Serbia sees it, they'll ask me -- have I ever seen Mark Miljkovic or Belivuk in my life? Have I ever communicated with them in any way? Have I ever asked them for anything in my life? Have I ever heard of a house where they killed and slaughtered? Is there any verbal, non-erbal communication with these villains and murderers? I'd like to see them on that polygraph, too. But nothing that matters, it's important that we waste the time we need to spend both in breaking this gang and explaining that this can't happen again, that we have to explain that what murderers and carnivores are saying isn't true. They've tried and tried for years to make Alexander Vukic and his family make criminals, every family member, up to the fact that little Vulcan, that he can't run away either, that he'll be arrested at the airport, a child not four years old, and that'll be arrested at the airport. It's done planically and it's done on purpose. When you dehumanize a man completely, when he's no longer human, when he's just some kind of moral freak, you're looking for someone who, with such a man, that freak, will cross over, who will be the hero of a nation. You're making the impression that the great majority of Serbs are actually ready to liquidate this man and that it's only good who's going to be first. Recently, a few days ago, I read in the paper where it comes out and it's said, "What was, "arise or survival?" Well, read where it's said -- if the electoral conditions aren't right, we're going to the streets, we're going to fight to the violent fall of this regime, because as it says, I think the president of what's left of DS, who's used to entering the Assembly, burning her up, says -- if there's no free choice, the people have the right to rebel, and he decides what the free elections are and what's going to be. Then you get to the point where lawyers take it upon themselves that they're judges and prosecutors and they decide who's to blame, and they don't ask no profession, no justice, not knowing anything about the case, but just coming up and saying this or that's his fault. When you do something like that and you do something like that, you have a clear intention and a desire for evil to happen, you desire it, and you seek it, you call for evil to happen. That's why you've been making criminals and mobsters from Alexander Vukic and his family for years. And after all these years, no single evidence, no single credible sentence that would lead in that direction. As we listen, here are nine years, we know each other, we've heard for nine years that Aleksandar Vukic confessed to Kosovo yesterday, here's nine years not recognised Kosovo, and nine years we've been fighting for Kosovo and Metohija, and here's nine years I've heard how Republika Srpska was sold yesterday, and here's nine years of Republika Srpska and the Republic of Serbia getting tighter, stronger and more complicated. That's how it is with crime. For nine years, I've heard that Danilo Vukic is a criminal, that Andrej Vukic is a criminal, that little Vulcan has to answer, that Alexander Vukic, of course, is a criminal, his father, mother, everything, every member of his family, every member of his family is specially treated as someone who doesn't have a human face. Of course it's deliberate and of course it's not an accident, and of course it's done with intent and to hurt that man, to influence his judgment, to influence his decision, to influence his will and his ability to do what he does, but also to create an atmosphere in Serbia where all this is allowed and everything is normal. Such dehumanisation has not been seen in any European country. Try to find me a country in our environment, go further, wherever you're going to show me that this is happening to the first man in this country and his family. Try to find me a country in which it will be completely relevant and normal that one of the suspects, soon and guilty, of the most serious crimes, the most monstrous crimes, that his word has the same weight as the word of the Prime Minister, the Home Secretary, and that it is fully equated. Try to find it somewhere. Can you imagine El Chapo explaining that he had nothing to do with drugs, but that the Prime Minister was dealing cocaine with him? You can't imagine. Can you imagine the leaders of the Mexican drug cartels that were delivered to the United States where they say yes, yes, we did it with Obama, and Trump was moving something? And that's totally relevant. In Serbia alone, you have enough media and enough politicians, you have, I think, that Alexic, until yesterday was your colleague, who says -- regime propaganda against Belivuk and Miljkovic, propaganda. Is it necessary to say anything other than to show what these villains have done? Do you need propaganda for something like that? They still complain that the state has the courage to show it and that it has the courage to stand behind what it's been doing and not let this ever happen again. I am truly proud to be with Alexander Vukic and to try to hurt us and insult us in the same way and on the same side. A man chooses his own friends in life, and what his enemies choose, they choose him infallibly, and they know exactly why they chose him. As your friends speak of me, so do your enemies. Your enemies speak infallibly. As far as your second question is concerned, New Market is a security space for which I, as Minister of the Interior, am not satisfied. We're working intensively with the police department, and we've named more people at the bar, we're trying to fill in everything, fill in all those places that haven't been filled in. You know we've held a gendarme for 58 days, which is no solution, it's a tool that solved something at that point, but it didn't solve anything systemically. As for the specific situation in Novi Pazar, I remain in your debt to answer and remain in your debt and to see you both in Novi Pazar and to talk, but also with all the political factors, as well as with the security factors. I believe the New Market needs help. We know how exposed he is, from close to the border, to the various political influences that are clearly being achieved there. You have one completely objective thing. After the closure of Western Europe for the crown, many members of the criminal groups were expelled from those countries or unable to return, they returned to Novi Pazar. There was an immediate recognition of each other. Of course there was a conflict. We all have to show together that as a state we are able to find a system response, if it's about human change -- and human change, I'm not running away from it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8760	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8761	Thank you. I expect answers from the health minister, so I have asked a clear question as to the new measures and when it comes to the establishment of a health center in Prepolje, as far as it comes with the organs. Next set of questions. First of all, thank you, Minister of Police, for your reply. A picture that we, unfortunately, often have the opportunity to see is not a picture of the New Market, these are irresponsible individuals, but what we especially need to examine is a tenth, and perhaps hundreds of people on the payroll of some other countries. I'm very interested in why people pay you. In conversations, we'll open that topic. What is my question is, today in Skopje, a meeting of the leaders of the country's "mini Schengen" initiative was held. I think most of the public see it as a formal meeting, it is a very important initiative and I expect, a question for the Prime Minister – what are the projections of the impact on our exports, GDP and the creation of new jobs, when it comes to the "mini Schengen" initiative? We as the strongest Bosniak party support this, and I call on other countries, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, to join this initiative. Question for Minister of Education Ruzic – is the Ministry of Education familiar with the problems that are culminating at the State University in Novi Pazar these days? Professors Škrilj, Mulic and Professor Vukanic were fired only because they informed the ministry that the former rector did not meet the conditions to run for office. People are brutally punished by firing their jobs just because they gave themselves the right to think. I wonder if you're aware of what's going on with the New Market dormitory. So that's something we absolutely cannot tolerate, and I expect your answer. I respect your work very much, but this is a situation that really threatens to culminate. People have been doing their job very responsiblely for years, and now someone is giving himself the right to shut them down. The question of a dormitory is a very important issue and I expect a concrete answer, as well as a health minister who has remained in charge of answering the last block of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8762	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8763	I'm sorry, I was supposed to answer a part of this first question, so I'm gonna answer it now. Let me just say two words or two about the Belivuk case and everything that's been going on in the last week or something more than that and say that we've seen again the kind of political struggle that I don't think ever, in Serbia's history, has ever been seen. I think part of the opposition has hit a new bottom. When it comes to murderers and criminals like Miljkovic and Belivuk, and we were all able to see what they were and how they were doing, then it's only natural that regardless of political opinion or political belonging, regardless of who you love politically or not, to say, let's unite and support the fight against such murderers and criminals, we will support you and we will do it together, because it has nothing to do with politics. A normal man, though decent, I don't think he'd ever let himself say or think, "Oh, look, maybe I can use this for a political fight, raise my own ratings, and knock someone else out of power." Unfortunately, this is happening in Serbia today, and this is what we see, not to talk about this testimony because psychopaths and murderers but also generally the most common criminals can say whatever they want in their defenses, and most often they do, most often twist the facts, information the most dangerous, most brutal lie, which is not foreign to them. Who can be foreign to lying if he can cut people into pieces and make kebabs out of them. So their lie is indeed, I think, not particularly difficult. So it's not about what they're saying, it's about who and how they're using their testimony, their words, their lies. Can you say that you trust such psychopaths and murderers more than anyone else in this world, who didn't kill anyone, to begin with? What kind of man are you if you can say more I trust Belivuk and Miljkovic, since you saw what they were doing, than not to mention the legitimately elected president of your country? What kind of man are you? What kind of politics are you propagating and what kind of country would you like to see? Any, even a country where Belivuk and Miljkovic are at large, as long as Alexander Vukic is not the president. It's their policy. Is that their policy? Is this the new bottom we touched in the political struggle in the Republic of Serbia? So instead of being serious, we're united against murderers and criminals. No, their policy is -- we are united with murderers and criminals, against Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Let's just hear it loud and clear. Because that's how it is. Everything we've seen in the last ten days says that and says nothing else. I say again, it's completely irrelevant to me what he said. I don't care what people like that say. Indeed, human is irrelevant to me. It's more and more the thing of an institution that I believe in. But how someone took advantage of it, to which end, I find it scandalous, and more than that. It's very sad. That you are so politically powerless and hopeless, as part of our political opposition that not only are the relevant words of Miljkovic and Belivuk, but you call on them and quote such people. So, where did you guys come from? Don't you think you no longer belong in politics? Isn't this the only thing that tells you that you don't belong in politics anymore? If you have nothing to say against Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government, but you are calling on Belivuk, I think you are done with politics. I think they ended up a while ago, but this is really the point to that story. Personally, I want to really give all the support and courage to Alexander Vukic and Alexander Vulin, who was brutally attacked, just because he's doing his job responsibly, and as well as Alexander Vukic, he first put his head in the bag and his family on the line. Because when you're dealing with people like that, when you're fighting people like that and it's open like that, you really get up every day you can wonder if you're going to live through the night or not. And that's true, especially because not all of them are in prison today, but there are a lot of those who are free, who are still chasing with the support and help of foreign partners and who are more dangerous than ever, but when they get that political and media support they get from here, they, how much stronger they are and how much more powerful they are. I just wanted to say so much about this case that somehow once again, it would be quite clear to people what this is all about and what's going on here. As for the truly incredibly positive initiative that President Aleksandar Vukic launched some time ago, the Mini Schengen initiative that has been called "Open Balkans" or "open Balkans", which is one of the most beautiful things that have happened to us politically and economically in recent decades, so I think since the conflicts in these areas of the 1990s, and one of the things that is currently for our economy and quality of life, perhaps the most important initiative, to start just from now, that I don't really list the concrete benefits that we're going to come from, but to start from just what kind of signal co-operation, understanding, better relations, different futures in these areas, of course at this point between Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania, I hope soon and some other partners from the Western Balkans. I cannot understand a policy where some still think whether to join or not, especially I cannot understand the policy of those who criticise the Open Balkans initiative, indeed you are giving a completely different signal, primarily to young people in these areas. Today, agreements have been signed for three important things. One is easier trade, easier transport of goods, the other is practical, free movement and opening of the labour market, so free movement of people looking for a job or wanting to apply for a job in these three countries and the third is co-operation in the case of natural disasters. So we are generally much stronger, if you want in natural disasters, which, unfortunately, today we see almost every month some natural disaster, even in the countries of Europe, in countries around the world, will unfortunately be here, but from now on, we are much stronger and together. I think according to some of our forecasts that this now depends on the degree of implementation of this initiative, but in full co-operation with the envisaged Open Balkans initiative, so full freedom of movement of goods, capital of people, services, this can contribute to our GDP with an additional 3%, which is truly amazing and what it says about everything that we could do further if the whole Balkans joined. But about that then, this is more than a great start and I know what enthusiasm and President Alexander Vukic, as well as Prime Minister Zaev and Prime Minister Rama. I have honestly followed closely with great impatience everything that happened yesterday in Skopje today and all the further conversations about things that will be done in the future. Finally, as far as the epidemiological situation is concerned, so it certainly gets complicated and worse from day to day, that growth cannot be compared to what we saw in the previous waves thanks to the fact that we already have, I would say 50% of the adult population that was vaccinated. It would be much better if we were close to 60% or 70%, and so once again I ask people to vaccinate, especially young people, and protect the elderly population who have already spent some time from poverty and to protect our health system from further impact, so from people who are going to be hospitalized. Due to the covids at this point, our health system does not suffer again because we built a covid hospital in Belgrade, a covid hospital in Krusevec. Soon, we will end up in a Kovid hospital in Novi Sad, so that all new cases are received exclusively in a hospital cove, which allows us to work the rest of the health care system uninterrupted and provide assistance and support to the rest of the population. I'm finally just going to read you today's numbers vaccinated. So at this point, we have 2,687,143 full-time residents of the Republic of Serbia who have been vaccinated, which is 49.8% so we are practically 50% vaccinated. Even 53 local self-governments have over 50% vaccinated. That's where recently, so, in the last week, I think Daria talked about it yesterday too, joined by the Ojacs, the Golubac, Gajin Han, Panchevo, the Svilian, and from today on Sokobanja. We have ten local self-governments that are close to 50%, but unfortunately we have eight more local self-governments that are below 30% vaccinated and Tutin that are still not at 15% vaccinated, so I'm asking you to see together what to do extra for Tutin and Novi Pazar to protect these people, to talk to them, to explain to them how safe, safe and all those dilemmas that they have that they don't stand. The field is over 50% vaccinated, so congratulations on that, but let's move on. As for the inoculation of young people, it's up to 30 years old, we're at 18.4% at Serbia level, but we have 21 local self-governments below 10%. The front is at 14.11%, so it's below the republican average. Let's work here together with young people in Prepolje to vaccinate to make that success that you've generally made in the vaccination of a full-time population. All congratulations on the town municipality in Belgrade, Stari Grad, which is the real municipality that reached 50% of the vaccinated population up to 30 years of age. We will continue to work on it and it is one of my basic tasks, to travel through Serbia, to talk to people. I talked about how to do extra, and with some festivals, step up the youth vaccination campaign. It's up to us all, so we have to keep talking, appealing and praying to people and explain to them why this is important and how safe the vaccine is. Thank you and apologize for the long answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8764	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8765	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, as far as these two issues are concerned, the inspection will certainly exercise control over these claims concerning the dismissal of three professors. Otherwise, they started working-law disputes, but it doesn't upset us with the need to carry out inspection. Otherwise, whether it was motive or not, I really don't know, but you know for a fact that in this House you just adopted that opinion, that a teacher in calling a regular professor who has met the conditions for retirement can only perform his duty until the end of the term of office, regardless of what the high law you've voted here pointed out this restriction, so that from October 1st at the state university, a new rector will enter into office. As for the Student House and the irregularities pointed to the ministry, a inspection will also be sent if the question you have referred to and which you are alluding to the alleged abuse of space of the Student House, so that, in any case, that is what will be determined by inspection supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8766	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8767	Thank the Prime Minister and the First Vice President for their answers. I really have confidence, Minister Ruzic, in your work and, of course, we will follow through the talks, because a lot of public attention is being turned to the state university and I think that the work of the entire university must be much more transparent, that he is not and I expect that, after the inspection report, we will discuss here about their work. The prerequisite for all investments is political stability. We now have political stability in our country and should give recognition to both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, but certainly also to our MPs. What I'm saying is that despite all the challenges, despite wars, Bosniak and Serb people share living space in both the Republic of Serbia and BiH and Montenegro. We are obliged to do everything in our power to relax between these two nations and to raise them to the highest possible level. One of the loudest representatives of the reconciliation policy, the policymaker is the leader of our party, academician Muamer Zukorlic. We, as the strongest Bosniak party here in parliament and through our actions, promote a policy of reconciliation and believe that this policy really does not have an alternative. I want to take this opportunity to invite representatives of the government, representatives of parliament and all citizens to visit the Srlig municipality from 6 August to 8 August where the traditional event of Belmužijad will be held. Our country is a very beautiful country and there are so many beautiful municipalities in Serbia, and one of the most beautiful municipalities is Svrlig. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8768	Thank you. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8769	An important sin towards the town of Novi Pazar was committed in 2011, when that famous minister, everyone remembers him well in Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic, according to only him known criteria, determined that the town of Novi Pazar has an unintended budget transfer by the least in this country. Unfortunately, this has continued to this day. The truth is, since we've been with the SNS in power, they've had special hearings for this illogicality, for this injustice, and often budget reserves transfer certain funds to the town of Novi Pazar, but that's not enough and that's not what would meet the same criteria for all cities. I'll tell you that the city of Novi Pazar has a total annual transfer of about 559 million dinars, and the town of Kraljevo with the same population and the same third category of development has 200 million more transfers. Gentlemen, 200 million is huge money. Next, the city of Sombor 85,000 inhabitants belong to developed municipalities, second-degree. It's got about the same transfer as the city of Novi Pazar. Here, not to mention the Tutin municipality, which has 36,000 inhabitants and belongs to a group of undeveloped areas and has 467 million dinars. So, relative to the number of inhabitants, Novi Pazar has the smallest non-intentionary budget transfer from the Republic of Serbia. This should also be added to the fact that on the last 2011 census, since one irresponsible party led a boycott of the census, which is outrageous and uncivilising, we have an unreal and reduced population. I say, 100,410 residents, and according to the Novi Pazar PU, we have reported over 17,000 inhabitants. That's why I would call, given that the finance minister is not there, but you are the head of this house and you are coordinating the work and participating in the budgeting, that one real solution should come to the right criteria and that we will really determine the unintended transfer of money that all citizens of New Market deserve, and that we in Novi Pazar have schools in three shifts to school or kindergartens that go on in two shifts. So it's over necessary. The new Pazar is a city that has a constant population increase, the highest birth rate, etc. Gentlemen, in this country, we must all be equal to both state and government obligations, but also according to the donations the state gives us. Therefore, I know that you share this attitude and, Prime Minister, I call on you to punish this injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8770	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8771	I just want to tell you that I will take a look at this with Minister Sinish Mali, but also with Minister Maria Obradovic, that we will sit together. I know about that problem. I know about the problem with some other local self-government. This whole system is quite radically designed and set with four levels of local self-government, and especially for a long time has not been revised, which is what we need to do, it's true, but especially because the incentive system of local self-government in one, the second, third or fourth category is only completely wrong, because, in fact, the system we haven't been able to change, from all the other things we've done, but it's really time for us to look at it, as a matter of fact, give motivation to local self-governments to compete in who's worse than who's better. In fact, everyone wants to be in the worst category, not prove they're in the best category, which leads to everyone getting worse. The whole system has to change, that it absolutely needs to be helped more by those who are the poorest, where they are the hardest to live. But, on the other hand, there must be a way to motivate everyone to go to the third, or second, or first category of development. So I promise you we'll sit down and look at that system and it's really high time we changed it and audited local self-government under those four categories, at the level of development. Finally, we, as you know, are trying to make sure that when our economy is going well, when we have planned a good growth of GDP, which is the case this year, much better than we expected. We predicted a 6% growth, down from only 0.9% last year. I think there's going to be an estimate for the second quarter on Monday, which I believe will be over 12%, and the forecast was 10.2% - 10.5%, so again the second quarter is better than the forecast. We're spending our money responsibly, and we're late, unfortunately, in some projects, which we have to fix. We will have a better situation in the budget than we expected at the end of the year, so we will re-separate certain funds from the current budget reserve for local self-government at the end of the year. So we're going to try to mitigate all the negative effects that you've been talking about, but we're trying to finance everything that we can, of course, finance from the Republic budget and finance, and that's a little bit of a relief from that difference, which is really unfair and it's created, I'm not sure on which criteria, but we have to deal with it more. Thank you for distracting us.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8772	Thank you. Do you want to, MP, go on? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8773	Dear colleagues, a man should be very fortunate to encounter a traffic policeman or a policeman in the New Market. I'm talking about a police officer. It's not the result of their unhappiness, those people are dying of work, but it's marked evidence of a lack of police officers in the town of Novi Pazar. That's what I'm telling you, who's from New Market. Since there's a lot of talk here about the New Market, and it's mostly about those who have nothing to do with the New Market. And let me tell you something else, Honorable Minister Vulina, according to the criteria of this state and adopted by this state, a thousand inhabitants need to have three officers. According to that figure, there are 70 to 90 cops missing in Novi Pazar. If the town of Novi Pazar, we said there are 130 thousand people, the city grows, the number increases, the city has the highest birth rate, then there are about seven thousand students, then the summer has about 20 to 30,000 of our diaspora, and you see how many in one city of people. Furthermore, the city will soon have two consular representations. The town of Novi Pazar, i.e. the town of Novi Pazar, is also Sjenica and Tutin, is a border region, you said well and has three border crossings. Also, he's got five superlitters. Well, here's to giving all their officers their assignments, to have two significant games, I guarantee you, no police officer in a rope or in a wider city center will be found. There's only one problem - the lack of cops. There's only one problem in the town of Novi Pazar, and the police department is working absolutely responsibly as hard as they can. I therefore invite you to hire as many police officers as possible, officers, of course, by respecting the Constitution and the laws of this country, to review the national structure in the city itself, to employ Bosniaks in Serbia as much as they live in Novi Pazar. It's the only cure. It's the only cure for the problem we have in New Market. I still have to say, Minister Vulin, that your work will be as successful as we honest citizens in this country feel safe and secure, and there is no security without well-trained professional police, but God damn it, not many police.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8774	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8775	You know, the systematization at the MUP was brought years earlier, and then it was determined where, how, which police administration has a number of members. If we were to consistently stick to this percentage of three officers per thousand, I'm afraid that if we multiplied and shared with these millions that we live in, that the police would be more numerous than health care, than education and many other institutions, so that we could hardly do it in every municipality. Any police department you'd be looking at right now, I'd tell you if there were a small number of people, I need more people. It's quite understandable and it's quite all right. It's not about the mere count, it's about the training and the technique and everything that's needed. That's what we do. You mentioned officers. We've now launched a major deployment action, today it's called a cop in the community, and it's a constable. That's the cop who's got his own area, there's the maltenes up to retirement. He knows everybody, works here. I expect by the end of this year we'll be training and hiring over 400 such officers. In order to get through police training, it's gonna take nine months to get past all those security checks. So it takes at least a year to do that effectively and to pass. I don't share people by faith and nation and I don't believe in the key. I think the SFRY destroyed the key, that the fact that someone is a Bosniak or the fact that a Serb tells me nothing about him. It tells me his expertise, tells me his knowledge, his patriotism, his relationship to the country, his relationship to business. These are things that I count on to be something that matters. Which is faith and what nations doesn't mean anything to me. When the gendarmes in New Pazar were 58 days, working to make those terrible scenes of that shooting at cafes and killing each other, that as much as I can calm down the situation, I think we've done a part of it, I'm not happy with it, but one part of it has worked, and there's not one single complaint about the work of the gendarme, and right now I'm not going to be able to tell you that the vast majority of the gendarmes weren't even from the New Market, I don't know, the right to tell you, which are faiths and nations, I can't say, I'd have to check that out, but I can't tell you right now. I know there wasn't a single complaint, even though these people weren't from New Pazar, not from the territory of Raška, not a single one, which says that religion and nations alone will bring nothing. Of course, you should always take care of it, which is natural, which is logical. If you have a majority population of this or that nation, it's logical to know the customs, because of the knowledge of space, but one of the problems we have in New Market is that it's very difficult to be a successful officer in New Market when it's so related, which is natural and branched, it's pretty hard to stop someone who's your brother from this or who you've been close to all your life, a small environment, it's worked out. Very often then, even from the New Market Police Department, they are seeking outside intervention, not to be burdened with family relationships with each other. You know, I have confidence in every cop I've got, but I've got a little, a little bit, a little bit of time until some application arrives that says this is my uncle's brother, and I look at my uncle's brother on the APB, brother of this on the APB, brother of the one on the APB. So, I'm not going to judge cops based on that, I'm only judging by their work. National representation should be taken into account, but to me, while I'm the interior minister, it won't be a prevailing factor, because then that would mean that in all municipalities where they are, for example. The Hungarians in the majority should be Hungarian chief of police administration, that in Bačka Petrovac there must be Slovak, that in Presevo there must be Shiptar. Why? I'm sorry, why? I want a good cop, and I don't have a problem at all, as you know, in the department I have more Bosniaks. And what if I didn't have them? I hope they were, all of them, because they're good cops, and that's all I care about. So everything else goes into another plan and everything else isn't an argument. When it happened that a Serb in Novi Pazar, a police officer, did an ugly and unforgivable thing when it came to his behaviour in front of the mosque, the policeman was immediately suspended, against him being conducted disciplinary proceedings. He's a Serb, but he's a New Market Serb. He had to know he couldn't do it, he had to know it never happened. I'm not sure the fact that the Serb made him do it. It's not. He was born here. Who knows what was in his head and that's why he was punished, and it will never be part of the Ministry of the Interior and will never be part of our policy, but I don't believe that faith and the nation is determined and that the key that destroyed the countries in which we lived, many of us are a generation, that it should be a basic criterion. The basic criterion is education, the basic criterion is honesty, the basic criterion is ability. Everything else comes after that. I work in such a government, and I run such a ministry, and wherever I've been, I've run it myself, and I'll always stick to that criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8776	The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8777	Thank you. I'm going to add just one more thing that you mentioned in your address, but just to point it out. We are soon approaching the census, or census. The census happens once every ten years. Now we've moved because of the pandemic caused by the coronary virus for October 31st, 2022. The previous list was by some politicians, some political leaders, some political parties, the group boycotted. It's one of the most irresponsible things anyone can do and advise citizens who believe in these options. Therefore, the census and the number of residents in one territory in one local self-government is the only relevant data for institutions in a whole range of areas and for a whole series of decisions, such as, say, the number of police officers and the number of police officers employed in that local self-government, such as the number of employees in that local self-government, the number of employees, the maximum number of employees is determined by the same number of residents in those local self-governments, which is derived from censorship, budgets, budgets and transfers, the budget for national councils of national minorities and some other things. You boycott or advise your citizens or people who believe you are boycotting something that will then have terrible repercussions for the quality of life of these same people over the next 10 years, and that boycott will not bring you anything but absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing. In six months or a year, people will forget you boycotted the list. So, I just want to appeal once again now that we don't have such irresponsible and irresponsible decisions from politicians anymore because, once again, I repeat, the boycott of the census is politically not making anything, but as a consequence, you have denied these same people in these local self-government much over the next 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8778	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8779	Thank you for these findings and that's true and that's what the SDP represented. Unfortunately, your coalition partner's party and ours, Mr. Zukorlic, was in a boycott and she has done enormous damage to the citizens of Novi Pazar and Sandzak. Now, 30,000 fewer residents are shown so many fewer cops and so many fewer employees and so many in public institutions and so many fewer doctors and so many less all. Let me tell you something else, the only vaccination-positive campaign in Sandzak is run by only one party – SDP Rasim Ljajic. One party's anti-vaxer, and the other one's acting silly. Those results you mentioned were the result of our positive campaign, our only one. Everyone else is to a lesser or greater extent against vaccination. Anyway, thank you, Prime Minister. I also want to thank Mrs. Minister for Environmental Protection Vujovic. You know, this condition, this epidemic and humanity is not only affected by it, but also by its vinic and I'm glad that it's in the focus of this government, the central theme of this government's environmental protection. I have an obligation in front of the mayor and his cabinet in Novi Pazar to thank Mrs. Vujović, because you have indeed done much to solve the basic problems that we have with the environment in Novi Pazar, huge amounts of money, you have solved the problem in Prepolje – Stanjevine, in Novi Pazar you have initiated asphalting to our Glog hill, 20 million you have defined for the project of the regional dump of Novi Pazar, Tutin and Raška, 20 million for the arrangement of two green areas, 6.2 million you have given for private deposits, etc. It's patriotism. It's a fight for better Serbia, and everything else is empty stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8780	Thank you. The word is Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8781	Dear Prime Ministers, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that the opposition have managed to impose a topic on us and that we are dealing with a topic that brings nothing good to the citizens of Serbia, but before I speak of them, I just want to ask Minister Alexander Vulin if he knows or doesn't know that perhaps any 15th car can pass a technical examination. So, the collapse because some standards are applied that are not suitable in Serbia, we have vehicles that are two, three years old and they're looking for something, and these vehicles can't have an upgrade, because citizens in Serbia are driving vehicles where the average age is, I think, between 10 and 15 years old, so let's see how to solve this problem, and especially the car carriers. Those who have trucks, they don't have a chance to register any vehicles. Just so you know. So it's a collapse. A six-month technical check-up for carriers, for both passengers and freight, can't be passed. That's a question for you. The question for Dmitrovic -- why didn't you react or perhaps react, and the authorities and the prosecution or the judiciary did nothing to take on the criminal charges of Ivo Gilas that he beat up her ex-husband Dragan Gilas and father-in-law, here, yesterday, the day before, we see the nanny and we have to fight, there is also the minister of justice, to introduce some law, something that never goes out of date. This is not lustration, this is a crime committed and signed by a person who has suffered a physical attack by his ex-husband and all the institutions in Serbia should deal with it, not only when it comes to this liar, fraud, and precisely these liars, con men, thugs abuse something called witness lies. Witnesses can lie, Ministers and Minister of Justice. They can lie, they can lie and lawyers can lie, but that lie cannot be transmitted through political press conferences, and that later turns out, not later, but now, no one in Serbia believes the story. But they abuse the subject, so they send it to those countries that don't like Serbia, I can say it freely, and we have to get in the way, because we're going all the time. Here, today, dear Prime Minister, for two hours and 15 minutes you've all been talking about something that's a lie, something that no one in Serbia can accept that it's true what those criminals and murderers were talking about in prison. Now, the easiest way for them to take two cameras is to put a stand on asphalt and hold a conference and release them to the media, and then take over some foreign media and their stories and Serbia is criminalised in a way that no truth exists in that story.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8782	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. It's been three minutes. The word is made by Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8783	I would answer that every defendant has the right to defend himself in the way he thinks he's doing the most in favor of liberating him from prosecution. However, in this situation regarding "Krik" who published Belivuk's statement and later Miljkovic's statement, it is amazing that, as Minister Vulin said earlier, it is considered as something of a determined truth. It's just their initial statement. The question arises in which way, I have asked this question already in earlier statements, how did their testimony come to the public, given that there was a pre-criminal procedure, i.e. in the course of a public investigation? It is evident that in some proceedings someone committed a criminal offence without the authority of the handling prosecutor, he brought the defendant’s defense to the public. Who is it - it will surely be determined in the next period. I have to correct you. In the previous part of your exposure, you said they could lie. Legal terminology is not that they can lie, but that they bring out their defense in the way they think the most answers, which means they can lie, but witnesses can't lie. Witnesses must not lie, for they swear to tell the truth before the court. If witnesses lie when giving their testimony, they also commit a criminal act of false testimony. You also tied up the subject of Gilas who committed domestic violence, etc. We're still waiting for the D.A.'s reaction. Unfortunately, these acts become obsolete within a certain time limit. In any changes to the legal text, we can predict that certain acts of violence do not go out of date. For now, it's reserved for war crimes and harder acts not to count them. It's an interesting suggestion, given that violence is in general, as it is in expansion, especially violence against women. So you can put a proposal in this regard to the Ministry of Justice to point out that in the next period, we will change both the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8784	Thank you. Minister Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8785	Thank you. You see, the law you voted for, Mr. MP, the Transport Safety Act, which regulated these technical checks and on the basis of which the Regulation on the technical inspection of the vehicle carried out by the Ministry of Transport was adopted on 5 June 2018. From then on, space of three years has been left to adapt to technical checks to adapt to this law. Three years. After three years of some 853 companies that had the authority to carry out technical checks now operate under the law about 500 companies and 121 companies stopped working, but another 546 applications were submitted for the opening of new technical checks. I understand that sometimes there's a crowd, sometimes it's a little slower, sometimes they're playing. Every remark you have, as we've had for the example where one vehicle didn't pass a technical examination because there was no sprinkler on the light, we filed a complaint against that technical examination that was so conductive. Please, whenever you have something like that, contact the traffic police. It's in our jurisdiction and we'll do and check, but for three years, the application of this Regulation is delayed. It had to start once. As you voted in this House, you remember, for travel, for a new law on having to report your residence, that if you change the address you have to change it in all other documents that are valid. He's got to start sometime. Now it's started, 2018 passed the law. A good part of you voted for that law, today that law is being applied. We will, of course, be maximum tolerance within the framework of the law and within the framework of the Regulation adopted by the Ministry of Traffic and, of course, we will do everything possible to make every vehicle right. You know how, away from that, when something happens, someone comes in and says, how you could have an invalid vehicle in traffic and how the vehicle passed the technical examination and then you have seizures from all sides where something with the faulty brakes could have been in traffic, so what happened, so who's guilty, and then we start to unwind, and then we get to the technical inspection, so the cop who let it, etc. Of course no vehicle will fall out of traffic for minor damages, for scratches, for lack of sprinklers or such nonsense, but what matters is that and will be taken care of. All citizens' objections, please contact the traffic police. We're here to help, to check, as we've filed a complaint against this technical examination that turned the vehicle off for that, which really doesn't make any sense. For all of us, talk to us. We're here to help, but we must respect the law that we ourselves passed and the regulation that came out of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8786	Thank you. Any other members of the government? No, I don't. ) The word is Dragan D. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8787	We have been given the theme of "Geoks" which will be closed and respected that it is the government's fault. Of course it's not the government's fault because production technology is very important, the models produced by this factory, the market, etc. The state could blame itself for today's euro course of 150 dinars, for several countries imposing sanctions on us, etc. Therefore, the state of Serbia has never been more economically stable, safer, more healthy, more internationally popular, and it must not be allowed for anyone who deals in the street with politics, not where he should deal with politics, and that if he says something is wrong, and what have you done? So, the difference between this country and the former ones who were in power like Dragana Gilas this country brings investors and brings her, and Dragan Gilas brought Tanja Fajon and those other European parliamentarians to show those who are at risk of human rights in Serbia, both this and that. The more it takes Tanya Fajon to come, here, I accept to host her for 10 days and tell her what Serbia is. I'm sure that woman and those parliamentarians saw that bully and those mercenaries around him work and love Serbia. If I'm criticizing anything, I have to suggest what's better. If this factory is bad, if the state was doing bad, what is it that you're going to do and bring 70,000 workers from Serbia to work in German factories? It was a mental noun once. I say this not as a politician, as a businessman for 40 years and I am neither a cabinet politician nor a flat-rate politician but today I know how hard it is to make money and how hard it is to motivate someone from the strongest economic state in the EU called Germany. Now, here we are, the president went to Macedonia, so he spent more time explaining who these hohstapplers are, because he's being attacked by journalists and all in a row, etc. than what will be from tomorrow, or in two or three months and six months better for the citizens of Serbia, so that we can export, not wait for order at the borders, etc. And not only from Skopje, wherever he goes and they can't wait for the Wolf to get on the plane to attack him so I don't know this or that and he's devalued that visit in a way like... So, when Dacic traveled and visited the world, and how, that is, they withdrew recognitions of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, a large number of states, of course, with the help of President Vukic. Then they invented that, I don't know, they take money from businessmen and give it to these statesmen and because of that, I don't know, these countries have withdrawn recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence. We must pass the law, the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister. These lies will be more and more from day to day, and if we're dealing, that's what I'm saying: "you're caught" in a story they've imposed and we're all caught today. And not just today, but every day. We're right, they're lying. The media know they're lying, but that's what they say: freedom of speech. Look out, God, do you have a responsibility for freedom of speech?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8788	Mr. Markovic, I have to interrupt you, because it's four minutes, and it's supposed to be three, but I'm, like, democratically defined. So will you have a third address or not? There's no one here? In fact, the prime minister answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8790	Thank you. Since I responded quite extensively about the "Geoks" during this session, I will not repeat it, but I will say just one more thing, so during 2020, the largest number of countries in the world and I, if I am not mistaken, I think, have seen a huge rise in unemployment in all EU member states. As a result of the pandemic, people were running out of work, companies were closing down eventually because governments did not respond in time or did not react with the right support mechanisms to preserve jobs. Serbia was rather unique in this as well. During 2020, despite the pandemic of the corona virus, registered employment in Serbia has increased. So, thanks to everything we've done, and yet another special thank you to President Alexander Vukic because he ran a crisis headquarters in charge of the economy, and he's led somehow our direction of responding, by what measures, at what point, with how much money for direct financial support for the economy and citizens. We have done so, unlike some other countries, to increase net employment, so that unemployment is further reduced. That's what happened in Serbia, right to tell you, quite undetected. While you have unemployment in EU member states that has gone to over 20%, Serbia has maintained its employment, or has not increased the unemployment rate. It is now happening that a company is leaving Serbia, that this company has had huge losses, suffered during the crown of the virus, but also that its decision is in fact crucial, has been affected by the continued growth in wages and average salaries and minimum wage and is not worth doing business in Serbia anymore, but will find countries where the workforce is cheaper. We've been talking for days about it, days of us criticizing the departure of a company. People who allowed more than 400,000 people, between 400 and 600,000 people, to lose their jobs during a much smaller crisis, the global economic crisis in 2009, are now pretending to be very interested in 1,000 people. I say once again, people in Vranj, who were employed at the Geoks, will not remain at large. As far as I can see, President Aleksandar Vukic has already announced a visit to Vranja in September and we will take care of each individual employee in this "Geoks", about every family, in order to pass through that transition that we once knew was coming again. Because we didn't want to build Serbia as a country of cheap labour. We knew that such investments would slowly depart from Serbia. We're getting ready for such a scenario and we're getting ready for such a scenario, but it's going to mean completely at some point completely to break up with such a past where we've brought investors, giving them subsidies to keep our people at a minimum. That's no longer the case in Serbia. So, once again, I am proud and finally, which is also at the time of the pandemic that a company is leaving and closing, and not as it is in most countries of Europe, which is not employment growing and going to two digits, but to be over 20%. The case also speaks about how Serbia is today and how different it is from that in 2011 and 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8791	Thank you. The word is Dragan Markovic Palm.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8792	The factories are being closed everywhere in the world, and why are large companies from the once most developed European countries dislocated and chose Serbia? Because Serbia has the best conditions. Because Serbia has good and professional workers. What's the point? The point is that Serbs who are called gasters work all over the world, bring them back to Serbia and work there, if they worked in German factories here and here, if they worked in a Swiss factory and here to work in a Swiss factory. So it's not something you could say -- well, look, this one of I don't know how many thousands of small and large companies are working or not working. One factory can't reduce anything, not even GDP, when it comes to budgeting, but the state has accepted to employ half of the workers, or half of 1,500, and I'm sure the state will bring in another, new investor and hire the others who worked in that factory. What is important to you ministers, to know that there is no Sunday to pass without anyone being interested in the most developed countries of Europe and the world to open their factory in Serbia. You have your own resources, so you don't do this job, and I have to deal with certain resolution ministers, I have to deal with bringing investors because today is the most important thing. What you missed to say -- no more pension subsidies like it used to be, no more. What does that mean? This means stability of the state budget, security, everything called and gold in the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, etc. It's indicators and facts. Those who are used to stealing, lying and milking, as they say to me, can say whatever they want. But insults like Vulin and President Vukic, I don't want to say what they did to me, because they didn't sue me, because there's no act, and you don't have a law called the defamation law, but you can talk whatever you want, whatever comes to mind, etc. These people have to answer as well. They have to answer. Let's make a point. The best state, Prime Minister, I speak to you and to you ministers, the best country for investors is Serbia. That's not what I said. Serbia is a house on its way. What's the increase in the number of vehicles in transit? That's what you're talking about. Let the thief Gilas go. How many more passenger vehicles and cargo vehicles pass through Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8793	The word is Akosh Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8794	Thank you very much. The Honorable President, the Presidency, the members of the government, the MPs. I would like to ask in the right circle the parliamentary question of the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the SVM parliamentary group supported the budget rebalance for 2020, as well as the budget for 2021, because they were put together to create a good basis for curbing the pandemic caused by the Coronus virus and the help of the economy, and certainly our main goal was to preserve every job and not leave any workers without a job. Now we can already say that to the greatest extent it has been achieved. We all know that the impact of the Kovid 19 pandemic on the global economy is enormous, and the consequences are severe. This is why it is very important for fiscal policy to continue to focus on the private sector and continue to reduce the overall tax burden on labour, which further relieves the economy, i.e. increasing the competitiveness of the private sector, retain existing jobs. It is also important to say that infrastructure and capital projects, as well as pension and salary policies were on the dissipated side, and the government of the Republic of Serbia took care not to come out of the planned sustainable framework by increasing these two largest categories of expenditure. Thanks to the macroeconomic and fiscal stability achieved in the previous year, the Republic of Serbia had enough space to help the economy, mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic. A comprehensive package of measures was envisaged to help businesses whose positive effects were reflected in macroeconomic indicators. The total value of the package of measures, aid to the economy and the population was around 12.5% of GDP. Responsible economic policy management and the constant good situation in the budget have again created enough space for the government of the Republic of Serbia to help the economy mitigate the negative effects of the Koron virus pandemic, and therefore a new third economic package of support measures for businesses and citizens, worth 294.4 billion dinars, including providing an additional 500m euros for businessmen through the first guarantee scheme and 500m euros through other guarantee schemes to provide additional liquidity to the economy. We must reiterate that everything has been done to preserve existing jobs. My question is: What measures are planned by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or what programmes it envisions to speed up economic recovery, and not only to preserve, but also to create new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8795	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8796	At this point what is planned are additional tax reliefs, first of all for youth employment, because we still have a pretty high rate of youth unemployment, it is something around 21.22%, which is once again when you look at where we started in 2012 when there was over 51% youth unemployment, excellent. But far enough that we're satisfied with where we are today. So, since 1 January 2022, he has planned additional tax reliefs for youth employment, especially for young people who are due to get first job. The program "My First Salary", Daria talked about it, had a presentation of the results so far going really well. So, we're looking at the finance minister whether we can allocate additional funds to continue the program and extend the scope of the "My First Salary" programme. I think about 80% of the participants remain probably at the jobs they received under that program. Also, we will give additional tax incentives, i.e. to reduce taxes on investment in innovation, research and development and the creation of intellectual property in Serbia, again to put the focus on investments that generate additional value, which pay people more than two or three times the average salary, and then practically and full budget, and then we from that budget provide support for all those people who are low-skilled to improve their skills and bring their entire economy up. We will continue with huge investments in infrastructure, road and rail infrastructure. There will be, I think, an additional budget, an even bigger budget for investment in environmental protection because at the end of the day, investments and infrastructure, plumbing, sewerage networks, wastewater treatment plants, regional sanitary dumps, cell transfer, etc. We hope that we will no longer have the need to invest so much money in direct financial support to bring in because of the pandemic because we hope, I don't know and I don't guarantee it, and we don't know that the worst thing we've seen from the crown virus behind us. There are different opinions in the world that are only the worst in front of us and that there will be other variations and that there will be different strains, that the economy will still suffer. I hope that's not the case, but we still have to be prepared, which is why we're trying again to reduce the deficit that was planned for us to have at the end of the reserve and for additional support measures if necessary, but that's ultimately up to all of us. That's why the vaccine is so important to us. One more request that those who have not been vaccinated go into vaccination, especially young people, people up to 30 years of age. There's a huge space for progress here. If that's the way it is, then we look after each other and protect our economy, thus safeguarding our salaries and pensions and our growth and progress. So, depending on that, we'll see what additional incentives we're planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8797	Thank you. The word has an MP, Akosh Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8798	Thank you very much. My second question would like to ask the Minister for European Integration, which refers to IPA III. The priorities of both programmes are to assist the countries of users in meeting political, economic and other criteria relating to the adoption of legal flows of the European Union, building administrative capacity and strengthening justice, as well as to helping countries prepare for the use of structural and cohesion funds after accession to the European Union. The assistance should, among other things, support countries in their efforts to strengthen democratic institutions and rule of law, reform of state administration, reform of economy, respect for human and minority rights, improve regional co-operation, achieve sustainable development and reduce poverty. The allocation criteria shall take into account the capacity of each country to use funds and manage funds, as well as respect for the conditions for accession. IPA helps these countries meet the standards and values on which the Union is built. That way IPA is a real investment in the future. Thanks to IPA programmes over the past years, we have successfully achieved extremely important projects in Vojvodina, such as: Creating technical documentation for the Subotica-Baja railway, revitalisation of Begej channel navigation infrastructure, construction of the Hungarian House of Culture on Palić, construction of several kilometers of cycling trails in Subotica, construction of the Rabe-Kubekhaz border crossing. If we translate the above investment into dinars, then we can say that the European Union adds about seven more dinars to each of our dinars. No other country has ever done this before, except the European Union. We must underline and say that the European Integration Ministry, led by Minister Joksimovic, has done a huge job in the past period and thanks to this work, has managed to complete capital projects and investments financed by the European Union without losing any dinar. Under the European Commission's proposal, the European Union should provide 14.5 billion euros in grants to IPA III to Southeast Europe and Turkey to fund projects that contribute to the implementation of political, economic and institutional reforms and progress in the European integration process by 2027. My question is – at what stage is the implementation of IPA III?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8799	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8800	Thank you, MP. Thank you, and for your commendation, it's good for someone to follow the IPA. We talk a lot about this, and it is really important to mention this issue, because the pre-accession funds at Serbia's disposal, as a country that has joined, have really contributed, not only in Vojvodina, what you mentioned, but indeed across Serbia, above all to regional development, and, of course, in line with our national priorities and above all our National Investment Plan "Serbia 2025", where we really combine wherever we can grant the European Union with budget funds. We recently, here, two weeks ago, organized a big conference that was opened by President Vukic, and Commissioner Varhelji, where we really were, I organized this conference, passed what was done in the IPA II perspective, for our citizens to be clearer, this is the period of 2014-2020, therefore, the seven-year period, which we have all projects from these funds, of course, combined with budgets and all of what we have programmed and implemented in a good way, what we have done. So, fostered regional development, encouraged a number of infrastructure projects, from environmental protection also, transport, road infrastructure, social infrastructure, digital infrastructure, even health infrastructures and, of course, those programmes aimed at democracy, the rule of law, institutional reforms in various areas, etc. At this conference we are indeed, I would not repeat what we have identified as the most important projects, but it is very important that what I also think President Vukic said then, and it seems to me that Commissioner Varhelji has confirmed, that we have been responsible really well so far, ready and effective to use these funds and in the programming process, therefore, priority on what is important, and that it fits what is the obligation of the candidate country itself, which is to be in line with reforms in the field of European integration, with the overall progress of the state and to cover those areas that the European Union also wants to support in the country itself that negotiates membership. It was also said then, and I will repeat that we really have shown that we appreciate every euro that has entered Serbia, therefore from the taxpayers of the European Union, and that we are in a really extremely responsible way, and for the benefit and well-being of Serbian citizens anywhere in Serbia, therefore, anywhere in Serbia to live, because these programmes in particular encourage the development of less developed municipalities and, of course, local economic development. When it comes to the IPA III perspective that you mentioned, it is actually a new seven-year perspective of 2021-2027, which you said was defined by the European Union – 14.1 billion euros for candidate countries and potential candidates in total, so in this seven-year period, and for which we already last year, I mention, have done all of the inter-resorial consultations in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, prepared some principled framework and strategic response that each country must write as a strategic document of its plans, in order to successfully program these funds as well. What is important is that, in this perspective, the largest share of the funds from that IPA III will go to the green agenda and to sustainable integration. Even 42.4% of total funds will go to environmental projects. I think this is very important to hear local self-government and all interested, therefore, both the business community and the academic community, and to think in that direction in time, because it really will open up significant funds. At the same time, it kind of complements what "Serbia 2025", our investment plan, and in general what our priorities are, so I think it's really important that they take an interest in and follow local self-government in time. Also, a significant part of the money will go to competitiveness, fostering competitiveness and inclusive growth, which is about 22% of the total funds, cross-border co-operation, among other things, with Hungary we have one of the best cross-border co-operations back ten years, there will also be funds, and of course the rule of law, good governance, harmonisation with the legal assets of the European Union etc. All in all, I want to tell you that Serbia is certainly a leading country in the region and as a country that negotiates, which has established mechanisms for programming and implementing inter-resor consultation we have regularly, all of my fellow ministers, of course, in agreement with and with local self-government, with the academic community, the non-governmental sector, we follow this and we follow what the priorities of the European Union are, among other things, our priorities. A new source of growth should be exactly this investment in environmental protection, which comes not only from funding and budgets and budgets and European funds, but also through investment. It is precisely the direct side of investment that is the best way to make this very demanding financial model of project protection and environmental protection, because all those companies that come from countries that have high standards in the field of environmental protection, they are their technology, their knowledge-how already bring and thus, of course, make it easier and cheaper for us, and on the other hand we raise the share of what is green economy. I think that we have also reached some consensus on this and the president and the prime minister are very active and monitored in line with the new methodology and use of IPA funds, we are all involved in this, and I really think that this will be an additional incentive for all our citizens in the next seven years, and will certainly contribute, of course, to some faster European integration path. Thank you very much for your interest. We talk very often about other aspects of European integration that are high-political, not always so pleasant in some segments, but well, the process is complex, but this is an important component of which every citizen in Serbia has, in each of the municipalities in Serbia, seen at least some benefit. Whether it was a local infrastructure or a wastewater treatment facility or local economic development programmes or IPARD programmes for agriculture, rural development, procurement and refurbishment of equipment and machinery, which is also part of our right to use IPA funds, I think it's really important that we talk about it, and thus raise awareness of everyone's interest more. It's not quantum physics, you know, it's not easy to write a project, but there are procedures to learn it, we're already working with local self-government across Serbia, with interested users to learn the rules of writing mature projects, because the maturity of the project is crucial to getting funds from European funds, but I say it's not something that we can't learn sometimes, sometimes we're doing it well in Serbia, and the goal is to raise it to an even higher level all in the interest of sustainable growth and development of our country, which is the priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8801	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Amos Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8802	Thank you very much. First, I'd like to thank you for your answers. I believe that you have convinced all of us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing everything possible to create new jobs, start up businesses, increase standards and regulate all social areas from economy to culture. You convinced us not only that you have a clear long-term plan for the measure of financial and economic policy, but you are also taking concrete measures. The SVM parliamentary group believes it is very important that we cultivate good relations with neighbouring countries, because in this way we can achieve extremely good results, and what I am saying confirms that Serbia and Hungary's relations are the best in history. We particularly welcome Minister Joksimovic's extremely good co-operation with Minister Sijart, because this shows that if we have a common goal with our neighbours, which is primarily Serbia's EU accession, we can always find partners who will help us regardless of our national membership. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8803	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8804	I thank the President and the Honorable President of the Assembly. Dear Prime Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for the minister of care for the village of Mr Milan Krkobibic. Dear Minister, in this National Assembly, we asked you a month ago about the program to allocate free funds for the purchase of rural houses with a garden. At that time, we supported you and the government of Serbia in realising the concept of supporting the village and rural population, believing that the whole Republic means this change, that the problem of the village is talked about and acted in a positive way and that the problem encountered by the village residents, but also the benefits of life in the country. We are witnessing a positive echo that this programme has in all parts of the country. I'm taking this opportunity to ask you about the practical experiences and problems our citizens have, the ones that are interested in buying a country house with a garden. The media said you organised a meeting in the Serbian Palace 20 days ago with all representatives of Serbia's municipalities and cities and that the meeting was extremely busy and successful. That's why I'm asking you how the representatives of local self-government operate because we think it's entirely justified that all the activities that are in the interests of Serbia's villages take place along with the parallel and the synchronised activity of your ministry and local self-government? Only the essential inclusion of local self-government will bring good results, improve living conditions in the country. Considering that PUPS has been carrying out its activities throughout Serbia for three months, titled "PUPS caravan", seeing the staff and operational training of local PUPS managers to carry out programme tasks and PUPS objectives under the slogan "Serbia, and this is Serbia" to show care for each city, municipality or village. In communication with citizens all over Serbia, citizens were particularly interested in concrete activities of the village's ministry, primarily in terms of rebuilding and reviving Serbia's village. During the tour, we have noticed that a good part of the local self-government is very interested in projects initiated by the Ministry of Agriculture, so I would ask you to explain to us and to the citizens the details of your ministry's activities so that citizens have much more information and can take advantage of the opportunity to take advantage of these benefits, both the ministries and the government of Serbia. That's the first question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8805	Thank you. Minister Milan Krkobic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8806	Mr. President of the National Assembly, the esteemed Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Brnabic, the esteemed MPs, this is a unique opportunity to answer the citizens of Serbia to the questions they send through the MPs. To me, MP Stosic, it is an extraordinary pleasure today to briefly sketch these activities of ours. The interest of Serbian citizens is high today in the assignment of empty houses. If we take, let's say that there are about 60 demands in a Sremska Mitrovica, that in the White Church, I don't go further down south, but I also have to point out one interesting piece of information here in the National Assembly of Serbia. You said I had a meeting with local self-government representatives. I did, but he was interesting by something, because local self-government representatives of Presevo municipality also took part. This means that we have managed to achieve full trust, full consent in the seriousness and necessity of such a programme. But let's be specific, now they're looking at us and listening to some people in Serbia, they're not into general phrases, they want some concrete things. You see how interested they are in closing down the factory, you see how interested they are in other particulars of life. For example, today these young people in Serbia who are under 45 are not owners of any property, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have the opportunity to choose a house in the rural part and come into it. The Republic of Serbia, this ministry is ready to single out up to 1,200,000 dinars. It's something that's concrete, something that's visible, first of all, I'd like to address young people living in the country. Today, it is known that three generations live in the villages of Serbia and that the youngest generation often does not own the property, nor is it someone who can decide some important things. This is their chance, a chance to stand alone, to come over the roof over their heads and continue to work their basic work within their household. The largest number of interested is from that third generation. At the same time, let's not underestimate this, we have a lot of young people living in big cities today, living with their parents, here we are now looking at the flats of 60, 70 square meters, thinking they're starting a family or they're starting a family, and let's say they're doing something from home that's entitled to the 21st century, and that's going to be dominant for the days ahead. So that's some target group we're talking to, too. What I can inform you, if I take some simple bills that this first step of the Serbian government, which was supported by both Prime Minister Brnabic and President of the Republic of Vukic, of 500 million dinars, is a drop of water in the sea, that is so much interest. I hope this is just going to be the first step and that we will continue this action. Our goal, MP Jovanovic, is where you went far from Belgrade so that no empty house in Serbia remains, there is our goal, that is our task, that is our patriotic mission. I'm not Minister Vulin, but I'll take some of his temperament to help. I'll take the opportunity to tell you an interesting piece of information. Recently, our parliamentary group had a visit to the French Parliament and the Senate. It'll be interesting to hear this. Just before the crown, the official data of their secretariat for rural development is the following, the process of leaving people from towns to villages has been stopped. More in France a year and a half ago, people from towns went to the village than the other way around one percent. It looks like it's a global process that's spilling over on us. Of course, here we have problems that are populational, which are economic and which, we must not forget, are security. First of all, we can't leave empty ends. The fate of a desert country has prevailed in Serbia, gentlemen. This is not pathetic, this is not a lamentation, but a real fact that threatens the Republic of Serbia. So the action is under way. There's a lot of interest. There's a prime minister. We expect that the follow-up will be as early as November 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8807	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8808	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I thank you for this exhaustive information that is very important above all for all those young people who see their future in the creation of their own agricultural land or who choose to live and work in the country as professional staffs who are necessary for the village, or who have the possibility of working from home, and with the help of the ministry and the state of Serbia. I call on all interested citizens to take advantage of the opportunity and compete on public calls from the Ministry of Environmental Care. Mr. Minister, at the last session, when it was the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs of the Government, you announced the launch of other programmes that the Ministry of Agriculture will implement. The problem of living in the village is very complex and we are aware that it is necessary for many issues to improve the elements of the daily needs of the village's inhabitants. The village is not only agriculture, it's not just a matter of seduction, the village has complete needs, as well as all the larger cities and cities in Serbia, even more because of the poor development of the previous decades and because of the debauchery and distance of the village, above all in the border and mountainous areas. This is why we support the practical activities of the Ministry of Care for the Village which contributes to preventing some of the real problems of the village's inhabitants. The problem of access to public service services significantly burdens all villages that are further away from municipal centres, access to a doctor, access to a dentist, municipal service centres, post office, banks, republican and municipal institutions is a real problem for the population in remote villages. The definition of the Ministry of Care for the Village to launch a minibus purchase programme for the transport of the village population on the route of the village – the village – the municipality seat, enables the residents of the village to make their legal, financial, health and other issues easier to realise. This programme really improves the living conditions of residents above all remote villages and mountain-mounted areas. As I said, the village and residents of the village have all needs, as well as residents of the municipal centers and towns of Serbia. This refers to the question of socio-cultural life, the actual event that takes place in real time. It can't replace real life. In the past, the traditions of gathering the inhabitants of the village and the neighboring villages were an integral part of life in Serbia. The programme of support for the rural population to personally take active participation in cultural and artistic activities, whether it is a matter of personal cultural affinities and skills, whether it is to cultivate cultural heritage and cultivate traditions, will provide opportunities for both performers and audiences to enrich their daily lives. Mr. Minister, I would ask you to give us detailed information on the programmes that are being launched today at the Serbian Government and I hope they are also adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8809	Thank you. The word has Minister Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8810	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Stosic, you announced two nice things today, two good news for the residents of Serbia's villages. The Serbian government has today defined two concrete programmes with two regulations. One refers to the organisation of a event titled "Miholi village meetings". This is something that is also an answer to the question of the People's MP Tandir, addressed to Srlig. So, the crown has done its part. People are a little estranged. So, not a little bit, I'd say more than a little bit, and you need social contacts through certain manifestations, cultural, sports, and not to mention. So we want to organize village meetings and they'll be organized in the next period. Of course, it all comes down to key support, financial support, and now this is one call for local self-government, they can compete for participation in these events of up to 500,000 dinars. So these are initial means that will help a large number of events in rural areas in the next period of time to be maintained. I'm counting on these Polish papers to be completed in October of the month and that people, women of our settlements, will finally be able to take a breather. I hope that these measures regarding the monster called the crown will be removed and that people will go into direct contact. I want them to have sports meetings, to have cultural events. One word, that what was called alienation remains behind us. It's the first program. The second program is also very important. He refers to transport vehicles, minibuses. Today, it is essential to get from a village to another village, to get to the central place. They have people cars, but those who don't, those who are sick, those who are old, those who go to school and how they depend on it. So this is our first try. The Serbian government has defined the funds. They're meant to be. Local self-government will compete, and I expect that in the next two, three months our first villages to meet the criteria get these universal minibuses. So it's going to be our attempt to, let's say, multi-functional, dedicated vehicles respond to some tasks. It will be too much for something that I see as a future car mechanic on the road, which will be equipped with all agricultural tools to repair agricultural machinery, something that they do in Canada, something that they do in other and European and world countries, and gives good results, where the distances are large and where the settlements are scattered. So it's no wonder that we also have a multifunctional vehicle that will provide dental, medical care, apothecary services to get that vehicle into that village once a week and allow these people to do the basics. So, the concept is -- we go to the host's doorstep, we go with the state administration, we go with the tax officer, we try to process this automatic data we're talking about, which we've invested a lot and we try very hard to be available. It means that this citizen, and primarily a citizen in the villages of Serbia or a peasant, as Ljubvoje Rsumovic or a peasant would say, as the majority said, or the host is a first-class citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8811	Thank you. The word is Mr. Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8812	Dear Minister, I thank you once again for this exhaustive information, especially in these two new projects that the ministry has defined and that will give young people the opportunity to see their future in life in the country, because the village also offers great benefits for life, especially now in these conditions. If we implement a programme announced by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic – the allocation of resources to address the most important issues of life in rural areas, in villages and in the part of sewers and waterways and road network and other infrastructures, then it will certainly be possible for young people to simply opt to live, create their own future, create their families independently with the help of the Ministry of Agriculture and other ministries, normally with full support from both the Government and the President of the Republic. The information you have presented is of paramount importance, particularly for citizens who are interested in these benefits offered by the Ministry of Care for the Village and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Local self-government, I have called on citizens who are interested in looking for information and competing on these public calls, but I also call on local self-government to provide the opportunity for citizens to get real information, to get the rights of guidance so that they can realise their needs through the ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention. I welcome you all so much, and I want a lot of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8813	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since on my watch, which is the only one in the hour, another 13 minutes, I don't think this assembly watch would disturb you a little bit, and since we have, as I have already said many times, one truly unusual Rules of Procedure, which goes from the least party to the MPs who don't have parties and the parliamentary club, to the biggest, always end up being the MPs' group of SPS and SNS at the end, and even sometimes they don't get the right to ask parliamentary questions at all. With that in mind, and well, don't complain that you're the biggest, it's all right, but considering that now Snezana Paunović and Mr Dragan Šormaz, I would ask one and the other, in accordance with our good relations, but also that these relations are still improving, Mr Shormaz, that Snezana Paunović and Mr Shormaz have only one round of questions, it's three minutes each and I ask the Government's representatives to respond briefly, if you agree, and I suppose you agree. Snow White Paunovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8814	Thank you, Mr. President. When we showed you confidence to be president of the assembly, it meant blanco and that we would listen to your suggestion. Although I am the only woman who asks the question today, it was mostly asked by the MPs, and most of the questions were answered by the prime minister. It is the practice in Serbia that says that men always have dilemmas, and women always have a solution. I'll try to be the shortest I can. Question, actually one suggestion first of all for you. A suggestion for you. The time behind us, Kovid 19, I was talking about it, and when we had a bill of support for children with family, somehow it seems to me, I get the impression that we may have remained a little less generous towards the births in the day of the herds, as far as anyone else is concerned. And in that sense, I would like to put together, not because it is not impossible to propose one solution in terms of the Lex specialis, which I have in my head, but I would really like it to be synchronised between the legislative and executive authorities, to suggest that when we return to or in the regular session in the fall, we may make a decision that would mean or a Lex specialis, I think it is the most practical, one-time recommendation to give births at the time of the covids, who have actually made a great sacrifice, especially because of conditions that were not human and somewhere caused by fear, health care was not possible at any time, to eventually bring in measures that would mean that when they went into retirement, they get increased for the period they spent on maternity leave, about 12 months, if I wasn't wrong, or for something shorter. It would mean that each of them, under the circumstances that they are young and brave women, indeed, who have been defined for that step at this time, when they're retired, are true, it's a time that we probably won't all welcome at these functions, but it seems to me that they should be respected and left with the opportunity to get that benefit from, say, six or 12 months. I'm 12 months ago, but I'm going to accept every suggestion that happens and that together as a government and Parliament, we just, we do, and it's another measure that helps this ultimate policy. I know we've done a lot, but the statistics don't add up. For the first time, less than 62,000 babies were born, and we had 50,000, only 53,000 died as a result of Kovid 19, and somewhere such statistics themselves scare. The team before these women and their courage, these young women deserve to be paid back in this way. Here's an initiative from me, more than a question. I hope you understand and that we will find the most pathetic solution for all of this. I also had a question for Mr. Selakovic, but I will be the only lady and collegiate and leave time for my colleague, Shormaz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8815	Thank you. Prime Minister Brnabic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8816	Here's a little bit. So, we went to changes and additions to the Financial Support Act to families with children. We tried to do as much as we can at this point, but I must stress that we are not 100% satisfied with that law at this point. So, there are some other things that have been proposed by civil society organisations, first of all, that we have talked to and discussed this law, which makes a lot of sense, and let's say one of the big things, it's an important thing to support family entrepreneurs, which we have to open up after Kovid, when once again the financial situation is stabilised, and we know exactly what budget we have, because at this point we still have to keep money and if there is a need for additional support for both citizens and businesses. So we keep working on it. It's not a closed topic. The second thing, as President Vukic announced, we will have additional financial support for maternity care and we will work quickly on it. But I fully agree with you that we need to see what else we can do. For now, I'm sure there's two more things we'll be working on. This is the one announced by President Vukic. And this second one, where we told civil society organisations to continue working together on further amendments and additions to the Financial Support Act to families with children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8817	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information Maja Gojkovic. It is known that a year ago, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic launched the initiative and on the basis of this initiative, a memorial complex was built in the village of Prajani and the airfield, dedicated to the "Hallyard" mission. What's the Halliard mission? After the fall of Italy, the Allies made a new plan to break Nazi Germany and among other things, the United States first donated several of their budgets to the Soviet Union, today it would measure hundreds of billions of dollars in money and gold, to rebuild its war mechanisms, to rebuild its weapons and ammunition, and the second action that took place was that the pilots, primarily American but also British, were there Poppleka, Italians, etc., bombed oil plants, weapons factories, and even units of the German army on the Eastern Front. So they were destroying the logistics of the German army. All pilots had instructions that in case German anti-aircraft artillery hit them, to try their planes to reach friendly Allied territory, to airspace above Serbia, and to jump there. They had no instructions to jump out in the vicinity of Zagreb or Varazdin, but just above Serbia, because they would be safe there. Why were they safe? They were safe because the Yugoslav army was waiting for them in the country or the Chetniks, which RTS avoids saying in some of its contributions, under the command of Draža Mihajlovic, they were saving them, bringing them to the surroundings of the village of Prajani, but also in the vicinity of Koceljeva, where they had two, so we had two airports from which we saved those pilots. It's the biggest action of saving a pilot or anyone else in World War II behind enemy lines. So Serbia was occupied at the time. What's the most fascinating thing in the whole case? It's the loyalty of the people, because the Germans didn't even know what was happening to them. How come this people kept that secret so well? Because he was loyal, because he believed in the king, the country, God and believed in the army commanded by Draža Mihajlovic. That's why this whole action worked. No one, the Germans had any idea what was happening to them in the whole case. I am sorry to have so little time, but in the end I will only ask the respected Vice President Gojkovic, since you have long recognized and affirmed the importance of the "Hallyard" mission and that you are now, among other things, in charge of the cultural resort, to which part the memory culture belongs, my question to you is whether the marking of the "Hallyard" mission will be included in the country's anniversary marking programme, historic events, Serbia's Liberation Wars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8819	Thank you. The word is from Deputy Prime Minister and Culture Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8820	Thank you, MP Shormaz, for mentioning and opening this truly important topic for the Republic of Serbia and for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and for being one of the MPs who has been insisting for many years on putting our country in this way to the state's programme of marking the anniversary of the historic events - the Liberation Wars of Serbia, and that Operation Halliard, or Operation Air Bridge, is now the right and official place among these most important dates. Recently, on June 23rd of this year, we held a session of the adoption of the state programme. The session and the committee were chaired by Resolute Minister Darija Kisic Tepavcevic. They're really in this state program, I don't know how familiar you are with it, but I assume it exists on the government site, pulled out the most important historical events through various liberation wars in Serbia. However, I noticed right away that there is still no state and state-run and Serbian Army marking together with the Hallard Foundation and the US Embassy and other states that belonged then to the anti-fascist forces of the entire world, which participated on the right side in World War II, was not included in the Hallard mission as an important date, although I say every year in the presence of the state summit, around 10 September, marking this important event because it was the biggest operation in the Second World War saving the lives of Allied pilots. A total of 500 Allied pilots were saved thanks to the joint co-operation of the Yugoslav Army in the country and ordinary people, peasants who organised to help American, British, I think, Canadian, Polish, etc. pilots who ended up in then Yugoslav, or Serbian villages because of their affected aircraft. Now it's been marked for 78 years. I would like to point out that the first president to pay tribute to the people who gave their lives, who participated in this mission, who risked the lives of both their wives and their families, because if the Germans had entered those villages, they would have all been killed, which also happened later when the pilots left this territory, came, gave a speech, had already attended that ceremony twice in 2020 and 2021. In 2021, the Prime Minister, I, many ambassadors, were you too, Mr. Shormaz, Vladimir Marinkovic and many other MPs, and the president attended the opening ceremony of the Memorial Centre, building now a real runway unlike World War II, where peasants built a transparent runway. I am convinced that according to these criteria that exist in the Halliard marking programme, the mission must be entered in this book and that the Republic of Serbia together this year and with Republika Srpska, because this third airport was next to Doboj in a small village in Republika Srpska. It is also marked this year and will come to this marking and President Milorad Dodik, who attended this ceremony last year. So we singled out the money as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, started to mark officially with the Halliard Foundation, with embassies and we meet all the criteria for this important date to be there. That's beyond doubt the historical significance. This event is studied at military academys, to teach young soldiers how to save themselves with the help of the local population from being caught by the enemy and certainly by an educational character, because all these national holidays and important dates in our history deserve to be introduced to the famous parts of our history. We should be proud that in World War II, we had two liberating movements that, each with their own ideology, fought against the Germans, which proves Operation Halliard. Otherwise, let me inform you, the film Rados Bajic, which is called "500 forgotten", is currently being filmed and will describe the events of this operation. I ask Parliament's support that we may even correct this state programme and begin to mark this important historical event together in this official way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-29-0.u8821	Thank you. Since the time is up, if Daria wants something short? No, I don't. I would like the United States to be proud of this event, and I hope that it will be on a much higher level than it has been so far. Let's move on. I thank the government's representatives, the prime minister. Thank you. We are finishing work in the session on parliamentary matters and I thank everyone for their participation, and we are moving on. I'm concluding a search that was conducted on the 3rd point of the agenda, so that we can move on to a decision. According to Article 87(5), I hereby set Thursday's Rules of Procedure, July 29th 2021, starting at 19.06 p.m. as a day for voting on the agendas of the 10th Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 185 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search on the proposals of the law at issue. On the 1st and 2nd agenda, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft laws, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure only decide on draft laws in general. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. I put the motion for a law amending the Law on Culture, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: total – 187, for – 186, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending the Law on Culture. Second item of the agenda. I put it to a vote - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Library Information Action, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Final vote: total – 187, for – 187. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed a bill amending the Law on Library Information Action. Third item of the agenda. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the National Assembly decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international agreements and contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Decision of the Joint Committee of the Free Trade Agreement in Central Europe No 1/2021 amending Annex 4 of the Agreement on Free Trade in Central Europe (CEFTA 2006), laying down the Protocol on the definition of the concept of ‘produced products’ and the method of administrative co-operation referred to in Articles 14th and 3rd and repealing and replacing the Decision of the Joint Committee on Free Trade in Central Europe No. 3/2013 and 3/2015, as a whole. Please press the corresponding key. Final vote: total – 187, for – 187. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, before the session is concluded, let me tell you that this is our last session in July, since it's been 3 August of the year since the constitution of this new National Assembly called, I have to inform you that the 38th session of the National Assembly was held during that period, that we have occupied a total of 90 working days, that 155 laws and 106 other acts have been passed, means a total of 261 decisions, or an act of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Accordingly, I would just like to remind you that in fact, the activities of the National Assembly began with the constitution, that is, the choice of leadership, which was October 24th. It's practically even shorter than a year, it's nine months. With all that in mind, I think we've done a good job for the state of Serbia, for our citizens, and I want to congratulate you on that. Mrkonjic spoke earlier – before the deadline, but we are really within the deadline... All acts awaiting adoption in the Assembly, no more of these acts. We've adopted everything that's come. Accordingly, I will schedule the next session when a sufficient number of laws are collected. It will be of course in the second half of August, but in the last week most likely. I must also say that the leadership of the National Assembly will have to work in this time. We already have a meeting Monday that will be held by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic with the opposition working group that does not want the participation of foreigners in the dialogue. We're going back to work. To mention, there is also the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Jelena, who is now in disguise, so I can't recognize her where she is. We have a clear plan of our activities to change the Constitution. We expect visits from the president of the parliaments of Sweden and Slovenia, Slovenia, which is the EU chairman in the coming period. Accordingly, I want to thank everyone for one really huge effort and the work we've put into it. Since we have considered all the points of the agenda of this session and deciding on them, I hereby conclude the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Thank you.
