ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9202	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Let me begin by congratulating all of us, the MPs and all the citizens of Serbia, the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag. Since it is a holiday that symbolizes our eternal struggle for freedom and respect, I will remind only that it was determined to be September 15th, on the day of the Thessaloniki front break, when the Serb army crossed the free path from Thessaloniki to Belgrade from September 15th to November 1st. Today I think the most important thing, exactly what it says on behalf of this holiday, is Serbian national unity. In that sense, let me once again, at the beginning of the second part of this session, congratulate the holiday. We're continuing our work. [[Applause]] Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 74 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are at this time 127 MPs present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the First Point of the Agenda – a bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letter. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, Gordana Comic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue and Radovan Jokic and Daniela Vanušić, acting as Assistant Minister of Culture and Information. I would like to welcome to this occasion the present Deputy Prime Minister and President of the Assembly in the previous term, Culture and Information Minister Maja Gojkovic. Before we move to the amendment debate, I just want to remind you that, as agreed earlier, the vote is scheduled to take place at 3:00, so you have that in mind. We're moving on to the amendments. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Dr Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck, Rosalia Ekres, Akos Ujhelji, Daniel Giovanni, Dr Emese Uri and Nandor Kish. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Dr Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck, Rosalia Ekres, Akoš Ujhelji, Daniel Giovanni, Dr Emese Uri and Nandor Kish together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives see the amendment as in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since the list has already been filled in, I have now deleted the list and asked – does any of the promoters want a word? No, I don't. The word has Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the Serbian Government and the Assembly Committees have adopted all three amendments submitted by MPs to the national minority on the democratic capacity of the Serbian government, on the democratic capacity of this home and on the democratic capacity of Serbian society. This is the best confirmation that this law is by no means directed against national minorities. As the president said, this is a solemn day not only for the assembly, not only for Serbia and the Republika Srpska, but for the Serb people in general. Not only are we marking the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the National Flag today, but Serbia will now for the first time in its history receive a law on the protection of national letters and Cyrillics. Just ten days after the enthroning of Mitrovica Joaniki on Cetinje, the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro was defended from another attack, only ten days after a large national assembly at the welcome of the patriarch of Serbia's Porfiri, the Serb people in Montenegro, showed their political strength, Serbs on both sides of Drina have another reason for national pride. With the language, the Serbian Orthodox Church, the cross of glory and geese, Cyrillic is the most important element of the identity of the Serb people, one of the pillars of its existence and survival. All praise is that the debate on this law is scheduled as the sole item of the agenda of the Serbian Parliament's special session. Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun the procedure for the adoption of this law on 13 September. 105 years ago, on September 13, 1916, it began important in Kymakcalan, one of the world's greatest battles, led by the Serbian and Bulgarian armies to 2,500 metres high, the sky under the clouds. Two days after the start of the battle, on today, September 15, 1916, the heroic Serb army won the top of the Kajmakalan, and for the first time since leaving the country, for the first time since the Albanian gogoth, set foot on the Serbian country. The battle in Kamakcalan lasted from September 13th to 30th, war luck was changing sides, so that on September 30th, the Serb army would finally possess the top of the mountain and force the Bulgarian army to retreat towards Prilep and Djevgelija. In the battle in Kamakcalan, 4,600 Serbian soldiers were killed, wounded and missing. The 400 were buried on the monumental site, which was built on top of the mountain by the order of King Aleksandr Karadjordjevic, and several thousand more remains were buried on more than 80 larger and smaller cemeteries in Kamakchalan and in villages at the foot of that mountain. What is important and what I think should be pointed out on this very day is the fact that in the Battle of Kymacchalan, the Serb army was not alone, the Serbs were not alone, together with us, even though in symbolic numbers there were Macedonians, Montenegrins, Albanians and Muslim brothers. I will only mention two well-known Serbian committees, Mustafa Golubic and Mehmed Mehmedbasic. The first chase and this is also interesting, two selected squads led to the Bulgarian trenches. The first consisted of the best Serb soldiers, Chetniks under the command of Duke Vuk Popovic, and the other squad was made by Albanians, 300 Albanians under the command of the Esad Pasha Toptani. In the battle of the Kuymakalan Duke, the Wolf was killed, the Essad Pasha Toptani was wounded. By passing the Law on the Protection of Cyrillic, passing laws is only one step that Serbia is quite fragmented during the Democratic Party's rule and other Dossian parties, returns to itself, returns to its tradition, returns to its statehood. And how far that destruction has gone is the example that the state has entrusted the printing of school textbooks to publishers from other countries, mostly from Germany and Croatia. That sounds like black humor, like a good joke, but there's nothing funny about it. Only someone who isn't normal or someone who doesn't have any national consciousness could have made a decision to entrust the printing of textbooks to publishers from a country where 80% of the population think Jasenovac was a work camp. Imagine, too, if you could even imagine, for example, that the Russians would trust the printing of books from history to the Germans, that the Greeks would trust the printing of textbooks to the Turks, or that Syria would trust the printing of textbooks to the Americans. I hope that at the end of this year it will become the past and that the initiative of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic will be realized that even from history and geography, Serbian language in Serbia can only be printed by the state, so that what happened to us earlier in the course - Knowledge of nature and society teaches us that the state of Raška bordered Croatia in the 9th century. I've got a map here that I've downloaded from the textbook, there's something amazing here, you have a state of Raska and you have around Croatia. Croatia is bordering on this map in the west of Drina, in the north of West Morava, in the south of Tara and Ibra. You know, on this map, Croatia covers today's Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Northern Albania until the mouth of the Drim River in the Adriatic Sea and Serbia north of West Morava including Kralje, Kragujevac, Smederevo and Belgrade. When the results of the work of Aleksandr Vukic are summed up in the future, when the results of the SNS work are summed up, be assured that the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Serbian Language and Cyrillic will be recorded as our great contribution to its people and to their country. Ladies and gentlemen, since it's flag day, I've brought here a flag that was first developed right here on Kajmachalan. The last time she was developed in the Cayman was 14 days ago, on September 1st, when we went there to arrange for the Church of St. Ilia to mark the 105th anniversary of the Thessaloniki Front Break. The next time he's gonna turn to the Cayman the day after tomorrow, when he and his co-workers from the Great Plan Municipality, I'm going there to bow down to the shadows of Serbian heroes. Otherwise, this is a Serbian flag, the first Serbian flag to turn on Dusan's town above Prizren after 1999. This Serbian flag swerved, I will read not to forget: in Karpatim, Cera and Tekeriš, Olympus and Zebrinjak, Major and Kadinjaca, in Pecko Patriarchy and Dečani, in the Sar-planina, Novi Brdo and Gazimestan, on the Fortress above Mostar, on the Zeitlinnik, on Velika Vitorog, Radusha and so on, and on 4 August of this year, of course, did not accidentally turn over Knin, at the highest peak of Dinara mountain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9204	Thank you. George Milicevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9205	I thank you, the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that today on the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the National Flag, it is a pleasure to talk about the protection of our language and letter. I am taking the opportunity to congratulate our people today's holiday, even though you president belong to the SPS parliamentary group, but I am using the opportunity as the head of the SPS parliamentary group to congratulate our people today's holiday and to remind what my colleague was already talking about, that this holiday was established in memory of the breakthrough of the Thessaloniki Front in 1918 in honor of the famous ancestors, the Thessalonikiites. This day is a confirmation of our state's commitment to respect our history and our ancestors, to honor our victims for freedom and to owe them eternal gratitude. I would remind some who have decided to burn their country's flag if they have offended our dead Thessalonikians who fought for freedom for all of us, it is as if they burned the flags under which the Thessalonikians freed Serbia from the occupiers. Today we need to show state and national unity. This is what all nations do, and why some people have a problem when Serbs want to be unique, wherever they live, we have a full right. Of course, opponents would rather stay on that saying by our enemies – God forbid the Serbs agree. All of this does not mean that all of our citizens living in Serbia, who are nationalities, do not enjoy all minority rights according to the highest European standards. The evidence of this understanding and good relations with our national minorities respecting their country is also the amendment of the SVM parliamentary group to the proposal for a law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection of Cyrillic preservation. An amendment submitted by this parliamentary group to Article 1. The government has accepted, it refers to the right of national minorities to use the Cyrillic and Serbian language at the same time, while using the language and letter of their minority. The same provision is also set out in the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters in Article 1 paragraph 3 of the Law, but this amendment also provides for this right in the exact same text. The SPS parliamentary group supports the government's position on this amendment because it is indisputable and already established law. It is very interesting how certain circles of opponents strengthen Serbian national identity and as a people whose ancestors founded Serbia, we have the right to patriotism and our roots, and Serbian and Cyrillic are actually our roots. Why should other nations around the world have the right to their own language and letter without the right to belong to us. To this we have the right and as a member of the UN, the language of all nations of the world is guarded by the Union, promoting values as I spoke during yesterday's debate in principle, six thousand peoples speaking the nations and ethnic groups of the world. The fact that the Cyrillic is threatened is no news, on the contrary, it has been warned for a long time, but only this government and state leadership have decided to step up measures to protect the preservation of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. Of course, it is clear from now on that no national minority is threatened by the protection of our national language and our letter. Those who are threatened are likely to feel those who want to create some of their own countries in the territory of our country as national minorities, as an attempt to create a self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. Dear Minister, you have so far shown great commitment and responsibility when it comes to the legacy of our people. You spoke publicly about the endangered cultural heritage at KIM, which was often spoken of by my colleagues Snezana Paunović and me, and other colleagues from the parliamentary group. We believe that you will approach this law in exactly the same way, and in all things we will support you as a parliamentary group, of course. We have talked several times about the need to collect, to list our written heritage, because thousands of old and rare and historically important books of Cyrillic, old Slovenian or Wolf scattered around the world, some have been kidnapped, some have been donated, some have been sheltered, to remind me that the Ilovski prescription of the Holy Sava Law today is in Croatia, because during World War II, from the Ilovica monastery on Prevlaca, it was stolen by the Ustashas. Cyrillic and Serbian are also protected by these values of our language and letter. Once again, of course, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group supports the government's stance and will back the amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9206	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9207	The Honorable President, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I want to begin at the beginning on behalf of Unique Serbia Dragan Markovic Palma and, in my personal name, to congratulate the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of Republika Srpska, as well as the Serbs of Montenegro, Croatia, Northern Macedonia and around the world, wherever they are, National Unity Day, Freedom and National Flag. I want to tell them to mark and celebrate that day with pride and I want them to celebrate it in health, happiness and peace. Perhaps today is the opportunity to recall the good and dear old Serbian prayers that our ancestors prayed to God in the most difficult historical moments. This prayer is: God forbid the Serbs agree, multiply and worship. Perhaps as no other sentence spoken in Serbian and written in a Cyrillic letter, this prayer accurately describes why we are celebrating today National Unity Day, Freedom and the national flag, but it is precise and clear that it shows our greatest values as well as our greatest faults. This prayer involves all the greatness of the Serbian people when they are unique, when they take care of their offspring and the future, and when they turn to their faith. Serbia is strong then, Serbia is its own then, Serbia is independent then, free, Serbia is then firm in its beliefs. Such a policy is today run by the Republic of Serbia, a policy of respect and respect for others, a policy of reconciliation and co-operation both with neighbours, with countries in the environment and with the whole world, but today Serbia also leads a self-respect policy. Our policy of Serbia is neither pro-Western nor pro-fuss, nor pro-Kine, our policy is, above all, pro-Serbian, or Serbian politics and politics of the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia today takes care of Serbia's interests, but also takes care of the interests of the Serbian people wherever they are. Serbia takes care of both Republika Srpska and Serbs in Montenegro and everywhere in the world. It is not the Serbian hegemony that falsely accuses Milo Djukanovic and Bakir Izetbegovic of this, we respect the sovereignty of both Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Serbia is the one who insists on international law. It is Serbia that insists on respecting the Dayton Agreement. Serbia is the one who is interested and is seeking respect for human, national, religious rights and freedoms of the Serbian people everywhere, and even in Montenegro, and is asking nothing less than what Viktor Orban, for example, wants from Serbia and does not forget that we resent Hungary, but on the contrary, on this principle of mutual respect and respect, we are building the best possible relations with our northern neighbour. Today, we need this policy of national unity perhaps more than ever, because the Serbian Corps in the Balkans today is under a number of threats, many challenges that can only be solved with strong national unity. Threatening Serbia's territorial sovereignty and integrity in the area of Kosovo and Metohija and trying to revise the Dayton Agreement with the goal of uniting Bosnia and Herzegovina and undermining Republika Srpska's attempts to take away the assets of the SPC and taking away the national identity of Montenegrin citizens who declare themselves Serbs, and there are 30% of them are the biggest challenges facing our national policy. From here, national unity is more necessary today than ever. Freedom is the top national goal of all countries, including the Serb people, perhaps the Serbian people are the best example of how important freedom is and how far the achievement of that goal simply has no price. The Serbian people have never calculated in defence of that goal, in defence of freedom. He always showed that he loved freedom first and foremost. We knew in history, as famous poet Marko Miljanov would say, “to defend ourselves from others, but also to keep others from ourselves. ” Today in the 21st century, we need peace and stability, economic and all kinds of other co-operation, both in the region and in the world. We need to strengthen our economy more and more, to better regulate our country, which in one period until ten years ago has been very abandoned, because only the economically strong and well-organised state and with a stable and peaceful region and Serbia, but the whole Balkans will cease to be a dark fairy or accursed aviary and only an economically strong and stable state can be free, independent and its own. Today on this day, for this solemn moment, means on the Day of National Unity of Freedom and the national flag, we must, with great love, respect and pride, highlight our tricolor, because after this tricolor we have won our freedom, we have built a state by this tricolor, we have been married by this tricolor, we have been baptized. Today, with the 15th of September 2021, exactly 103 years since the breach of the Thessaloniki Front in Jagodina, the 103m long Serbian flag has been symbolically developed, and in this way we symbolically wanted to mark today's holiday and honor all fallen fighters, not only on the Thessaloniki front, but in all other historical important moments. I don't understand some of our neighbors who have a problem with a three-boy thanks to whom and with the help they've been released. There was also a Battle of Mojkovica, the Thessaloniki front was breached, Croatia was released. It's not a question of someone's... tends to be an important identity issue, just like the Serbian language and Cyrillic, just like our Orthodox faith and the SPC. Serbia does not mind independent and independent Montenegro, Serbia mind that Serbs in Montenegro are threatened with elementary human rights, the right to work, the right to national identity, the right to religion, the right to property that the people of Montenegro and the SPC have inherited for centuries, we are bothered by the attempt to revise history. I ask the question how many Serbs in Montenegro today work in state institutions and there are 30% in Montenegro? On what basis is the ownership of the Serbian Orthodox Church taken over churches, monasteries, church estates? On what basis are Serbian and Cyrillic thrown out of Montenegro's education system? If I said that the prayer "God forbid Serbs to agree, multiply and worship" is somewhere and the ultimate goal of our national policy, then this goal cannot be achieved if we do not do much, much more as a people in terms of increasing growth. Only if we succeed in restoring our nation can we talk about strong, strong and free Serbia. There is no strong Serbia if there is no strong childcare in every corner of the Serbian state. There's no strong Serbia unless there's a lot of school benches. There is no strong Serbia without baptism and marriage, and this is the basis and foundation of every society -- family, young generations. Let us pray once again on today's Day of National Unity, Freedom and National Freedom by praying "God forbid Serbs agree, multiply and worship". Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9208	Thank you, colleague Starčević. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9209	The Honorable President, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected Deputy Prime Minister with an associate, each people has the right to protect their culture, tradition, their language and their letter and it is absolutely not controversial. What we also had through the discussion of the leaders of our party academics Muamer Zukorlic and other MPs of Stanka Justice and Reconciliation and, in the end, through these amendments is that at one point in time there was a coldness of minority communities that this law might in some way go to harm the rights that already existed. It is clear that the Constitution as the largest legal act would not allow it, however, the Deputy Prime Minister said when she discussed it, and not only the lawyers, but the average educated man, that when something is important, the Constitution and the law and international conventions must be taken into account. I think that because of the implementation of this law, especially at the bar, it's very important that we have these amendments that are quality, which help better understand the law, so that we don't enter unnecessary authentic interpretations, analysis, complaints, etc., because this is a law that must be implemented here in the National Assembly, implemented in practice, and then every president of the municipality and head of the municipal administration or director doesn't have enough legal, general education, or diplomatic skills to know what to do, and then usually in practice grabs it for something and then we have problems. These amendments are important. I think they are fundamentally helping to better interpret this law and it is good that both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolution Committee have accepted these amendments. This speaks of the democratic capacity of both our government and our Assembly. We live at one time in globalisation, in a time when it will be very difficult to preserve our identity and language, and it does not only apply to the Bosnian language, nor to the Serbian language, but also to this challenge are faced by far more numerous peoples and a much stronger state. What is my recommendation to both our ministry and our government is to invest more in culture, to invest more in our cultural workers, but also to open up a whole new front and to stimulate it, which is the front in the IT sector, in the IT industry, because it's about some dam where we will defend our identity in the future, defend our language and defend our culture. Every empire has spread its culture, its language, its tradition and ultimately its religious beliefs and hence so many Turks and German words in our space. Today we also have words from English. And so the United States or Western society as some dominant force in every respect extends its culture, extends its tradition and extends its language and so I think that, apart from the law, they are good, necessary, necessary, caring for our identities and our languages and defending them, we will primarily have in some new field that we may not have treated so much so far, and these are new technologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9210	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9211	The Honorable President, honourable Members of the People, the Honorable Minister Gojkovic, I am unusually pleased that today I have the opportunity not only to discuss and report on this agenda point, regardless of what we have now, in some way, to define our discussion, everything we had in mind two days ago to say that I think we should use today and say in any case. At the very beginning, I would wish all Serbian citizens a happy holiday, a holiday of national unity, freedom and flag. I think in this order of words that goes on -- unity, freedom and flag, it shows that we in our rich history have come to freedom in all our history, and that our flag symbolizes everything that has represented our so rich history. Also, I would like to congratulate this holiday, which I hope, in the coming time period and norm how we are norming today and this Law on the protection of Cyrillic letters and Cyrillics and in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the parliament of Republika Srpska, in which I was also honored to be a national MP, and therefore, because of all the initiatives that were before, because of all the obstructions that were in the previous period of time, because of all the evil and bad forces that went in this direction, that they were trying to make Serbs as a people in the Republic of Serbia, in the Republic of Serbia, the right to have their national identity, our national history, our freedom for which they were so hard to fight, to challenge that this day is just symbolizing all the people who live there in the same age, that we will never give up to all our ancestors, our grandfathers, our fathers, our fathers, our fathers, our fathers, our fathers, in peace, and we today, in our freedom, and we hope that, and our overall unity, in all our history, who live in all the poor people who live in the same way that our poor people, who live in the past and in the past, and in the past, and in order that we are in the futures and in the future, which we live. Our history and all that we have succeeded on today in the breakthrough of the Thessaloniki Front also shows that other peoples in the region, above all, should say, in the Republic of Slovenia, in the Republic of Croatia, have little respect for today's date and all that the famous Serb army has done, too today should also not only respect but also celebrate. However, unfortunately, today, when you read various media inscriptions in electronic and written media, you see that in many of these countries, as well as unfortunately in BiH, we have inscriptions, a history that probably should have been written in the 1990s, as if there were no history, as if there were no World War I, as if there were no World War II, as if there were no famous Serb armies, as if there were no Serbs who were on the winning side and struggled to free both Croatian homes and Slovenian and all others, and that today they enjoy the benefits of their statehood, and that Serbs, as citizens of the second order, whose Cyrillic letter does not allow to be used in that most basic way, the most minimal, so we know everything that happened in Vukovar, or if you pass in the second part of BiH, the Federation of BiH, so you see there, because bilinguality is mandatory, so you have a written in every part of BiH, in the city and in the law of BiH. That's hundreds and hundreds of names. Therefore, for this reason, we should proudly highlight the Cyrillic in both Belgrade and Banja Luka and Nis and Novi Sad, as should the flag. Not these murals that have appeared all over Serbia in the nationalally conscious citizens of the Republic of Serbia are any threat, any muscle-building or showing, let me say, some sense of the national hegemony of the Serbian people. That's exactly what in the past time period, unfortunately, because of the policy that was misled, especially in the former state, we had to give up, and we didn't forget those things, everything that's our identity. Of course, it is obvious that many today are not only a distraction from Alexander Vukic and SNS. I can't believe that someone on some television who got a license, who's in line with these tycoon televisions, last night in prime time at eight o'clock, says for a Serbian New Sad trio, and compares it to flags that are during Nazi Germany and fascist Germany and Italy, set in that period, that someone is willing to excuse it and be so crazy that they can say something like that, and I don't know what degree of rudeness there is in these people, who are willing to be editors of certain televisions, let it go in prime time and compare the flag of the Republic of Serbia with Nazi Germany. For these very reasons, precisely because of the pride of our Serbian flag, our national flag, it should be pointed out not as much as it has been pointed out these days, but much, much more to show the things that mean that under that flag we are manifesting both unity and freedom. Those who are not for unity, who are trying today and who every day say that they are bothered by Aleksandar Vukic, SNS, show that they are bothered by Serbia, that they are bothered by the Serbian flag, that today's big holiday also bothers them and show that tomorrow, if by any miracle, God, don't let them come to power, that they don't even point out the flag, our national flag, so that they don't celebrate this holiday either. It is time to say it, it is time to say who these people are who represent such a policy and how they see Serbia. They see Serbia that way, and Republika Srpska, in which they would live in some space if it was in any way possible not to even be called that, that there is no flag, that there is no history and there is no Cyrillic letter. That's the other Serbia. It is Serbia that will not be under a common banner, under a common banner that implies that we are manifesting unity in the region as well as in Serbia. Unity with Republika Srpska gives us not only the Dayton Peace Agreement, but the Agreement on special and parallel ties as an opportunity to actually cultivate our tradition. Is our history something we should be ashamed of? Is our identity something we should be ashamed of? Is faith ours to be ashamed of, or is that exactly what we should point out and be proud of? I think it is for pride and that every day, correcting practically historic mistakes that have been in the past time period, we have a hard and dedicated work to say tomorrow that we have past work and that tomorrow, without any calls, we would all point out Serbian flags and proudly say that we live in Serbia, in this case, if we live in Serbia, if we have National Unity Day, if we are Serbs or other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we know why we highlighted that flag and what we managed to achieve everything under that flag, and how historically important all of our ancestors have been to us today not only to reward, but also to make sure that in a certain way everything in the future we achieve even more. At the very end, I want to say one very important thing, which is very important to me personally, and I think that it integrates unity in every sense of the word and that the unity that involves today's unity in Serbia, which we seek is much more than that, that any border, any state, or even the state of Serbia in which we live, is below what our people are, which is our tradition, which is our history, which is our religion. And no one can forbid us, no one can make it impossible for us. We have the right to point it out over and over again, and it is not good that, as they artificially imposed on us to divide ourselves in some geographical terms, the unity of the Serbian people is the imperative of every policy, and the politics of Alexander Vukic and this historic period, the historical day, shows not only that he is willing to talk about it, but has launched processes that we have practically waited for more than a hundred years, precisely because of pride, because of the future of our children, about when they come to Banja Luka and Podgorica and to Belgrade and Novi Sad, and when they go to Kordun and to Lika and Dalmatia, to be proud of their Serbian origins, because they will thus show that they know their history, what symbolises their flag and what symbolises the people to whom they belong. Long live the Republic of Serbia! Long live Republika Srpska! Long live the Serbian people!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9212	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9213	Thank you. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity as the president of the USS to congratulate my colleagues before me on the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag. For all of us, we carry it in our hearts, we carry it in our souls, all of us who are here, we must respect and appreciate all of our sacrifices that our ancestors gave us to be here now, to speak today to celebrate this, that each of our houses, that every one of our houses has a Serbian flag on the house. As my colleague used to say before me, ours prayed and fought for every man, for every inch of the Serbian country. So once again, I congratulate today on all our Serbs, wherever they live, whether here in our country, whether in Republika Srpska, whether in northern Macedonia, whether in Montenegro. We're all Serbs, and we don't have to be ashamed of it, because we carry it all in our soul and in our heart. Otherwise, I will say again, as I said last time, that this country was being defended by Serbia, fed by our peasants, by the people who were in the front lines when the country was defending itself, by people who were always ready to be there on the defender of our country. Therefore, we must honor this day, and we must respect all that other nations respect. Otherwise, I think, the Serbian tripod, it's the Serbian village, the Serbian church and the Serb army, it's us. That's what we are now, here, now, and forever and ever. Once we go to a nearby country, close to us, we all always respect the host and have always been good hosts in Serbia. The Serbian peasant is really something we have to work on, to protect him, to help these people, anywhere to live, whether it's Srlig, Novi Sad, any part of Serbia. All of us who live off that work must respect each other more. These amendments, adopted by the government, I support and that's the right thing to do. We respect every man in our country. Once again, I would take the opportunity to congratulate everyone today and pray for our Serbian people, for all people, for all Serbs to multiply and worship. Long live Serbia and the best!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9214	Thank you. The word is Nikola Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9215	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, a respected minister with a co-worker, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, it is a great honor that today, on the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and National Flags, I can vote for this important law on Serbia, for the Serbian people, on the use of Serbian language in public life and on the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters. The bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the use of the Cyrillic letter confirms the state's concerns about the national letter and language. The announcement that this law will be passed has been welcomed by many linguists, and it is up to us to establish material on the history of our letter and pass it on to the offspring to cherish it. Many of my fellow MPs spoke of this law, of the importance of the letter. Serbia's public is fully aware of the provisions of this law, and since the law aims to cultivate Serbian and Cyrillic letters, in order to preserve all cultural and traditional values, I would refer to Article 8 of this law, point. 3) and 4), which say that social concerns about the protection and preservation of Serbian language and Cyrillic script, with point 3) - support for the study and affirmation of Serbian written heritage, its protection against the acquisition and counterfeiting, which is very important, and point 4) - support, protection and preservation of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters in the country and abroad. I have to notice that global warming seriously leaves traces on our neighbours and that individuals and individuals begin to see each other, so they try to adopt everything that is Serbian, through various attempts to reverse history and invent it. Instead of worrying about some of their economic and political concerns, which are overrun, some Croats are trying to heal their obvious frustrations where there is no cure and looking into our backyard. Having nothing authentic and valuable, internationally recognised, they tried to steal a Cyrillic letter from us in 2012 and by holding an international scientific meeting in Zagreb, titled "Croatian Cyrillic Heritage". This was about marking the 500th anniversary of printing the first Croatian book on Cyrillic "Dubrovnik Cyrillic Prayer". The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is trying to falsify history, so they are calling for monuments written with Cyrillic, which are now on the territory of today's Croatia. These are not their monuments, they were only created on the ground, i.e. in that territory when Croatia did not even exist. Along with the persecution of Serbs, the Croats also carried out persecution of the Cyrillic letter. Of course they don't stop here, but they own everything that's Serbian, so they make up and represent Nikola Tesla as a Croat and not a Serb, who was born in today's territory of Croatia, or they convince themselves that Tesla is a Croat, and they know very well that Tesla is a Serb. If he had not been expelled and killed by a complete rope and a wider family in Croatia, that they had not destroyed his monument in Gospić, and that someone believed him to be a Croat. So far away this goes that they invented that Montenegrins are not actually Montenegrins, that Montenegrins do not have Serbian origin, but that Montenegrins are red Croats. In all that confusion and infirmities and envy they also attack our president, Alexander Vukic, just because he gave his youngest son the Serbian name - Vukan. Namely, Croatia's former prominent morning list attacks our president because he named his son Vukan after Stefan Nemanje's oldest son and associated it with Serbian nationalism. It hit me personally because I have a son, Vukan, who is older than the president's son. Well, we're not gonna name our kids Franjo, Stipe, Jure or Puhalo, are we? Of course we'll give our children Serbian names. Also, all citizens of Serbia, according to their tradition, whatever nationality they belonged to, can name as they wish. No one is defending anyone who will name their children, but this crosses all the limits of good taste, immorality and hatred that the president's children are used to spread hatred towards Serbia, towards Serbs, which is quite unnecessary. Vukan is a beautiful Serbian traditional name, and what President Vukic sees as modern Serbian Stefan Nemanja is a clear indicator that Serbia is headed by President Aleksandar Vukic on the right track, and this and how it bothers them, their leadership position in the region and when it comes to the economy, and when it comes to military and political power. That is why the law is of great importance to the state of Serbia, in order to preserve its historical and cultural values. I have to look back at our SPC, which is a symbol of the preservation of all Serb values, which in every way possible they want to bring down throughout the region. That the influence of the sun and global warming is too great in the region, and Albanians are trying to own everything that is Serbian, SPC and our sanctity. Why have Albanians been looking back for years to adopt Serbian churches and destroy them years ago? There were about 1,500 Serbian Orthodox churches and churches in Kosovo and Metohija, and in the last 20 years it has been destroyed, burned or damaged somewhere around 150 Orthodox temples, so that the kidnapping and acquisition of anything that is Serbian does not stop. Albanians want to adopt a Serbian historical heritage and to overturn history for the sake of their identity. They represent the Patriarchy as the Patriarch of the Albanian Orthodox Church in their media. Serbia today is a strong and modern state with the fastest growth and progress. As we fight for new investment, stronger economy, power, so we also preserve our cultural values, our tradition, our history, and this law and language and letter. The Serbian Cyrillic belongs to the most perfect letter in the world, consisting of 30 characters where each sign represents one vote. The law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection of the preservation of Cyrillic letters will preserve Cyrillic, Serbian language and Serbian tradition. That's why today, along with my colleagues, I will vote proudly for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9216	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go. Sign up again, Mr. Yokic. Please, when I give you my word, just wait a few seconds and sign in. We'll block the system, there'll be an hour's break so we can work again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9217	I apologize for this technical misunderstanding. Gentlemen, I would talk about applying this law, without some quotes, without big words, etc. It's a little sad that we had to pass this law. From whom do we protect the Serbian language and Cyrillic? From who? By ourselves, by us Serbs. We have brought the Serbian language and Cyrillic into this state. Of all the ministries, the first place was the Ministry of Education in 2000 when we introduced a curricula, when educational workers wondered what it was, when we got donations from Germany, when we turned third-degree education profiles into fourth-degree educational profiles and tried to make as many foreign words as possible to be smarter, to be in the course of European reforms. Therefore, since the law stipulates that it is applied in six months because of companies, Minister, listen to what I am about to say, most importantly, that in the application of this law we should go from ourselves. Each of us goes and protects the Serbian language and Cyrillic. When? When he speaks in this congregation, when he writes that he does not write in Latin, that he writes in Cyrillic, that we respect grammar and spelling. So, we MPs to look here, because we listen to citizens, listen to us students and students as we speak, what we say, what words we use. So, we go first. And who else? The Ministry. You take the written materials we get for the work of the Assembly. Do you know how many spelling mistakes there are? That's terrible. That's terrible. Every ministry, minister, should have a man who will review the texts that will come. Here I was talking about when there was a law from the Ministry of Education, when one sentence was long, I think, a third page. Do you understand? No dots, no commas, etc. That has to be taken care of. So, come on, don't just attack, let's do everything we need to do to make this law live. Don't wait six months for, I don't know, companies. Some fines are scheduled. There's nothing we can do about it. Captain, we can't handle this. The capital has its function. That foreign capital has also contributed, perhaps, to us getting into this situation. Now, since we've already come to this situation, give it up, so that everyone first hears themselves what he can do to save the Serbian language and the Cyrillic. Don't write in Latin today. If there are any MPs here who have communicated in writing with Latin, let them begin writing with Cyrillic today. It's already a contribution, it's an application. The hardest thing to do is law enforcement, because there's no law enforcement control. Not just this one, in the domain of culture, but in every domain. That's what we miss. Many of us have passed laws, but we have never controlled, to see how they are applied, what are the effects, who is to blame for not applying the laws. In that sense, the law is what it is. This is good for national minorities, which is accepted, although it is written in the Constitution and what national minorities repeat as mantra. It was supposed to be done because there's a lot of not-so-well-intentioned people. That's what a lot of people talked about, I won't. So my call, my appeal is – let me take a look at it. They've recorded a lot of their speeches and they've got what they've been saying and how they said let's throw out some words. Here, let's take the word - app. You have to, she says, applicate. Be careful, that word of application has multiple meanings. Not only does the application mean the application, the application means the display. Can't you tell him – hello, mate, you have to write an application, you have to write a request, but you have to apply? You can say that, listen, you have to show. So these are some things that we, we Serbs, are written people, we who have finished colleges, we who are up at the top now, we have contributed most to this, and that is why we need to go to correct our mistakes. So, once again, let's look at the spellings, look at these materials, and we, in our discussions, start from today to protect the Serbian language. About this, the Minister, the written documents, that we respect Cyrillic etc., spelling and other things, and then it'll all go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9218	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9219	Thank you. I thank the MPs for their discussions so far, especially you, Ambassador Jokic. It is a great pleasure when a representative of the government and a minister sits in this place, and when MPs finally use their control function, so that we will be more shared and satisfied if you use your control function more over the application of laws also passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government proposes, of course. I do not want to say that the lower responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is for some time not to implement certain provisions of the laws that have been passed in the past, are valid both now and now that we are now in place. Believe me, I've noticed many things like you, I'm one of the newest ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and I've received documents that don't match the spirit of Serbian, with many foreign expressions. Of course, there was also a lack of respect for the Law on the Official Use of Serbian Language, so in the Ministry of Culture and Information it happened that we received not only a statement in Serbian written Cyrillic, as it is said in our language, but it was happening that we received the statement of the document absolutely not translated into Serbian, but in English as well. Believe me, as Minister of Culture and Information, I am obliged to return such as this, without any peorative meaning of my gesture, but in accordance with the law that the Government is proposing, and Parliament is passing. I went back to translation first, and then insisted that the translation be in the Serbian language as the law reads. So, we have to communicate in Serbian and Cyrillic, and if we know foreign languages, it's nice to communicate with the world when guests come to us and when in some non-formal contacts we talk to them, because there are never any informal contacts with politicians and there's not too much relaxation, but it's good that you can communicate in their languages. As far as official use is concerned, there must be strict compliance with the law we already have, and now we are just stressing and expanding the circle of entities that are obliged to behave just as well as state authorities. You're absolutely right that it often happens that we don't respect it ourselves, but to a lesser extent, compared to, say, public enterprises that have completely forgotten where they live, forgot that they have to obey the law and they've been easier to then, say, inscriptions and charts on objects used by these public enterprises be exclusively in the Latin letter. So I agree with you, but I appeal that the MPs are here to criticise us, to control whether we are applying the law that you are making, and then we will do the right results. As for this government of the Republic of Serbia, the government before that, indeed thanks to the country's president's policy, which insists, a lot of attention is being paid to the protection of cultural heritage. We have kind of ignored it or started to think that everything is understood, so that the cultural heritage of our country and the people who live here, whether Serbian or our national minorities, will be protected from themselves. It seems that it will not, but it will self-destruct itself, and the concern must be constant, and we are learning it from all European peoples, including the worlds, how they do it when it comes to their cultural heritage. They pay attention to the smallest things. They care about cultural heritage that is not only on their country's territory, but also on other countries' territories. We have this in bilateral talks with them and they ask the question -- what about this monument, what about this piece of art, etc. which, of course, is legally based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but we are obliged to take care of both other monuments and memorial features etc. We are learning this well from them, and this government of the Republic of Serbia is increasingly paying attention to the protection of the cultural heritage of the Serbian people outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, and of course there are in the former Yugoslav republics, now independent states, and there are them across Europe, there are also wider, depending on the historical period, where, for example, the Serbian army was located and where they have lost and left their lives for the ideals then and for the freedom of Europe, the world, our people and so on. Just to remind you what we've done lately. Together, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have proposed, you have adopted, the Museum Heritage Act. It's an extremely important law. Together, we concluded that since the 1960s there has been no law on museum work, on which we base our entire concern for cultural heritage. We're on our way to search for stolen items across cultural institutions, and we have some first, not small results. A picture of Vlah Bukovac was found, in the 20 years since it was stolen, and more since it was stolen. We didn't give up, we worked together. As soon as we've established some first clue where it might be and Vlah Bukovac will be here soon. We started buying items at auctions when we found out there was an item at auctions, and it's of interest to come back to Serbia. It will all be exposed in the future historic Serbian museum, which is being done in the Sava Square, in the former railway station building. The Cultural Heritage Act -- we've completed a public debate and now we're trying to put all these remarks we've received into that law. You've recently passed the Sremski Karlovci Act and we've begun our implementation. We held our first meeting and now we expect all the members of this Commission to protect and develop the Sremski Karlovci to make their proposals in which direction we should go. I'm saying, it's all a tough job together. The government started building a theater in Sremski Karlovci on the eve of the bombing. In 2000, new power comes to the head of the Republic of Serbia, and they have brought the building down, and now 20 and a few years later, the challenge is again before the Ministry of Culture to build an object that would be a cultural centre and exist in Sremski Karlovci. The Hilandar Act will be on the agenda, as far as I'm aware, next week and we'll talk about how much the state has invested so far, what we're going to do next. It's the first time in our history, and we're full of mouths of both Carlovci and Hilandar, I don't mean us here, but also in the past when someone else ruled Serbia, but nothing concrete is done. For the first time, we will pass a law in which we will undertake to take constant care of Hilandar, not only when some unkind events occur. We now have the Law on the Protection and Use of Serbian Language and Cyrillic Letters here. As for Nikola Tesla and the attempt to be something other than a Serb, it's not the 21st century where everything is suddenly possible, and they say that you weren't here today, that you were erased in some videos, that you weren't discussing, so someone's trying to erase Nikola Tesla that he's not a Serb and they're turning him into a Croat, and they forget that they're erasing that Nikola Tesla by erasing his monument. They didn't want there to be a trace of where he was born. Here's what we're doing -- we're making exhibitions all over Europe and around the world about Nikola Tesla, and we want those buildings that his cousin, who inherited the entire property of Nikola Tesla, who he gave to show to the whole world that they know that Nikola Tesla is a Serbian scientist who changed the whole world, and if someone has to admire Nicola Tesla, it's certainly Serbia and the United States, and not someone else who seems attractive to say that Nikola Tesla was from a country that didn't even exist at the time he was born. It is tragic that it happened with Serbian and Cyrillic letters and should not run away from it. In recent history, what did one of the directors of the National Library of Serbia, Mr. Ugricic, who was the manager from 2001 to 2012? What was his concern about the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter? He signed the agreement, I think, with a congress library in Washington where he accepted that everything that was printed, books and anything else, publications in the latinic letter would be, that it was the cultural heritage of Croatia and not Serbia. When someone attacks us today why we insist on preserving the Cyrillic letter, then what more argument than you're going to make to us with one move, one truly unfair signature took away some of our cultural heritage because, as far as I know, we write with Cyrillic and Latin. I have read books all my life, like you, honourable MPs, in one letter and another, believing that it is important that our authors wrote it in our language. I say, it's been a while since everything is understood and we have to fight to protect our cultural heritage, to protect our history, to protect our identity. That's a little weird in the 21st century, but what happened before us, now we have to fix those results. And for me, it was a new piece of information. You've taken her out here more than once. So I will legally deal with whether it is possible now to annul this agreement, which has the character that everything printed on the Latin, is becoming the cultural heritage of another people, not of the Serbian people. If that is possible, I am convinced that the new warden, Mr. Vladimir Pistalo, will accept my suggestion and that we will try to correct such a devastating move for our culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9220	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck, Rosalia Ekres, Akoš Ujhelji, Daniel Giovanni, Dr Emese Uri and Nandor Kish. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9221	Thank you, Chairman. I would like first to congratulate you on the Day of Serbian Unity and Freedom and National Flag. I'm the name of this great holiday speaks enough. Today, we finally have the best possible national unity in Serbia's recent history. The dignity and unity of the Serbian people has been restored by Aleksandar Vukic, our president, thanks to his policy over the past few years. I want to remind, by 2012, for years and decades, the unity of the Serbian people has been systematically destroyed, on both sides of the Drina River and the unity of the people wherever they live and wherever they are. However, fortunately, we had these political changes in 2012 and in all the next elections, and so it was last year, it was that policy which was for unity, not only of the Serbs, but of all other nations living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that of unity because of the achievement of all interests of both our country and all its citizens. Also, freedom is very important. Unfortunately, there are still certain parts of the Balkans where our people have not returned to their centuries-old hearths, but as someone who was born in Republika Srpska, Trebinj and who has lived in Vrakar since he was seven years old, I want to point out the following. My family lives in the territory of several countries of the former Yugoslavia and if there was not this policy of national unity, Serbian unity, which is successfully managed by Aleksandar Vukic, the question is also how our citizens would live and to live, not only my family, but all families. I believe that most Serbian citizens have close relatives in their family located either in the territory of Northern Macedonia or in Montenegro, BiH, Croatia, Slovenia or in other surrounding states. It is therefore important to implement this legal policy, this policy and Serbian unity, as well as policies and the preservation of all other interests of all other nations living in the Republic of Serbia. Also, our dear countrymen, our dear friends of Hungarian, Bosniak nationality and other nationalities, also have close relatives in their families who live mainly, not only in Serbia, but also in some neighbouring countries. But on all of that, we've had systematic blows just the most to Serbia and the Serbian people. Someone wanted from the outside, supported by those inside elements, to destroy this unity and not be close to Serbia, Serbia, or Republika Srpska, so as not to worry about and worry about the Serb people living in both Montenegro and the Federation of BiH, both in northern Macedonia and the rest of the Serb population living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, just this policy, this policy and Serbian unity and freedom is the policy that leads our country to a safe future. Serbia and Republika Srpska have never had as good relations as they do today, and certainly the highest credit is for President Aleksandar Vukic, along with his closest associates and the government of the Republic of Serbia. What are the wishes of those who are against this, we have had the opportunity to see until 2012, and we have the opportunity to see this in opposition performances, i.e. The actions of the opposition in Serbia, which both Alexander Vucic and you from the Serbian government and we MPs are in trouble, because we are currently implementing this policy, the policy of interest of the Serbian state and its citizens. Who are these people who are attacking and who are bothered by both the Serb unity and the freedom of our people and the freedom of all nations in Serbia and that we are also celebrating the day of our national flag in this way. It certainly bothers Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Marinika Tepic and their comrades. Why does it bother them? Because they are bothered by what is on their way to power and to continue to kidnap from Serbian citizens. They are bothered by all the good that President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing. In order to achieve their intentions, they must bring down both institutions and attack in every way possible both President Vukic and his family and you from the Serbian government, us MPs and all those who, honestly, courageously and professionally in state institutions, are doing their job, regardless of whether it is health, military, police, energy, economy, education or any other sector. Mrs Gojkovic also mentioned the return of certain paintings of great artistic value and certainly material value. I would just like to remind you that only those gatherings of Dragan Djilas and Jeremic were the leaders and the abductions and buildings of paintings and other artistic values on October 5th 2000. That's what DOS relations were like back then, Dragan Gilas and DS to artistic values. Take it, get in, burn it, kidnap it, sell it, resell it. But fortunately, I am pleased to hear such sentences as Mrs Gojkovic said, that he was able to return the part. The National Library is mentioned, every municipality in Serbia is equally important and every city, but since I come from Vračar as a People's MP, I must point out that the state has done everything unlike any former government, to the temple of St. Save will be completed, to preserve and strengthen the Nikola Tesla Museum, mentioned here on Vračar and to save the same mentioned National Library. Important institutions are located on Vrakar. Important institutions are located in all parts of Serbia, important institutions in the area and culture and history, our past. It was all preserved and saved by the state of Serbia. I repeat again, the current state policy led by Aleksandar Vukic not only has restored national dignity, not only has it restored Serbia's dignity and strengthened Serbia from year to year, but also takes care of culture and art and the protection of our Cyrillic. All nations in the world, all countries in the world protect their national letter. Why don't we do it like Serbia? This is no hack and rebellion against Latina, the Latina is respected, but it is simply necessary to know what is a state letter and how the civil servants of my dear fellow MPs here also spoke about in the public authorities and the private sector, in which way and how a Cyrillic letter should be applied daily. Whether it is forbidden, no, it is an obligation and we should not take it as a commitment, but rather be proud of our Cyrillic, we should be proud of every museum that the Serbian government has managed to save and raise, we should be proud of the National Museum and the History Museum. We should be proud of the Nikola Tesla Museum and the National Library and the Holy Sava Temple and all other religious objects, whether Catholic, Islamic. We've got to keep it, we've got to keep our history, we've got to guard our tradition. We should strengthen unity both in Serbia and outside Serbia. In Serbia, we need to strengthen the unity of all the peoples who are pushing for Serbia to be strong and to go to a safe future for our children. We should also take care of our Serbs living outside Serbia. We need to strengthen unity. Whenever it attacks one of our citizens of Serbia or a member of Serbian nationality outside Serbia, we should always protect it, because in this way we strengthen our country, we strengthen our nation, but we also strengthen all nations living in the Republic of Serbia. Is that hard? It's not. That's what it takes. On many occasions, the style saved us in our history. I'm glad we talked here today about World War I events, how when it was very difficult, 100 years ago, with our courage, our style, our perseverance, we managed to win the battles for which we were all written off. We won undefeated battles in World War I. Then we achieved certain successes, and then we showed our dignity. We have shown how he is fighting for Serbia, for the Serbian people and for all citizens of Serbia. And why can't we do that today? Only today we are fortunate to have peace and stability, which Serbia is leading peace and stability policy, the best policy, not only in Southeast Europe, but also in Europe itself. Today we have peace and need to enjoy peace, but in peace to strengthen our values. In peace to protect and strengthen and protect our Cyrillic, to protect our flag, to strengthen Serbian unity, to take care of the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia regardless of the nation, religion or political membership, and that is what is done today. To those who attack it I just want to tell – and why don't you want Serbia well? Do you have a problem with Vukic and his family just because Alexander Vukic protects and strengthens Serbia? All normal citizens should always look at the interest of both Serbia and all its citizens, because only Alexander Vukic's policy can preserve and strengthen our Serbia, and Serbia is our one, the only one we have to protect. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9222	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Lav Grigorija Pajkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Minister Gojkovic, respected MPs, citizens of Serbia, is aware of his Serbian membership, but also of the importance of preserving Serbia's national identity, especially at a time when he tried to put out Serbian nationality by foreign language and letter, Svetozar Miletic called for the fight to preserve this very important segment back in 1848, and when it comes to the survival and existence of a nation. At the beginning and during World War II, the Ustasha authorities passed a law prohibiting the use of Cyrillic letters in public and private life. Also, all Cyrillic tablets within three days had to be removed. No better Serbian letter has passed since World War II ended. Whoever opposed the way this political issue was resolved was condemned as a large Serb chauvinist. And today, the Serbian Cyrillic is many thorns in the eye. Just a few years ago, in a neighboring European country, our neighbors gave us really scary pictures that we can see with hammers, macolates smashing Cyrillic tables. Exhibitions were broken that adorned Serbian letters, something like that sad crystal night on November 9, 1938. I guess that was their inspiration. Many Serbs were beaten, breaking our Serb's mouth whenever a Serbian word was heard. Arrested, jailed, bullied. They tried various laws, acts, regulations to ban the Serbian word and the Cyrillic letter, to perform cultural genocide just as painful and unhappy as the one next door. Also, there is a trend that poses a threat to Cyrillic. Statistics say there are more than 85% of public inscriptions on the Latin. What may be even more devastating is the fact that this percentage grows from day to day. With this law, the state of Serbia will encourage businesses to highlight their inscriptions and advertisements with a Cyrillic letter. Perhaps unconsciously, we ourselves are involved in a crime against the Serbian language and the letter, and we are changing that right now. This way I appeal to all citizens to respect and protect their own. Is there a better trend than fostering your tradition? They tell us that with Serbian primitiveism, where only they have known reason to place our Cyrillic, we cannot go to Europe. The same stupided by their ignorance, infected with hatred for everything that bears an epithet - Serbian epithet, do not know that it is precisely the wealth of its kindness and diversity that is the symbol of Europe and the culture of this space. Cyrillic has always been a symbol of our people. Wherever the Cyrillic was, there were Serbs. The preservation of our letter is as important as the preservation of our Serbian Orthodox Church which established the foundation of our culture, traditions, moral principles, values. Today, the preservation of Cyrillic is very important, especially because Serbia is under great pressure, as is our President Vukic, in general in the region, in Croatia the crimes against Serbs are celebrated, in BiH it is forbidden for Serbs to think freely, in Montenegro we can see how often people are bullied, their freedom is taken away, their religion, and those of basic freedoms. Remember how many young people were arrested during lithium. Many were arrested for no reason but because they had one free spirit, they were represented as Serbs. Here, not to be an example, just remember the guy I really appreciate, Vladislav Dajkovic, an activist, who doesn't belong to any party, who's been harassed many times, arrested, simply it was terrifying what that guy went through. Why? Only because he proudly said he was Orthodox, a Serb. It is simply some freedom that no one should be decorated anywhere, especially in one European country. Many, unfortunately, share in Montenegro his grief and fate. All of this adds up to one fact. Whoever had pretentious claims against our people first and always hit the Serbian letter, and why? Exactly because Cyrillic is a symbol of our identity and mentality. A symbol of recognition of Serbian culture and tradition. If you destroy someone's identity, change your mentality, hit culture and ignore tradition, you've destroyed a nation. So I repeat, this is a question of our survival. Dear colleagues, I call on you to support this law in the voting day, as anyone has the right and the brains to oppose Cyrillic, Serbian people and Serbia. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9224	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9225	I thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Minister, representatives of the ministry, Mrdic mentioned not so long ago history and the relationship I hope will never be repeated in Serbia again, which is the DOS's relationship to arts, works of art, but also the relationship to this high house. What is true and it is good that one part of these works of art was found and was returned to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but what has not been done is that no one was responsible for this event that took place on October 5th, the burning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and classical, I would say, the theft of works of art. Someone has to be responsible for that once in Serbia. It's not a question for this ministry, I don't know why you're looking at me like that, it's not a question for this ministry, it's a question for the Justice Department. As for the amendment tabled for Article 5, the SPS parliamentary group supports the government's opinion on the amendment to Article 5, which the SVM Group submitted, because it is now allowing for its own kind of positive discrimination, i.e. the affirmation of the language rights of national minorities, through stimulating measures for the use of Serbian language and Cyrillic, along with minority languages that use minorities in the environments in which they are now living. By accepting this amendment, the Government reaffirms once again the firm commitment of our state that our people live in harmony with all the national minorities that accept Serbia as their own country, which respect the Constitution and which respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia. There is room for everyone in Serbia, because Serbia is a democratic state that does not distinguish between citizens. On the contrary, our legislative framework offers different measures of positive discrimination. I will say as an example of participation in the elections, as we are just discussing election conditions, and during the following weekend we continue the inter-party dialogue. For example, national minority parties do not need to win 3% of the vote, but it is a natural threshold, so the number of votes needed for one term. Based on what I believe to be the democratic fluid of our multiparty, we in parliament have had national minority parties since the first multilateral assembly. It was the then Democratic Community of the Duchy Hungarians, so that the Hungarian national minority living in Serbia has been creatively involved in Serbia's political life since the beginning, which I want to point out as a positive example, and I hope so, I am convinced that this will be the case in the coming period. I would like this opportunity to draw attention to our national obligations arising from this law, the Serbian language and Cyrillic should be kept safe. It is institutionally guarded through the education system, primarily in primary school, but exactly the Cyrillic state is talking about the need to think about a greater number of Serbian lessons, especially grammar. This is also important for secondary schools, because in secondary schools the attention is paid primarily to literature, not just language, grammar and language rules. It was the idea to introduce a Serbian language at the level of university education, because unfortunately, we have witnessed incorrect use of language even by highly educated people. Another proposal, although it is more of a proposal for the Ministry of Education, is that, for the sake of proper use of Serbian language in speech, the role of lecturers who are very important guardians of languages and letters should be affirmed in writing. After all, this law should be implemented by the entire government and all professional and scientific institutions, above all by SANU. It would not happen then if someone said, for example, in front of the SPS Parliamentary Group, the MP and the MP addressed him, but on behalf of the SPS Group, the MP, then the name and last name. Or “all the time ” instead of“ all the time. ” These are, of course, just some, perhaps banal examples that we meet publicly every day, but from there begins to live properly. It should be precisely with the right speech, the correct letter, today when we are flooded by Latina and the jargon talk, to resist the collapse and destruction of our Serbian language, which although the small language has the most perfect letter in the world. So, the SPS Parliamentary Group, of course, will also support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9226	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9227	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Mrs Comic, Madam Minister, respected fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens, would only point out that Mr Ugljesa Mrdic gave a great speech in which, among other things, he pointed out that it is necessary not only for this day, but also for the protection of individuals and institutions. Many said so, but I will repeat, today is the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag. So today, but every day we have to show unity in defense of freedom. These amendments will contribute to this and therefore give great thanks to the Union of Duchy Hungarians for putting up with them. For the purpose of unity and defence of freedom, I will point to Deputy Prime Minister and Ms. Comic and the public for a dramatic testimony that speaks of how individuals and institutions are threatened. It is a dramatic testimony from former Citizens' Protector, former rival President Vukic and former PSG president, who was then the strongest opposition party. So, Mr. Jankovic, in a pure Serbian language that is subject to these amendments and this law today, testifies to how, clearly, the ambassadors and strategists said that Vucic would cancel his heart, that he had heart problems, that something was wrong with his heart. And that they asked him to become a Vucician associate, no matter what he was already a Protector of the Citizens, and then to tear down the Wolf and the State from the inside. After this testimony, Sas Jankovic is no longer asked if anyone was working on the president's head or then Prime Minister Vukic, but the question is who did it? The authorities need to deal with this issue. President Vukic's defense, immediately to tell you, when we talk about this law and these amendments, is also a struggle for Serbian language and a battle for Cyrillic, because it is thanks to him that we celebrate this day and we have this law on the agenda today. Sasa Jankovic clearly testifies to how the ambassadors, he says both the strategists and his quasi friends, thinks of friends from opposition and quasi friends, advised that Vukic, I quote him now – under the skin, to cooperate with him, so that with their help, the embassy, he would tear him down from the inside. Jankovic testified that they advised him to win over the government and asked him who he could co-operate with in the SNS. Apparently, they've already had someone in mind and prepared. Jankovic says that, in parallel with these advices and questions, they made it clear that the president, then Prime Minister Vukic, could cancel his heart because, according to ambassadors and strategists, and according to Jankovic, something was wrong. Honey. This is a valuable testimony. Now it's clear they've been working on Wolf's head, but they're also working on his head today. This explains, let's remember, the former behavior of Saša Radulovic, who apparently acted this way. He was a minister, let's remember. This explains the behavior of some SNS individuals later. Let me remind you that today there are sophisticated neurotoxins that cause for example. Cardiac arrest, and everything looks like a heart attack. Only by rapid toxicological analysis of the victim, if she survived, can it be found that it is a toxin that is otherwise imagined, so it is also created, quickly disintegrates, disappears, and traces are lost. In the past few years, we've all witnessed a series of world affairs with neurotoxin poisoning. Jankovic then says -- ambassadors, his strategists planned all this and told him, advised him. I'll just remind you of the facts, at the time the U.S. ambassador here was Kyle Scott who did not hide his differences with this authority, the ambassador of Great Britain was Dennis Kif who also did not hide his differences with this authority. The leaders of the anti-Vučić opposition parties were then, at the end of 2016 and 2017, because this is the period attended by Jankovic, Bojan Pajtic, Sutanovac, Radulović, Vuk Jeremic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Bosko Obradović next to Jankovic himself. Now, who were Jankovic's strategists should only say so himself. I hope the authorities call him. I'll just remind you of the facts. At the time, Jankovic's main associates were Marinika Tepic, who was then not separated from Jankovic, Bozo Prelevic, Zoran Ivosevic, Sreto Malinovic, Srdjan Škoro, Goran Markovic, Dusan Teodorovic and Aida Ćorovic. They were the leaders of the Free Citizens Movement. Connect most of these names to Sasa Jankovic's testimony and you will understand. To be clear, I'm not saying all these people were working on President Wolf's head. Whoever did, that should be determined by the competent authorities. Sasa Jankovic gave a clear reason for handling the authorities and thus became a valuable witness. Jankovic says, I will repeat -- ambassadors, strategists and fellow opposition counterparts. Jankovic should tell the authorities which ambassadors, who his strategists have advised him to do so. So the authorities should act, I understand this, because a credible witness said, I said what functions he had, so not only did the ambassadors announce to him that the leader of Serbia would stop the heart, but they asked Jankovic, a future witness, the head of the then strongest opposition party, to tear down the state inside as co-worker of President Vukic. The public needs to know the names of the people who asked Jankovic to do this. And I end up, if we defend President Vukic, we will defend both Cyrillic and Serbian language and freedom. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9228	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9229	As long as the language lives, the people live. Therefore, we must treat the language with great respect and constantly point to the importance of the preservation of language, in order to raise awareness of our own identity, culture and diversity in particular among young people. The minority nations are particularly sensitive about language and letters. The law we are discussing does not endanger national minorities and their already acquired right to use their native language and letter. If there has been any concern to date by adopting amendments to the law we are talking about, there is absolutely no reason to worry, as national minorities will continue to use their right to the mother tongue and to the letter, based on the Law on official use of language and letters. That's what the Honorable Minister said, and that's what I was talking about in my previous discussion. What I want to point out once again, to repeat, is that it must be insisted in the correct language of literature, standard language, so take care of spelling and grammar, not just what we say, what we write and what letter we write. My suggestion would be to maybe read a little bit more, because that's how we enrich our vocabulary, that's how we spread our perspectives, and that's how we keep our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9230	Thank you, colleague. The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9231	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers Mrs. Comic and Gojkovic, when I read the amendments to the SVM and given that we also read the bill and followed the debate and in principle, what I first thought was that a lot of it was meant to be, that maybe it shouldn't even stand on paper, because it simply implies, because we already have the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters and, of course, in the Constitution, in Article 10, that the Cyrillic letter is an official letter in the Republic of Serbia. However, when I carefully read the amendments to the SVM, I come to the conclusion that it should be done essentially. Everyone should promote and represent what they can and must, which is the identity of their own and their own minority in Serbia. I am proud to have grown up in a multinational community and read both "The Mezescaracre" and "Joyate", but a little later "The Hungarian So", but also "Hlas man" and "Russian letter" and "Libertate", but I am also the most proud of what it says in the book of Ginis, which I had as a kid and I had nothing to read – only one people in the world apply the principle of "one voice – one sign", they are Serbs. Of course we're proud of our letter, namely our own language, which is normal, but I don't want to deal with Vukovar or Sarajevo or those areas where Cyrillic is undesirable. Cyrillic is also being suppressed in Serbia, i.e. it is trying to suppress itself. We also saw a statement from the Helsinki Committee and some other Serbian mainly NGOs. What is important is that we first decide with ourselves, there is Mr. Jokic more than right when he said that we have to work on it most, as people and as citizens. I will give you an example, before this law is taken into consideration, when it started to work, and we heard that in 2017, 2013, in the hometown and both present minister and mine, in Novi Sad, City Transport Company, with the support of the city authorities, made a decision that has been applied and applies today – all buses in the city of Novi Sad have a Cyrillic on their display. They didn't have to ask for laws or any regulations or rules, because the Constitution says one thing, the Cyrillic can't be punished anywhere, it can't be disputed, on any basis. Both today and today, New Sad buses carry on their displays a Cyrillic and numerous tourists who primarily because of the "Exit" and other events are coming, there was a question from those who objected against how foreign tourists would manage. They have been doing more than well for years and they lack nothing and come in mass, just as they did in 2013, when this law was passed. What Mr. Jokic has also already mentioned is my appeal and request that this law be strictly applied and implemented, it is very important. It is good that counsel was established and it is good that the Ministry was supervised, and there were already words – many laws are not applied or implemented. We never talked about it openly. But this law is necessary to implement and apply and to control whether it is done. Cyrillic is, I will use a foreign word, and so is the Serbian brand, like fame and many other things, but we promote Cyrillic, we don't force it on anyone, we don't impose it on anyone, we just promote it, primarily in our country and primarily among our people. I also thought it was a default. But, see, it looks like you have to put a letter on paper and be in the shape of this law, which I really think is extremely important, and I think this assembly of parliament will be remembered, that's what my colleague Tvardisic was already saying, right after this law was passed. It is very important of this law, more than just form and content. This is a very important law. I hope that it will contribute to the promotion of our letter, which has the principle of “one voice – one sign, ” which has no letter in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9232	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9233	Thank you. Dear Minister, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would also like to send my sincerest congratulations to all citizens of Serbia, Serbs in the region, Serbian citizens living in Serbia for the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and national flags. One of the most important state objectives should be to work on constantly strengthening the spiritual and cultural unity of the Serbian people. What does that mean exactly? This means that we guard and cultivate our Serbian language and Cyrillic, and that as a state we fight that every Serb and every Serbian child living outside Serbia and outside Republika Srpska can freely and proudly say that he is a Serb, using his Serbian language and writing in his Cyrillic letter, to gather around his Serbian Orthodox Church, to safeguard and cultivate our customs and traditions, to cultivate the memory of the Serb who died, to guard our history. These are, therefore, some of the elements that are key to the permanent strengthening of the spiritual and cultural unity of our people. In a few words, I will say about the Cyrillic relationship in the countries that occurred in the former Yugoslavia. Many facts show that it is especially in Croatia, the Federation of BiH and Montenegro until last August's elections in the part of the Cyrillic persecution, that the Cyrillic is treated as an enemy letter, that the Cyrillic is called an instrument of large Serb politics and evidence of large Serb aggression. In the field of the Federation of BiH, few Serbian children in most schools do not have the opportunity to learn Serbian and Cyrillic. I will give you an example only of Glamoch municipality in which Serbs are relative majority. According to the 2013 census, 43% of Serbs live in Glamoc municipality. Still Serbian children in Glamoc cannot learn in Serbian and Cyrillic but must opt to learn the language of the Croatian people or the language of the Bosniak people. We know well that both Cyrillic and Latin are official letters in BiH and that this is one of the many evidences of violations of the BiH Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement. Unfortunately, we have never heard of former High Representative Valentin Incko warning the Federation of BiH authorities not to violate this provision of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Also, you cannot find a traffic sign in the Federation of BiH without a crossed or beautiful name written on Cyrillic or Ustasha symbol or any Serbian symbol. Isn't that a violation of international conventions and the Dayton Peace Accords? You in Sarajevo now have most of the names written in Arabic, not Cyrillic. We know well that Serbs have made a huge contribution to social, economic, cultural, educational and any other development in Sarajevo. Today we hear stories from Bosniak politicians about a fake myth about multiethnic Sarajevo. The facts show that more than 150,000 Serbs were expelled from Sarajevo, that Sarajevo was a refugee camp for Serbs during the war, that there were more than 120 camps and prisons in Sarajevo where Serbs were tortured and killed, to prevent and prevent families of Serb victims in Sarajevo and throughout the Federation of BiH from marking the death of their loved ones, to place mentions of tables and monuments in honor of the victims of Serbs. As far as Croatia is concerned. In late 2002, Croatia brought the so-called constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, which was one of the preconditions for Croatia to start the process of European integration. This constitutional law and the law on the official use of the language and letters of national minorities have made it clear that in all those municipalities and cities where the participation of national communities is more than one third of the population in official use will be the language and letter of the national community. According to the 2011 census in Croatia, we have 21 municipalities and two towns of Vukovar and Velivsko in Gorski Kotar where the participation of Serbs is more than one third of the population. What is the situation on the ground, if we see that since the adoption of the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, it has been 19 years, and Croatia has also committed itself by the Treaty of Accession of the EU from 2013 to continue to implement the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. In these 23 local self-governments, therefore where the participation of Serbs is more than one third of the Serbian population and Cyrillic is a dead letter on paper. So we have no names of public institutions, state institutions in Cyrillic and Serbian. There are no bilingual tables with street names, squares, settlements, towns and cities where Serbs are entitled to the official use of Serbian language and letters. What does that tell us? What message does the Croatian State send? Well, it sends a clear message to the remaining Serbs in Croatia that the remaining Serbs in Croatia are not welcome and that they should be assimilated, i.e. to become Croatian Orthodox, because we see a campaign that the prostitute forces lead in Croatia that only Orthodox Croatian nationalities can exist in Croatia or if they do not want to move out or a drastic example of the town of Vukovar where the brutally suspended constitutional order of Croatia is. In 2009, the Vukovar City Assembly decided to bring its statutes into line with constitutional law and introduce the official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic. Then why did this make the city's bigger decision? Well, because it was a tactical decision to meet one of the conditions in the European integration process. When Croatia became a full member of the EU, on 1 July 2013, the City Council of Vukovar convened its session and abolished that provision on the official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic in the city of Vukovar. In 2014, the Constitutional Court of Croatia made a shameful and scandalous decision that it, leaving the City Council of Vukovar to decide whether the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and languages in the official use of the language and letters of national minorities can be applied in Vukovar or not. Instead of disbanding the City Council of Vukovar immediately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not respect ordinary law but constitutional law. So, one of the conditions Croatia had in the European integration process. We had a shameful and scandalous demonstration and the rampage of the pro-Statian forces in the fall of 2013, when bilingual tablets were broken in Vukovar and this spread to the entire landscape. What was the decision of the Croatian judiciary? One of the organizers of these anti-civilization, vandal demonstrations and the breaking of bilingual boards, Marijan Zivkovic, was released in 2019 of any responsibility. What message did the Croatian judiciary send? "Lords, you can free, whenever you estimate, to break the bilingual tablets written on the Latin and Cyrillic." Here, we are now in 2021, still in Vukovar Serbs do not have the right to use the Serbian language and Cyrillic officially, and the Serb population in Vukovar is 34%. Imagine now that attitude towards a third of Serbs in Vukovar and look at an example in Serbia. Our Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities says: "If the participation of a national minority in a local self-government is 15% and more, that national minority has the right to use its own language and letter officially". A member of the Croatian national minority in the area of the town of Subotica is 10%, and in official use in Subotica is Croatian. So we have one example of the positive discrimination of a national minority who has 5% less than the percentage defined by our Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. Take a look at Croatia's example towards the Italian national minority. In the area of Istria, the Italian national minority numbers about 7% of the population, and the Italian language is defined as one of the official languages in the county. That is why I believe that one of the important tasks of our country would be, I expect it, especially after the adoption of this important law that we discussed before and today, and today we will adopt it, that in talks with official Zagreb, Sarajevo, Serbian people can freely use the Serbian language and Cyrillic, that officially Sarajevo and official Zagreb respect their constitution, respect their laws, respect international conventions, as it seems, and how the Republic of Serbia does. I believe that as a state, we must talk about it and meet international organisations and be persistent and consistent in this fight, I repeat, that every Serb can speak proudly and freely and without fear of using Serbian and Cyrillic, no matter where he lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9234	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9235	Thank you, Vice President Yevdzic. In the debate on the Law of Principle, I spoke about how important it is that we talk about unity, what we talk about the letter, what we talk about the language, what we are talking about today, and what we have a specific moment that I particularly like, which is that representatives of national minorities sitting with us and our colleagues, except for colleagues from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians who have submitted amendments, very useful, very constructive and the Committee on Culture, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have all spoken in one positive spirit. That seems to me to be the best answer for those we're trying, and we shouldn't, to explain why we've defined ourselves to talk about this law -- because we think it's important to respect each other, but it's important to respect ourselves, especially when there's awareness that you're a resident of a country that lasts for 10 centuries. There are these Serbian words that are very expensive. In fact, June 28th can be translated into all world languages, but Vidovdan can't do one. It's written in Cyrillic and that's the Serbian word. Such Serbian words were once a motive for those who hated us to hate us more, and for those who respected us to respect us even more, because they know that there is a legend behind it about the courage of the Serb army that defended not only Serbia but Europe. During World War I, German Emperor Wilhelm II asked General Augustus von MacKenz to bring him at least one seized Serbian war flag. But the general, to his astonishment, answered that he couldn't, because he doesn't own any. So, out of the 51st flag, as owned by the Serbian army during World War I, none fell into enemy hands. It's a kind of venture and exception in the history of modern warfare. And today, 47, three are supposed to be destroyed by the bearers of the moment they couldn't keep them without falling into the hands of the enemy and the fourth, most important, the flag of the famous Iron Regiment, was laid as a cover on King Petar Karadjordjevic's coffin. That is why today is nice when we are worthy of our ancestors who have been so bravely defending Europe, it is nice when on social networks, I am sure we all use them and that we all saw that today the whole of Serbia is decorated with Serbian flags, but it is even more important to me to have a detail, which is that the flag is winding in Banja Luka, that the flag is winding in Podgorica and that I stay until the end of the local patriots, as much as they are all the same, is the most beautiful one that is pointed out today in Gorazdevac. It's those flag keepers where they're hard to point them out. It is not difficult for us in the Serbian Parliament to talk about the importance, it is difficult in practice to defend what one has as a pure ambition to destroy not because it will gain something by destroying, but because it simply has a clear need to destroy everything that would remind us of how valuable we are as a people. Let me conclude, because these are topics that shouldn't be spoken of for long. We can't remind us of everything that's wrong with us, we can only learn from some earlier mistakes in not making the same mistakes in the future, but we need to know that language and Cyrillic are our vows, and vows are kept, and they are kept until there are living us. That's why, my beautiful Serbia, happy holiday! I truly do, and I believe you will celebrate him for many centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9236	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9237	Thank you. Just to remove the misunderstandings of official use of language and letters. The use of Croatian language is mentioned here. This is not the only language that is officially used in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but it is the topic of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minority and the Framework Convention on the Regional and Minority Languages of the Council of Europe. It is the only basis that we can return to countries in the region or other Member States of the Council of Europe with the requirement that countries in which they are a national minority also enjoy the protection of the National Minority Framework Convention. It would be good, for example, to have Serbia consistently implement the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, the Regional Minority Languages Framework Convention, because it is difficult to explain the case, for example, in the Vrbas municipality, where you have a national minority with no more than 15%, but 18%, and the president of the municipality refuses to introduce the language of that minority into official use as a language to which the Law on National Councils obliges him. But we will not give up the dialogue with the president of the Vrbas municipality, because we do not want in the Report of the Council of Europe, which we are giving, on the official use of language and letter to explain why we are breaking our own law. Why do I mention the Framework Convention? Because it's a tool, an instrument that we address everyone in the region, so for example, we address the Municipality of Glamoch and the canton to which it belongs for two reasons. First, there are SNSD and HDZ authorities. In Glamoc, one has a majority and the other, but we also have a Minister of Lucic who is very keen to co-operate on issues of human and minority rights and humanitarian issues, especially on issues of official use of language and letter and the application of the Framework Convention for the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities of the Council of Europe. When you specify the percentage that is binding on Serbia, for local self-government where there are national minorities above 10%, it is formulated as a legal obligation. No local self-government prevents anyone from entering into the official use of language and letter and national minorities through dialogue with their own citizens and citizens. This is the spirit of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe. Why do I want to remove the misunderstanding? In none of these cases, the law we're making today is neither an instrument nor a tool. We cannot address it, which applies in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but that is why the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities is a powerful tool that we can use in the region, and that we can use it, and that we can use among all members of the Council of Europe, because we believe that all those who have Serbian language as a mother have the right and the education in that language, which they consider to be the Cyrillic of their letter, their native language, have the right to use that language not because we invented it, not because it is better than others, but because it is said in the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. That is why it is good that I return to the law, because this is not all about the law that we are discussing today, but it is good that the government has accepted amendments by MPs who have seen that by intervention on the application of this law to national minorities is a better solution as they have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9238	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9239	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Minister Komic, I, as representative of the parliamentary group in the plenary section, also presented the circumstances why we had to come into a situation to pass this law. I think that's when I tried the historical context, and so did the contemporary one. Where there's a problem, there's a problem. They may repeat some things, but right at the beginning of the day, the adoption of this law on Cyrillic letter and language does not endanger anyone and this is not a battle against the Latin letter. The Latin and Latin letters are as Serbian as they are Croatian. That's what linguists, historians, paleographers know very well, but Cyrillic is a Serbian national letter. There are few countries, we said, that have two languages and letters in use, so in that context, you wouldn't understand that we're banishing the Latin. The amendments are good. I think Dr. Pastor spoke of it remarkablely yesterday. This isn't a minority threat. You have everything in accordance with the law. There's no problem. The problem is each other. Some things may be repeated, but to say that the neglect and disappearance of Serbia's, indeed, disappearance of the Serbian Cyrillic letter leads to the disappearance of us as a people. Every people of Europe will agree with that. The suppression of Cyrillic letters from these spaces takes ten lenses. We also need to see this context where our mistake was in this context of our linguists and our politicians, and that is the essence. First, the Cyrillic began to disappear from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, and now, where it was eight centuries, more than nine centuries, and Montenegro. It's been officially used for eight, nine centuries in Montenegro. So that's what this is about. We just want to legalize a letter in official use, not touching national minorities and their rights. Please don't discuss it at all. It's good to show that fear, as it was yesterday, and I think the government did well to accept the amendments for the sake of additional security. So that's what this is about. We must not give up the Cyrillic letter even in other countries in accordance with the law of those countries. There's a problem. If the Serbs are in Montenegro now 29% and more, although in the 1990s there were significantly more, etc. You all know how many, so I guess the Serbs in Montenegro have the right to use the Cyrillic letter, even though it was in their official... and their own letter of nine centuries and now according to the laws of the Europeans. Well, it is not possible to suppress, ban Cyrillic in either Croatia or Montenegro, or anywhere the Serbian people live in accordance with the law and European law, as we cannot ban Latina in Serbia etc. in accordance with the Constitution and other regulations. So that awareness of the Cyrillic letter gradually weakened, and it was suppressed. Today in those former republics do you know where we have her? Only in the editions of the SPC and possibly on the tombstones and not on all the tombstones. That's the point. It has weakened so much that even the state-run radio-television of Belgrade at the time had an evenly represented relationship between Cyrillic and Latin. It was nowhere in the former republics. We who do paleography know very well. Please show the opposition that someone wants a Latin, so they've led to it. I don't have time to talk about it as a man of profession. It would take me two days to call them, to say directly -- philosophers, you've been doing it for years, politicians who have been for years. I really thank the President of the Republic, because this is a minute to twelve. Everything they haven't done in 60,80 years now has to be fixed by Aleksandar Vukic "guilty Drine". Now, that's the point. Again they, they, their children, and so do their sons today. If I have to, I'll speak names. You won't shut me up, you who try these days, who take revenge on your families. Shame on you! Tudjman couldn't shut me up either. There's no one in The Hague, and neither will you! Is that what you've been up against, poor thing?- I'm sorry. I never thought of that. They know it well from the Democratic Party as I am, however, vice versa. You scum! You're not human, you're scum. Even in culture, and very well. If I have to, I'll call it public at the press conference. It's true they even went inside from other parties inside, so-called. A deep state. There, there was a title in the NIN. We separate eight of them from Alexander Vocic. You will not separate me, without bread I will be, neither I nor my family from the state, because he represents the state. Poor fellows, what you're trying to do, you poor bastards, what you're trying to do, shame on you! You're ashamed of the city when you see me when you pass, only you don't walk. Never, lesbians, freemen, will I obey you, ever. Come here and tell me, get the hell out of here, because facts hurt. I'm sorry, I'm a little tense. When it comes to language and letter, it once again says, this is in official use, I can't get from court an invitation to a Latin letter, even a colleague I went with, come on, we're Serbs, in a Cyrillic letter. He's surprised, that judge. That's the one who let the Cosmic go. Look, I have the courage to tell you. He says, colleague, here, Risticevic was, not in line with the Constitution. They say the Constitution is wrong. That's your judge, is that the judge? That's what you brought to court. It's the kind of directors in culture, it's the kind of thing that museumologists, workers take keys from curators, sell it on the street, and we're supposed to collect. Shame on you, shame on you. Listen to me very carefully. You can't do anything to me, you won't separate me, my spirit of an honest man will haunt you while you're alive and yours. Now let's move on. What it's like for other countries who use their letter. Russia and Bulgaria have not introduced, please, any other equidistant letters or held discussions about it. Bulgaria is an EU member and has not given up on pedals, compared to its letter. Let's see Greece. Greece is still a tourist country, but most of the inscriptions are exclusively in Greek. It is that more recently, bilingual inscriptions appear in Greek and English to allow tourists to communicate better. Is it true or isn't it? You who often travel, constantly to European countries, seven days, eight travel, well, take a look. The Russians, Bulgarians and Greeks make no compromises and introduce no other letter. But we have bowed down in the 1950s and we must correct and now within our own country for official use. What's the President of the Court doing? He's bound to control the judges. The principal of the school is in debt. Directors of cultural institutions, not to rob, and call on individuals. You're being lied to by gentlemen, curators, cultural workers, calling, lying to you. Their incompetence, their impotence, their unhappiness, their covering with individuals, etc. So, in the EU Constitution, it is said in the preamble that the Union aims, in addition to preserving cultural differences and traditions. Of course it should be in Serbia. Who's against it? Well, even national identity, especially respect for cultural, religious and linguistic differences. How far did we go? We came here to have the SPC exorcised after a thousand years, their property. They didn't do it, I'm sorry, it's not done in Croatia, the Catholic Church didn't do it, because Christianity knows very well, well, everyone calls for Christianity. God will make it right for you. Don't do it, for personal interest, for a little power, that's what you do. I know there are individuals, because I watched them, just give them a liver one, excuse the expression, they'll run around the world after that liver. Not care about family, not the nation, not the state. Not for GDP, not for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I need to say some things for real. I spoke in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as it does so, etc., indeed on one... But it's a good thing we brought it in, because we've come into a situation where we're getting official documents in a latin letter. This may be requested by the Croat here, it is not at all disputed under the law, Hungarian, anyone, but it is likely that a Serb as a majority nation, is entitled to a Cyrillic letter. It's our own fault, I agree with what someone said. It's got to be control. What I fear is control, if Martinovic controls me as an MP here, or my party president, or director, where I was, in accordance with the law, certainly, when it comes to directors, rather than chasing people. I've had a situation like this. I've never been caught in my life for a second that I was missing at work. He even tried to lie to a dean, Malten, when my mother died, to drive me out. He couldn't catch me on a bridge in Kosovo Mitrovica, I come at 11:00, 12, puts me on duty, I was downstairs. He was destroying students, he was destroying our children, instead of fighting for them. We've got to get rid of these guys. Worthy, responsible, honest people, honest people. We can't lie to anything. We cannot speak on one side, on the other hand, what the president said, the former government, one in the east, the other in the west, instead of being unique in relation to the process of work and social relations. We need to make a difference, to fight hard here, not to escape from the congregation. Is that poor guy, Janko Veselinovic, muddying the state and Angela Merkel, so he's not embarrassed and he's a university professor. Those words to say, what he thinks they didn't pass on to him, you take the president of the state, you shame him 80,000 family workers live on it, it's easy for him, because he stole the apartment, he stole Milic Badzha in Obrovec, on 9 Kurjakovic Street, and he was returned after our intervention here, that he didn't provide himself with another, and he wasn't a refugee. Well, I'm not saying that, that's what the morning list and Free Dalmatia says on the list. We have to get rid of these people, they're destroying the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they're intruding, they've got a title. Nothing my title has to mean, if I'm not worthy, nothing. Only worthy people can save this country, responsible, honest and law-abiding. Scissor workers, that's a terrible thing to do and call on someone. Excuse the emotion, but let me say that in Montenegro, 1992, the referendum declared Montenegro a common state with Serbia, almost 100%. Is it then that one of the Montenegrin leaders and proponents of the common state was the great Serb Milo Djukanovic, and today the leader of Montenegro and the protagonist of the Montenegro language, letters, nations and religions. Where is it to be a church, to be created overnight? No ruler has ever done that, and if it wasn't for that Broz, here I have the courage to say, I mean, that's my opinion, I'm not saying, with that cocaine that he didn't get caught, it would have been Cetin 15 grand. What, he wouldn't pay for it, and that's the point, and that Europe has to help stop it. He goes to accuse the president of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, shamed him, that he compares him to building the great Serbia, and with Hitler and Serbia Nazi Germany, and is looking for the whole of Europe and the world. So they defile our flags, on this day I say it, the anthem defiles us, mocking him, professors of the university. They and Tito got rid of it, Perovic and Tito got rid of the 70s in this country, in this country, whatever you want at the time. So we don't have anything against anyone, but we really have to call on unity when national vital state interests are at stake, not only national, but also class, which the former communists would say to me, what the hell is it, laborers, there's nothing to do. A great Serb, and he betrays his paper on the Latin, to whom is he an example? Well, in your spare time, write to the office, if you're being a national. Well, I'm glad I'm doing it, but look what I'm doing. Imagine that the president, a formerly joint state in the morning list, accused President Vukic of making Great Serbia and disrupting peace and stability, in the region and that the region is in danger. Imagine those statements. So God is calling on healthy forces in the region and the international community to oppose. Let the New York Times take a look at what it says. These attacks by Djukanovic on Aleksandar Vukic and Serbia are an attempt, respected citizens, to cover up all political failures on lies based on last century's rhetoric, failures, and thus cause a sense of threat, and only he goes to the people to save down there, etc. I am telling him, President Djukanovic, the success of the president of the state is not measured by lies, lies are short legs, lies, and the production of conflicts in your country's own society, as you do, so you hit on the last one, the SPC, you're the first language that's nine centuries. Forbade John Vladimir, and here, we have now found that the first money is Serbian from John Vladimir, 200 years deep. Jump now, attack it! The success of one president of the state, anyone, is measured by the increase in GDP, which is the class of which is both Croatians and Serbs and Hungarians and each other, among other things, the increase in wages and pensions, the construction of highways. I know what hurts you. You, Mr. Gilasu, what you're organizing these days, I know it very well through whom you too, Mr. Jeremiah, so you're in pain of building highways instead of looking forward to it. Well, you've stopped every highway, you've secured the demonstrations, you've even "Belgrade on Water", here's a party based on it, the whole world admires. The president is measured, among other things, by the construction of the factory. How much did you build the factory? Well, I guess that's how it's measured. By building new schools, by building hospitals, covid hospitals, homes of health, clinical centres, by building sewers, by opening new jobs. Well, let's put it on the agenda. Well, that's what a worker in Croatia, Macedonia and Albania is looking for everywhere. When it comes to national affairs, every nation needs to recognise its culture, it is Serbia's example. What they're trying to do, that's what Sekula Drljević was doing. I quoted Dalibor Brozovic, once my professor, as saying about Montenegrins, etc., and never by heart, as you know, I don't speak here. I never speak by heart, I always take a quote, because I don't get out of this assembly and I've been recording every MP since 2012, which he's said. They didn't have the guts to sit here. Borko Stefanovic, 15 minutes and escapes, and lies, through journalists of certain. They accused Serbia of wanting Kosovo and Metohija without Albanians and Montenegro without Montenegrins. Dear citizens, it's not only not truth and nonsense, it's a substitute for thesis. Well, Djukanovic just confessed to the fake state of Kosovo, you see. Well, he denies the existence of Serbs in Montenegro, denies the right to use a Cyrillic letter, the right to language, the membership of the SPC, etc. Compare Serbia with Nazi Germany, and President Vukic with Hitler, is the height of Djukanovic's moral fall and moral misery, the height of his unsettledness. Why? Because Serbia will no longer be his polygon and market for the operation of Montenegro's criminal drug cartel, whose master Djukanovic is. Here, let him sue me. It also says in the New York Times, if you have seen it, and he has even admitted it, if the New York Times truly conveys it. That's why he's not the subject of drugs and the position of the SPC is not his topic, his economy is not his topic. He's the only one, the only subject, respected citizens, Alexander Vukic, and he pays his subordinates here to bring them down. And they've spent over a billion euros on demolition so far. Montenegro can be calm when it comes to Alexander Vukic's policies, everyone knows it very well, but Montenegro has reason to be deeply concerned about Milo Djukanovic's policies. That's the point. Who is it, someone who says he's a Serb in Serbia or says he's a Croat in Serbia? No one should be tortured. I am now going to quote Nikola Tesla, whom many have been invited here today. On June 1st and 2nd, 1892, on the second day of his visit to Belgrade, he told students, quoting: "I, as you can see, came from the United States and, as you can see and hear, remained a Serb, and across the sea, where I do research. It should be the same for you, to raise the glory of Serbia in the world with your knowledge and work. “ A quote has been completed. Who was that bothering? This is what every nation should do, with its work, every national minority, in accordance with, normally, with laws. That's the point. Allow in the end, however, to say one curiosity, and you have seen what we have experienced, that at Osijek University, a Bosniak defends Montenegrin language, the thesis of doctorate, in Osijek, in Croatian, or in Serbian. I quoted Professor Brozovic, one of the biggest linguists in these areas, as he said, why doctors went from Montenegro and today go to Zagreb, yesterday, I have no intention of going again. The fictional Montenegrin nation has been invented by the Montenegrin language, the Montenegrin Orthodox Church for the purpose of inauguration of a new Montenegrin identity. That's the point. I have no right to be determined to speak to him, but as a historian, I have the right to say that nine centuries of Cyrillic has been used in Serbia's Montenegro, and as historian and Montenegrin and Petrovic, etc. that the Serbs were. Well, the two-headed eagle, the one they're holding on the flag, so there's a German from the time of Chernojevic, let them take it. They don't know whose it is. It is Russian, as our former authorities have changed here a two-headed eagle, not a Serbian German, but a German one. And we're gonna change that, thank God we're gonna change that. To every nation. Why would I mind a flag or a coat of arms? Finally, while our President Aleksandar Vukic spends days in peace policy, security policy, not only in Serbia, but also in the region and beyond, the health policy of all our citizens, and in the region, economic stability policy, is actually modernising Serbia. And what we're bringing in the Cyrillic, of course we're going to introduce a national identity. And if we hadn't had Serbian history in the late 19th century, we wouldn't have won a war in World War I. The world's greatest history died in World War I and in World War II, but it also taught other peoples. Who's talking about Jasenovac? The one who never wrote a single sentence. That's terrible stuff. Now they remembered that the director of a museum somewhere was seven years old, what he was doing. The American tells me, your expert is telling me, and he's saying it himself, and here he is on TV every day, one of the TVs. What are we doing? When you ask him - what document, I have no idea. But he can talk. That's the language. I don't have time, I'm a little touched, to talk about Dubrovnik literature. Well, there was a Cyrillic office, in the Middle Ages and Latin and Cyrillic letters. Well, the Kulina Ban Charter is on the Cyrillic letter. I know what the other one will tell me, Bosnian. It's a Serbian Cyrillic letter. We who do paleography know very well, and we don't mind having others do it. When it came to Croatians, they gave up their letters and language in 928 and took Roman, Latin, until 1835 in the Assembly, official acts were. Excuse me, once again, while our president is fighting a battle for the state, for the people, for the economy, here and in the region, until you see what Dragan Gilas is doing, you see what Janko Veselinović is doing yesterday, what Vuk Jeremic says, so you can't buy everything with money, hey, you can't. Excuse me, I really congratulate all citizens of the Republic of Serbia today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9240	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9241	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the people, the honourable minister, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking today about the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters. The reasons for passing one of these laws are numerous. Unfortunately, the Cyrillic is today, I have the impression that in Serbia it is significantly neglected, and I am free to say that these phenomena are somehow our Serbs. A small number of people in the world can boast of using two or more letters in one language. Although Cyrillic is in official use, globalisation and the dominant use of Latina around the world has made this letter more often used, but the care, preservation and use of Cyrillic will certainly only increase the authenticity and unity of a nation, one community. Through the history of Cyrillics is somehow systematically suppressed, and even consciously pushed into another plan with the aim of making Serbian national identity, that our symbols, our history, our language, our letter as little use as possible, to make as little visibility as possible. The other reasons are that, in some Serbian border areas, it is a targeted policy of knowingly dominating Latin letters, all in order to lose Serbian national identity. For centuries, Cyrillic has resisted numerous pressures. My predecessors explained it very nicely. Since the time of the Roman Empire, when the spread of Christianity has rooted out every founding letter except Latin, let's say all the way to Austria where the Serbs and the Serbian people have somehow resisted and preserved their identity, their Orthodox faith. In all these epochs and victims, the Cyrillic survived. Although it is in some periods, let us also remind ourselves of this Croatian Parliament and the so-called Croatian Parliament. Bosnian Parliament and NDH laws have been passed. But it's not like everyone else was always to blame for it. Somehow we have a part in it ourselves. And in the time of the Kingdom of SHS, we accepted a two-bubble out of some regard for the Croats, although the Croats only use their Latin at that time. After World War II and the rule of communism, socialism again had a brutal continuation of Cyrillic neglect and even its own in some form and ban. What is even sadder is the fact that some Serbian officials of that era and many Serbian politicians at that time experienced Cyrillic... Now I can freely say that we still today have certain Serbian politicians who experience Cyrillic as a relic of the past from some rural legacy of old Serbia. Let us not forget that the Serbian people still preserved their Cyrillic letter and their faith, as an essential feature not only of religious but also of national identity. And that is why I believe that the passing of this one law is the necessity and the insatiable need of all of us Serbs. I support the amendments made by representatives of national minorities, as we show another high degree of democracy in our society. This bill clearly defines subjects and institutions that are obliged to use Serbian and Cyrillic letters. We are witnessing that this way of legal regulation was necessary in order for the Cyrillic and Cyrillic letters to be preserved and finally returned to everyday use, I would say, at a large door. Also, this bill defines the establishment of a council on Serbian language whose task is to monitor and analyse the situation in the field of use of Serbian language in public life, implement measures to preserve and protect Cyrillic letters, as a parent letter, and makes recommendations, proposals and expert opinions to improve the situation. I think a body like this will play an essential role in controlling the implementation of this law and making it more realistic to survive a Cyrillic letter. This bill defines the use of Cyrillic in cultural and other manifestations financed by public funds. Finally, for the first time in this country, the events and other events financed by the state will be taken into account in the way and in which the letter will be performed. Personally, I believe that the proposal for this law shows social concern for language and letter, as a segment of Serbian identity, and that this law and comprehensive approach to solving problems in it will show a high degree of pragmaticism. Although an individual has a significant role to play in society, I, as a member of the Health and Family Committee, must stress the outstanding importance of the family, the exceptional importance of home education for our children. I must also point out the importance of the school system, because they represent equally significant moments in efforts to preserve the Serbian letter, our symbols, our history, as unbreakable parts of our national being. I always say that family is, stays and will always be the safest place. I will take this opportunity to congratulate all citizens of the Republic of Serbia on the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag, to celebrate it with pride, to spread the messages of friendship, love, and also the messages of strengthening our national identity. I would say - let our flag be proud, for Serbia is eternal. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9242	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck, Rosalia Ekres, Akoš Ujhelji, Daniel Giovanni, Dr Emese Uri and Nandor Kish. The government and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Dear colleagues, I'm going to delete the list because the amendment promoter wants a word, and as a rule, he has an advantage, so I'm going to ask Dr. Emeshe Uri to apply without you waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9243	Dear Vice-President, honourable Vice-President, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, allow me first to congratulate the celebration of Serbian unity, freedom and national flag, while at the same time confirming that the SVM will support the bill to be voted on. As my colleague, the president of the parliamentary group Dr Balint Pastor, said in submitting amendments to the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters, language use is very important for the functioning of human civilization and without language there is no human civilization and that the language has, in addition to its linguistic, sociological, anthropological, legal, political values, and political aspects. To repeat and confirm, it is indisputable and that language is certainly part of not only expression, but also of the national identity of a nation and we of the SVM think it is natural that every nation has the right, and even the obligation to protect, preserve its language, and also of its own letter, and especially if it is the personality of that language, such as Cyrillic, the personality of the Serbian language. It is very important for us that this bill does not concern the use of language and letters by national minorities precisely because it is not and cannot be the subject of this law. The right of official use, at the same time as the equal use of the language of national minorities regulates the Constitution, as the highest legal act by the Republic of Serbia. Then they regulated the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, and regulated it by the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. The amendments referred to by SVM to the bill were intended to remove some doubt, and this first amendment immediately states in Article 1 of the bill that everything this law regulates does not affect the official use of the language and letters of national minorities, as this stems from the Constitution itself, stems from the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities and arises from the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. Another amendment to our amendment concerns certain and possible tax reliefs that would further regulate tax laws and that this provision would not be discriminatory, we have proposed an amendment by analogy to the position of the 1st member, which speaks of companies using Cyrillic letters being able to rely on tax laws to rely on some possible tax reliefs. On the same principle, we envisioned the possibility that companies, which, by nature of things, cannot use Serbian language and Cyrillic letter in their business, because, for example, they deal with publishing books, magazines in the languages of national minorities, have the same right. The third amendment refers to a logo event, the bill envisions that those manifestations financed from public sources must have a logo in Serbian with a Cyrillic letter. We predicted that in the case of manifestations they aim to preserve, cultivate the identity of the national minority, the logo of these manifestations may also be in the language of the national minorities. So these were our three amendments that were intended to improve this bill, and absolutely not question the basic intention of it. On this occasion, I would like to thank the SVM and the Government and Minister Gojkovic for hearing and accepting our amendments as a sign of partnership and respect for diversity. I would also point out the importance of using a Latin letter in Serbian. Let me repeat what my colleague, Dr Balint Pastor, pointed out that there exists in the world, and several fellow MPs also reiterated that there are only 10 languages in the world that have two letters. One of them is the Serbian language, which is the only one on the territory of Europe, and I think this wealth should be cherished in the same way as just a Cyrillic letter and kept. I would like to point out that particularly this graph is important and very practical and significant in professions such as mine, means in health care, where diagnosis in Latin, abbreviations that are common, accepted generally known, lose their picturesque meaning if they are converted and written in Cyrillic letters and can, most importantly, lead to confusion. It is similar with the IT profession, where because of the international use of abbreviations it is very ungrateful and I find it counterproductive to force the conversion of the same abbreviations into Cyrillic acronyms, i.e. because they are cut into memory just as images and therefore are practically much easier to use if they are constantly in the same form. As a member of the ethnic group of Hungarian nationalities, I believe that, with the possibility, I stress, the equal use of my native speech and written language is not threatened by this law. Even more so, we are richer, because we rule and use our native language, we write on it, but we know, we rule and use the language of the majority, and we use both letters. I wish each of us could be aware that every language we speak, that we know, that we understand, that we read and write, opens up new possibilities and new perspectives. I come from the middle where multilinguality was commonplace, the everyday life of an ordinary man. Every Hungarian, Romanian, Slovak, German, Serb, Macedonian and others spoke each other's languages, hailed each other in the languages of their neighbours, and believe it or not, is not far from Belgrade. It's in the Landland municipality where polyglots were everyday. So it was in every village and today there are them, especially among the elderly. What matters is that each one of them managed to preserve his identity, his own language, his letter, but respect and others, thanks primarily to his work, his honesty, and his pawning. Finally, I only want to confirm once again that the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians will vote in favour of this bill, because after the amendments are adopted, we believe that the law does not reduce the rights of members of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9244	I thank the People's Messenger, Dr. Emeshi Uri. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9245	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, respected Serbian citizens, the letter is an expression of the authenticity of one language, the way that language is addressed, not only to those who listen to it, but to the general community, so it should always be kept in mind the specific relationship between language and letter. Expressing the spirit of a language, the letter in this sense is not just a system of communication, but a specific way of expressing a language, an expression of what that language tells us. In that sense, the Law on the Use of Serbian Language in Public Life and the Protection and Conservation of Cyrillic Letters, respecting earlier legal solutions governing the official use of the letter, has the intensity that at a time when we listen less and less to the language, draw attention to its authentic expression and to the written Cyrillic tradition and its roots. I don't think that anyone, except for the well-intentioned, would be contentious and that we would all agree that it is perfectly natural for the Cyrillic letter to be mandatory for all state authorities or legal entities in which the government's capital is dominant. This also applies to educational institutions at all levels. We've probably all been able to face the neglect of Cyrillic on official documents or official websites of higher education institutions. In this sense, this law will allow for consistent use of Cyrillic which is particularly important in educational institutions, because they have particular importance in the preservation of tradition. Of course, neither this law should interfere with the use of other letters for scientific or research purposes, nor with the right of national minorities to serve in their own letter and to cultivate their own tradition. On the other hand, this law allows the use of Cyrillic to be stimulated when it comes to private organisations and businesses, as well as private media. We are like a legislative home constantly exposed to criticism. Of course, critics are good if they're constructive, if they're well-intentioned, but I've been sitting in this high house for a year and a half, and I haven't heard that kind of criticism. We, in fact, must, because of possible ominous comments, make it clear that this law will not endanger the rights of national minorities, nor to use its letter, nor to cultivate its national identity and tradition. In other words, in its recent history, Serbia has always respected the faith and tradition of other peoples who have been located and lived within its borders. On the other hand, the repression of Serbian tradition and the ban on Cyrillic letters were often an ominous announcement of attempts to suppress Serbian national identity, from the ban on Cyrillic letter in the Austrian Empire, on two occasions, during Mary Teresa and during the time of Franco Joseph, when it was banned from writing anything in schools except Latin. Of course, they gave up very quickly because of the rebellion of the SPC and the Serbian people, then, during the Austrian occupation, during the Great War, when in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, and Serbia, the Cyrillic was banned, as well as the NDH during World War II, when the ban on the use of Cyrillic letters was passed by a special law since 21 April 1941, which was called the Law forbidding Cyrillic and was the introduction to violent baptisms and then to the Serbian people. The struggle to preserve Cyrillic thus warrants the same endurance that is at the root of Serbian survival despite attempts to suppress Serbia's national being. On the other hand, it should be sincere to say that the vitality of a nation assumes the preservation of its national identity. Today, at a time of globalistic integration and demarcation of borders for the purpose of free flow of people, services, capital and goods, the danger of national identity is being given a new routine that requires new types of struggle for its preservation. The text of the law, which is before us today, is a form of such an effort not to lose our national identity in modern world flows, to forget about the richness and beauty of our language in the flood of world languages and the latest means of communication, its special expressive possibilities that have been shared on cells written in a Cyrillic letter. In this sense, this law is noteworthy both for the freedom of entrepreneurship, which is not threatened by it and for the preservation of the letter on which our national literature was created. In a democratic and liberal spirit, this law will in no way force those organisations that are not under direct state funding, although it is in some non-state media to monopolies that have rooted not only in ignoring the Cyrillic but also in contempt of our letter, culture and tradition, and all this despite one of the highest principles of liberal democratic spirit, respect for diversity. This confirms that the fact and the fact that the adoption of this law is fully in line with international conventions, regulations, agreements, and adopted documents of public policies. Yet I have no doubt that individual media owned by the opposition, who cares neither about tradition nor culture, nor about the welfare of this people and after the adoption of this law, will continue to practice ignoring our tradition, our culture, but also the presentation of one distorted image of freedom and equality that rests on the belief that they and no one else should be more free, more equal than others. This manner, if nothing else, is clearly reflected in the negotiations on electoral conditions where under the coat of dare of threat requires privileged status, greater freedom and special starting positions in order for the opposition gentlemen to allow us to go to the elections. They're asking me to figuratively express myself, to run at 100 meters, and to have 90 meters of advantage and to have their opponents politically, in this case we, jump on one leg which is unrealistic. Now they attack from all weapons and representatives, the Europarliamentaries who responded to their call to participate in the dialogue to wonder if they saw what the opposition gentlemen wanted and wanted, and the only thing that suits them is that by some special indication, whether from the EU, whether from the NATO Pact or from any other national organisations directly as substitutes of the state chair, would not, as Shakespeare said in his sonnet -- the stomachs of full fat cocks continue to arch the state's well. Not to be fooled by these electoral conditions that they would be pleased with, that is, there is no privileged status that would provide them with victory in the next election because the people remember well what it was like while they were in power. Also, it should be noted that the main feathers of the opposition are aware that they can't get an absolute voice of the minority or in the building where they live, now they're pushing out at the front of someone who's playing the citizens' trust, not to say fraud, maybe they can get some voice like Mrs. Marinik Tepic, who is still a lady, who is still a member of the weaker sex, I mean physically, who is now thinking that they're going to get a voice so that someone feels sorry for her poor fellows, that people from the authorities are calling for blood spilling on the streets if they give up their choices, that she couldn't possibly survive to have someone left without a father, without a brother, of course accusing now and MPs of our accomplices in all of that, and not that they came here to negotiate on their side. Mrs. Tepic, let's do this, if this authority that has agreed to co-operate with the Europarliamentaries, which has lowered the censorship from five to three percent, if it has offered you drastically better conditions than it has when it has fought to come to power, if it calls for democratic ways of fighting to conquer power, then how will this power be responsible for spilling blood, and you and your co-workers who call for boycott, disobedience, destructive riots and unrest with those who call themselves an intellectual and cultural elite, who say that this authority cannot collapse unless the guns are used, then I ask you one question – do you, Madam and all your inspirers, your conscience and your reason? I don't understand anything. We who point to respect for democracy, point out and call for peace, we are the means to shed blood, and you who call on illegal, unconstitutional and illegal means to conquer power, you want peace? I've heard a lot of things, and I thought at this age, I've heard everything. One more thing, if you're so afraid that someone doesn't lose their brother, sister, mother or father, how did you put it in your recent interviews, how did you accuse this authority of being dictatorial and calling for those devastating riots in front of the Assembly when they were trying to kill our officers by your supporters? Is the life of those who work for our country or the vast number of citizens who give their trust to the SNS and its politics less valuable than the lives you fear for now? You're not afraid, ma'am, for any life. You're only afraid for a chair in the company where you work. The same should be mentioned by a gentleman who has been bloated by the Chuta, who is now ridden as a living fighter for a healthy nature now struggles to win a piece of power. He was first in co-operation and mutual sympathy and with Vuk Jeremic and with Dragan Dilas and others, but he rationally estimated that they cannot cross the censorship because it is simply evident how much our people love and respect them and how much they have entrusted him with their care and now suddenly performs as a soloist apostrophe of themselves as a leader, and to me, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Čuta looks more like that Ustashad Sekula Drljević, who in 1906, to point out, a very large and express Serbian. In fact, he voted to change the name of the Montenegrin school assembly to the Serb assembly, which was a great admirer of the Karadjordjevic dynasty, who after being high for a ministerial post or a function that someone had promised him in informal circles, because of his personal vanity and defeat, became one of the ideologists of the Montenegrin nation, said he was from the red Croats and was one of the greatest haters of all Serbian of course until the appearance of Mr Milo Djukanovic and that of the newer Milo Djukanovic since he moved from time to time in the Matrix. Namely, the former one loved the cross as an atheist in the hand of Amphilohi Radovic, prayed for blessing, was proud of his Serbian history and tradition, and this new one, just like Sekula Drljević, is trying to crush everything Serbian, both language and culture and nation, and finally the church. But there's nothing to it, dear Mr. Djukanovic. The Serb people survived, and the Serbs survived the Tatars and the sultans and Franco Joseph, survived Hitler, and even the NATO pact. We will survive and we will not bow down and what you call the president Hitler, and you call our church bloody and nothing less than in the Croatian media. May it serve you honor if you know that word at all. To go back to Mr. Shut. As I said as Sekula, when he was not allowed to open up the mini hydrocentral himself, what we had the opportunity to see evidence in all of our newspapers, he suddenly became a fighter for rivers and natural resources, organizing various ecological uprisings, protests that could certainly escalate into riots and riots, where they are spoken of, absolutely about anything other than ecology. And that's okay. People change and their attitudes change, but be fair and make a party, go to elections, offer your citizens a program, gentlemen get their trust, if you have anything to offer. Don't do this. It's cheap and insulting the intelligence of our citizens. Let me also say that according to theirs and Mrs. Tepic and Mr. Cuti, their inspirational inspirations, which are depicted in the domestic tycoon lobby and the agent's networks, what I said should be paid particular attention to, if we consider last night's interview with Sasa Jankovic. The special rules of choice would apply to them, and especially to the people because they and those who favor them so-called. The elite, and the rest of us, the vast majority of our people are pathetic, we're sandwichers, Caligul's horses as they call us. The Serbian government, and especially the SNS as its driving spirit, the bill shows that in a turbulent time of struggle for economic development under the conditions of the pandemic, in the midst of major international challenges, cultural identity and cultivation of tradition are not forgotten. Responsibilities and versatility are, after all, the main features of this government and what makes it different from people without roots, identities and cheeks, whose only value is the unsightly robbery of their own people. And in the spirit of the agenda, I will quote the words of St. Nicholas Velimirovic and I will end it. "Not if you know God, Serbian gentlemen, if you are taught, be smart, let us keep the Cyrillic in the past centuries, it has preserved us. “ Glory to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9246	Dear People's MPs, so you don't block the system and how you can organize yourself, I will now call the next three MPs, so they know. So, first the MP Viktor Jevtovic will speak, then the MP of the people, Serb Slav Filipovic, and then prepare the MP Milan Jugovic. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic. Please don't press, don't report. You'll block the system. We'll have an hour's break and we'll vote later.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9247	Honorable minister, respected associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Cyrillic is an inalienable part of Serbian integrity. German ophthalmologist Dr. Werner Weber called the Serbian Cyrillic the first time in the world. He defended the doctoral dissertation in Leipzig in 1937 on the topic "Azbuca World". When he found that the Serbian Cyrillic was a rest for the eyes. She was named after Cyril, one of the Thessaloniki brothers who spread Christianity among the Slovenes. It is believed to be the creator of Cyrillic Klimet Ohridsdki, one of the students of Cyril and Methodius. There are some researchers who claim that her creator is Constantinople, or Emperor Simeon the Great. Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic left Serbia during the Serbian revolution in 1813 in Vienna. That's where he met with Jernea Kopitar, a linguist, who was a birthday boy. Kopitar and Sava Mrkalj helped Vuk reform the Serbian language and its spelling. The wolf carried out his Cyrillic reform in the publication of the Serbian dictionary in 1818. The Serbian language reform and standardisation of the Serbian Cyrillic officially and recognised in 1868, four years after his death. When they hit on Serbian identity, they banned our letter. In the Second World War in the independent state of Croatia, Cyrillic was banned by one of the first laws to be passed by the Ustasha regime in Zagreb on 21 April 1941. A legal provision on the ban on Cyrillic, signed by Ante Pavelic, has been published. They didn't get any better off the symbols of our identity. Today, according to the statements and the political programme Marinika Tepic and her boss Dragan Djilas, we are all collectively characterized as genocide, by those villains, whose mockery of the Serbian anthem and flag, as well as the church does not differ much from the former decree imposed to undermine every right to the existence of the Serbian people and its identity. This Cyrillic law says we don't agree to it. We show consistency and responsibility to our country, our tradition, church, heroic ancestors and future generations. It is a policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, where Serbia comes first. The passing of the law is motivated primarily by the need to preserve the Cyrillic letter. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to establish an additional measure aimed at fostering Serbian language, and hence traditional values and to speed up the wider use of Cyrillic in public life. In view of the historical, cultural, identity significance of our letter, the measures envisioning preservation and protection of Cyrillic letters have a dual character. First they're binding. According to the proposed solutions, where all entities operating or performing operations with the majority participation of public capital would be obliged to use a Cyrillic letter. Although this law already provides, in the official use of language and letter for state, province and local authorities, public enterprises, public services, we seek to respect these powers and to implement them with pride throughout the public sector. There is also a set of measures of stimulating nature, aimed at the private sector above all, on public information funds, for the reasons of their importance for public life. A significant measure is also the establishment of a special advice from the government on Serbian language, which will analyse from a professional point of view the situation in the area of the use of Cyrillic letter as a mother letter of Serbian language. It is a patriotic and consistent sovereign policy conducted by the Republic of Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic, where in the coming generations we leave the preservation of tradition and the vow not to forget history, and the fact is that if we do not respect, we do not know and appreciate our history, we cannot concentrate, plan and work on our future. Teached and not so long ago by the past and the devastating policy of the yellow tycoon company, led by Dragan Djilas, Marinik Tepic, Aleksic, Jeremic and other failed politicians, whose names are permanently bearing the brand of thieves, hohstapplers and frauds who brought Serbia to the brink of destruction, we are determined to remember everything. Serbia and the people were their last holes in playing, while their personal interests were affirmed in robbing people's money that had irrevocably pumped into their private accounts across Mauritius, Switzerland and various exotic destinations, were scrupulously enjoying reckless waste and were great masters in it. The dignity of the people could only be trampled. Now that Serbia is a leader in economy, foreign investment, hundreds of new factories and raised heads sovereign and strong, thanks to the unconstitutional struggle of Alexander Vukic, who is lionishly dealing with all the challenges and the bestial attacks, we prove that we have the strength to raise both national pride and restore identity, strengthen the past's damaged dignity, resurrect our symbols. It's Alexander Vukic's policy legislation. It leaves it to the Serbs, raising Serbia from the ashes of the former regime, leaving behind an indelible trail of the largest leader in Serbia's recent history, a man for whom Serbia and the people are sacred. We know what bothers many. Some organizations appear, led and paid by those who want to see Serbia again humiliated and on their knees, under the pretext of protecting the environment, raise stupidity to a level of nonsense, claim that the vaccine that saves the world is only a lie in the hands of the regime, and themselves lie that they are, for God's sake, the saviors of Serbia. I just don't know what? From new factories, hospitals, higher salaries and pensions, standards of decent men? They still convince us that everything that has been done has to be shut down and destroyed, while the people, according to their idea project, would eat grass with green surfaces that are supposed to protect, and actually care about the green color of the dollar, which is nothing but nothing in their accounts. What projects are they doing for exactly? Those who are re-paid with national dignity? That's what they're offering Serbia. Now, they won't be able to do it, they're just desert dreams, because Serbia led by Alexander Vukic, always with strong support from the people, will make decisions that are best for the state and for all its citizens. They'll never decide here any more foreign embassies or criminal organizations, tycoon mercenaries. Our direction will be the sole decision of the people. And the people are the only true judges, and the people see all things; and the word of the people for Alexander the Wolf and the SNS is sacred. And that people said -- we want to proudly tell the world who we are and what we belong to. Our answer to that is - we will ensure that your voice is heard well, that everyone understands it and respects it, that they know that he speaks in his Serbian language, that it is written in his Cyrillic letter, that his, our, our, the Serbian trio, from his force, is heard and that everyone understands it. We managed to fight it. Today is proof. Serbian people, have a happy holiday and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9248	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9249	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, are happy for you today's holiday, which is the second year in a row we celebrate and mark in the Republic of Serbia, and that is what is good, but it is a shame that only the second year in a row. We should have celebrated it centuries ago, that for centuries, every year, on a certain day we remembered both our symbols and our heroes who fought for freedom and those moments that when we were unique, when we were united, we could have done what many thought was impossible for the Serbian people. Often before we established this holiday, before it began to mark, I met young people in Serbia who wore symbols of some other countries on various clothes. If I saw someone wearing the symbols of their own state, Serbia or the Kingdom of Serbia from that glorious time of Serbian heroism of the First and Second World War, such a man would be ridiculed in the time after 2000. They looked at him like, "I'll be forgiven by my viewers, by my citizens, by my colleagues, by looking at him as a fool, as some lunatic, as someone who needs a depraved mockery." It was part of this unfortunate policy that has been led in this country since 2000, that anyone who is nationally aware, that anyone who loves his country, who loves his nation, loves his symbols, his history, to make him an idiot, to make him a villain, a criminal, and I don't know what. So at the cost of spitting in your own history, by your own symbols, you say, "That's a Chetnik, look at him, dirty, fat, disgusting." That's how their portals carry it today, and we can see that it has been their policy since 2000. Today, none truly congratulates the citizens of Serbia. None of them said why this holiday is important today. None of them thought of a hero from the Thessaloniki Front. None of them remembered those martyrs and victims from the Albanian goalie, when hundreds of thousands of people, our people and soldiers lost their lives crossing the terrible mountains of Albania, where they sought a way out and an indication of how to one day return to their homeland and liberate a enslaved country. Some of these heroes were ashamed, both of the symbols and of our national flags and anthem and all that was Serbian. This country finally got a statesman like Aleksandar Vukic, and from that moment in Serbia is going a complete turn when it comes to our national history, to our symbols, to our tradition, to Serbian heroes, to those people who left their bones looking for nothing and giving everything for their country. They didn't ask for anything. They didn't ask me what my salary is, how much my living room is, whether I get help, whether I get this or that food, whether I have warm boots or not, whether I have a winter suit or not, whether I have two or three uniforms, whether I have a gun or not? They fought for what they had because they knew they were defending what was most sacred to them and what their ancestors had left them. Many generations after them were unjust to those heroes. They didn't pay enough attention to their children, not to our language, not to our letter, not to our Cyrillic, not to our symbols, not to our history. It's all kind of in the communist 1945s, so until the late '90s, I can say freely, pushed aside. Don't remember Jasenovac, don't remember the Thessaloniki Front, don't remember those brave pilots who took off in 1941 and defended Belgrade from Nazi bombing, even though they knew it would be hard to get back to their homes alive, because the German air force was far stronger than our air force was back then. All those heroes we forgot, pushed aside, and celebrated some others who destroyed Serbia and Serbia 50, 60 years ago. Then their successors, of course, in 2000 well-tagged paths from 1945 on this project of destroying Serbia in every sense and selling Serbia and tearing it apart, and then the process of destroying Serbia finally stopped in 2012 and Serbia is moving to change for the better. Today I brought here, many came here, made in the National Assembly a different circus, I brought our flag, which we all need to be proud of. I'm sure Gilas isn't proud of her, but she's ashamed of her. He puts a flag probably containing some bills, a flag containing pictures of our factories, cities, businesses, citizens crying, because they don't have their child's lunch to give. These are pictures he would like to see on the flag of Serbia. It's a flag Serbia would have if Dragan Gilas came back to power in this country. I call upon you that those who have not yet acquired such flags in their homes, Serbian citizens, buy, sew such a flag, put on your windows, balconys, houses, courtyards, where you have, be proud of your symbols, because if you are ashamed of your symbols, we will hardly have a brighter future here and there. The people can't just feed on the economy, they need history and tradition. In that sense, all what the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic is doing today is encouraging citizens to guard their history, their tradition, to be proud of it, to remember what is forgotten. So again today, we will all be in the Sava Square, together, united, for a free, successful Serbia. I brought you one more thing that I have to show you, which applies to the bravest among the bravest. It's a book called "The Knights of Karadjordje's Stars with Swords". Many, over a million and 400,000 of our people have lost, and I can see that it's funny to some colleagues, so if they find it funny to go to the buffet for coffee. A million and 400,000 people lost their lives in World War I and one who's funny I have nothing to talk to. I don't think that's funny, because that's when the whole of Serbia cried. When every hero returns home, some without a hand, no leg, no eye, and many of them remain on various battles of the First World War, we today should remember them with pride. Many of us have our ancestors who are in this book and texts written about them here, written by their commanders. It wasn't written by the Communist party, nor by any party before World War II, by politicians, by heroes about heroes, by those who didn't come back and those who came back. We, again, say for the end, if we want to be successful and strong, then we should remember how we were when we were most famous in our past, how we were when we were most successful. We wrote with Cyrillic, we were proud of our trio, we were proud of our coat of arms, our flag, our heroes, our kings, our emperors, our Hades, our princes, and all those who made this country as great and famous as it was, and what Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is creating for the future today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9250	Thank you. The word is Dunja Simonović Bratić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9251	Thank you. As far as our amendments are concerned, i.e. The amendments the government has accepted, I would not talk too much about them here, since they have been accepted, but I would like to refer to these topics, in fact, to the official use of our language, i.e. in our most important institutions. In a debate in principle on Monday, I set an example of what is going on in the Office of the High Court of Justice in Belgrade, the war prosecutor's office, and an example of the relationship between our judges and our judicial associates to our heroes. In particular, in the matter of providing international legal assistance by handing over a solution to the conduct of an investigation of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb against our generals and pilots on suspicion that they had committed the bombing of the Banski dvor in Zagreb on 7.10.1991, in order to kill Franjo Tudjman, commander of the rebel forces, and their hearing in Belgrade. International legal aid was also provided in the light of the delivery of a solution to the conduct of the investigation and when they read the hearing on the allegations of the solution. They were never given this, they never read it because they refused, since it was not in their language, in the Cyrillic letter, but in the new Croatian, and the judge in question heard them because he convinced them what it said. So our military pilots defend themselves against such an accusation, thus defending against such accusations and the Republic of Serbia, and that they do not, in essence, have a solution to the investigation because it is not translated into their letter, Cyrillic, into Serbian from the new Croatian. At present, there is also a big hand in the Croatian Parliament on us and the president of Serbia because of the emphasis on our flag. In this whole context, we really need this law to finally make one distance from the past time, but given how they treat us, we must primarily respect ourselves in our institutions. So we can't allow judges in the Supreme Court in Belgrade and that tomorrow such judge interns who are currently doing so are rewarding this sacred home by choosing to call judges. So there must really be one responsibility and it refers to the official use of our language. I have to rely on what I said on Monday in the context of the establishment of a Lexiographic Institute of Serbia. So that's not a new story. Dear Professor Ljusic and Honorable Lawman Balinovac can say much more about this, since there was a great initiative in the "Official Messenger" that the Lexiographic Institute of Serbia was founded, though, on the heart, to be fair, we must say that this initiative existed, but from previous leadership in "The Official Messenger", but in 2013 and 2014, we were not as economically strong as we are now, thanks to these extraordinary results of our government and our President. Therefore, now may be the right time for us to, if we really want to save our language and return that kind of self-respect, then we must also send it institutionally, and the lexiographic institution of Serbia would be the right address for such a thing, since every lexicon would be respected maximum, that these are all possible topics that our intellectuals can provide and that we have one step with time, and not to say that in the Republic of Croatia there is a Lexicographic Institute "Miroslav Krleža". We should remember our first lexicographer, the famous Academyman Stanoi Stanojevic. So these are the people who before all of them have done these things here and done and done, to our pride. And otherwise, the title of the Lexicographic Institute in Zagreb "Miroslav Krleža" deserved Miroslav Krleža. He was coming here, he was a great idol to our intellectuals, and our intellectuals were giving him parts that they were letting into their encyclopedia. Otherwise, just like historical data, Franjo Tudjman worked at the Lexicographic Institute. Therefore, my appeal from here again is to consider and to have our leadership consider the establishment of a single institution that would be truly to the pride of all of us and our intellectuals who would find their chance and young researchers to contribute to our culture and history and to preserve everything we are. So much for that. I hope that we will all vote for this law and I really look forward to having this strong symbolism at the same time that in Republika Srpska, in Banja Luka, at the same time to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9252	Thank you. The word has Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9253	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers Mrs Gojkovic and Mrs Comic, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens, at the very beginning, I would like to join the other colleagues and congratulate today's holiday on all our countrymen, no matter where they live. Today, as we have heard from most or almost all colleagues, there is one very important law. However, I would go one step further and say – certainly the most important law discussed and likely discussed and adopted by the current assembly council, therefore, the Law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter. As someone who comes from Loznica, it is my special pleasure that the debate on this bill began the day before yesterday, on the day of the opening of 88 in Loznica. Vuk's Assembly, our oldest and most important cultural event dedicated to the reformer of Serbian language, dedicated to Serbian literacy father Vuk Karadzic. The language and the letter are certainly the basis of every nation's national identity. We live today in the era of globalisation, in the era of universal values imposed on the global level, in an era when we quite often have cases of stealing cultural treasures, cultural heritage. Our country, our government in the previous period, is indeed making a great effort to also work to preserve our national identity, to cultivate our immaterial cultural heritage and our tradition. We have heard on several occasions that this legislative proposal, i.e., since the law, has several very positive things, i.e. it is designed to operate in two directions, two directions. First, it predicts expanding the circle of entities that are obliged to use a Cyrillic letter in their work, such as state, province, local authorities, public enterprises, but now it is the paper that will be obliged to use a Cyrillic letter as well as entities with a majority participation in public capital. What is also important, i.e. the second course of action of this law, is that it foresees measures of stimulating nature that are directed towards the private sector, i.e., primarily through means of public information, because of their importance, through administrative and tax relief, above all. Unfortunately, there are always some who, for reasons I would not enter, dispute, criticise, all the measures, all the projects aimed at protecting Serbia's national identity and preserving national interests. I will give just one example, two or three days ago, the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights called on MPs not to adopt the existing bill, estimating it as a discriminatory and with a comment that I will quote – so that the Cyrillic has become a factor in strong nationalist mobilization and a means of forcing and scaring citizens. I don't just know who that Cyrillic can bother, who can be a threat, who can be intimidated. Ladies and gentlemen, the national identity of any nation in the region has not been compromised as is the case with the Serb people, so I have not heard from the Helsinki Committee that it calls for the basic fundamental rights of the Serb people in those countries of the region, or even some constitutional and law-guaranteed Serb rights in those countries. In his discussion, Lint illustrated the example of Croatia, where in the 23rd local self-government of Serbs, the Constitution guaranteed the right to its language and to its letter. The most extreme case is the mention of Vukovar, where Serbs still cannot today, so I repeat, by the Constitution guaranteed the rights of the Republic of Croatia, to realize, at one point only when bilingual tables were placed, they were literally broken at the same time. I also didn't hear that the Helsinki Committee condemns, criticises, an attempt to steal Serbian cultural heritage from official Croatia, in the case of one of the world's greatest minds, Nikola Tesla, whom they are trying to adopt, relocate as her own and wanting to say, in some way, try to honor the impression of his character on his money, and if it is generally known that Nikola Tesla has pleaded as an American citizen of Serbian origin. I'll just remind you that the Croats have made it several times through the past, honored Nikola Tesla for everything he has owed all mankind. For the first time in World War II, when they're still for his life in the so-called World War II. NDH killed 91 cousins of Nikola Tesla, 14 of them in Jasenovac. The second time, they honored him in the last war by burning his home in Smilyan. For the third time, Nikola Tesla was honored also in the last war by the destruction of his monument in Gospić. Here, for the fourth time today, they're trying to honor Nikola Tesla by putting his character on 10, 20 and 50 cents. So, not 10, 20 50 euros, but 10, 20 and 50 cents. Also, something I must point out is that the Serbian people, their identity, and I am free to say survival today is very endangered in Montenegro, a result of the decades-old Serbian policy of current Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic. In a desire to destroy everything that is Serbian, everything that has a Serbian omen in Montenegro, Milo Djukanovic has hit everything that is the foundation of the spiritual being of a nation, language, letter, religion, or church. Instead, as it would be the 21st century to allow 30% of its citizens to enjoy elementary human rights, including freedom of religion in previous years, to send banners to destroy monasteries and monastery facilities. Today, it continues with such a policy, wanting to create a party church of DPS in Montenegro. Further through Croatian media, he leads a monstrous, eyeless campaign, hence a campaign of faceless lies directed towards the Serbian president he compares with Hitler and directed towards the SPC he compares, which he calls a clero-fascist organisation. But Djukanovic is wrong if he thinks that in this way, with such accusations, lies, he will force Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic to give up fighting for the Serb people in Montenegro, he has the right to his nationality to freedom of religion. Serbia is no longer the same country from ten years ago when it was both economically and in any other sense ruined and devastated. Serbia today is the economic leader of the region, strong enough to offer co-operation to all countries through various visions and initiatives. Strong enough to help his people in the region to preserve their identity. In the end, I can say that I am convinced that our country, headed by President Vukic, will continue to develop its country in the future. Continue to build bridges with their countrymen as well as with other peoples and countries in the region, that they will continue to support their countrymen to persist in preserving their national identity. I am deeply convinced that we will succeed. In the end, once again a happy holiday for all Serbs wherever they live. Long live Republika Srpska! Long live the Republic of Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9254	Thank you. The word has Bojan Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9255	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, dear Minister Gojkovic, with an associate, respected fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades. Serbia is a country that has always respected the rights of all national minorities, and there is no reason for it to remain so now and in the future. I come from Temerin municipality, where the full-time Serbian and Hungarian people live together for a century and I have spent my current working life in cultural and information institutions, which have performed their work bilingually, in Serbian and Hungarian languages. We, in Temerin municipality, otherwise, as in all of Serbia, have always understood more language and multiculturalism, as our wealth, and even various attempts by irresponsible individuals, over the past two, three decades, which have caused or politically abused various incidents, have failed to seriously disrupt and rock. Because of all this, as important as it is for all of us to pass one such law, which protects the national and cultural identity of the Serbian people, it may be, even more importantly, that, in no way, it is not a single acquired right of national minorities, living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but that, even moreover, improves them. I must conclude that more than embarrassingly, the action of the public, which welcomed the proposal of this law, the hickeys of certain tycoon media, individuals and NGOs, which disturbs everything that is related to the preservation of the national identity of the Serbian people, to the preservation of the Serbian language and letters. The same ones whose success is more than painful, and the stamping of the Serb people, as a savage tribe of criminals and criminals, is a safe source of good profit and more than a comfortable life. How low a man must fall and speak of his people, his culture, faith and national identity, of all the detestable things that these random Serbs say. How low a man must fall and be ashamed of his roots, his culture and his traditions. That's why these last attacks on the SPC and its clergy are not surprising, as are the calls for the formation of a phantom duchy nation. What we need to be aware of is the fact that none of this is an accident. Not one of the blows that the SPC has suffered in recent years, both in the KIM space and in the territory of Montenegro and other countries in the region. It is not a random attempt to take over the cultural heritage of the Serb people in the area of KIM, it is not a random attempt to tear up the Serb people in Vojvodina, because someone who managed to raise Serbia, who was on his knees, appeared because someone who had raised Serbia, who was humble and obedient, because someone who had made Serbia a politically economic, economical, but not to forget both militaryly strong and stable state. Someone who has politically united the Serbian people, on both sides of the Drina River, someone who has politically united the Serbs in KIM, someone who has politically connected the entire Serbian diaspora with its queen. Someone, as we at PS like to say, is unstoppingly creating a Serbian world. This someone, we all know is Alexander Vukic, president of Serbia and president of all Serbs. A man and a statesman who brought back the Serbian state and the Serbian people to the place where we belong to our historical merits. In recent years and decades, we have witnessed a large number of crimes committed by members of the Serb people, both by members of various terrorist organisations and paramilitary during the war conflicts, in the space of the SFRY, and by the NATO Alliance, we have witnessed a ban on the use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters in the area of the former Yugoslav republics, and if they had been one of the constituent peoples. We witnessed pounding boards with Cyrillic inscriptions, burning of Serbian monasteries and churches and overindulgence of Serbian cemetery. In addition, individuals are trying to convince us that we have nothing to protect our language, our letter, our faith, our culture, our identity, by accusing us that this defense is aggressive, I guess we can humbly kneel to them again, like 10, 15 or 20 years ago. No matter how hard we try, they cannot challenge our right to protect our language and our letter, as they cannot challenge our right to protect our culture and identity, as they cannot challenge our right to work on the establishment of the Serbian world. They cannot and have no right to challenge us to connect all Serbs, a unique political people, who feel the same way about the most important national issues. They cannot and do not have the right to challenge and ban us from thinking about each other, whenever we suffer from a common wound or from a shared success and cannot and do not have the right to challenge and ban us from giving such a national unique response to political and physical violence against Serbs outside Serbia, wherever and whenever it happens. They do not, because the Serbian world is beginning not to repeat the Jasenovic genocide and the formation of great Albania does not go without resistance, it turns out that when Serbs in Republika Srpska are forced under the threat of slavery to accept that they are a genocidal people and there are who to gather and encourage them, to be complex, unique and persistent. That is why they are troubled by the idea of a Serbian world that can only be guaranteed that every Serb will know wherever he lives that the state of Serbia cares for him and will always take care of him. It bothers them, because that way we will be able to respond to every danger and suffering, a national unity that will be guaranteed both political and any other indivisibility, as well as unbreakableness. It bothers them, because that way we will be able to protect our language and our Cyrillic letter and our culture, our faith and our sanctity and cultural heritage wherever they are. Thanks to Aleksandar Vukic, whom most of the Serbian people for a reason see not only the president of Serbia, but also the president of all Serbs, Serbs slowly but surely become a complex and united political people. The idea is politically matured and therefore the process of unification and has begun, and it will never be able to stop or prevent it again, because the process is unstoppable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9256	Thank you, Mr. Bagby. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9257	Thank you, Dr. President. An eagle. Dear Minister Gojkovic, I, as well as colleagues who spoke before me about our Cyrillic, will give our Serbian support to this law because it is very important for all of us, that it is respected, appreciated and respected, and in this way we do not take anything away from anyone, but we are giving opportunity and on the other hand we must have the utmost respect for our Cyrillic and our own language. I can remind myself of certain things that are empirical, since there is a Cyrillic letter, it has existed since the 12th century, in 1186, "Miroslav's Gospel", a manuscript, the most significant monument. It's something that stands and exists and is seen and known. Every time I talk, I say I come from Srlig, we have a Srlig Gospel, which is from the 13th century, more specifically from 1279, that's when it's written. These are all the things that matter to all of us, to our Cyrillic, to our letter, to our Serbian language. At the same time, Madam Vice President Gojkovic, I would like to tell you just a few things about the things that are happening with us in Serbia and the important thing is that we respect our Cyrillic. Otherwise, we had the book "Bednje", which is published four times a year, which has been published since 2002, and this is the 68th time to be published, and it is a magazine for literature, art and cultural heritage. The big thing is that we're guarding our tradition, it's written in Cyrillic, and one thing is important to me, because by these years, we've always had the help of the competent ministry, and this year we haven't had that help, we've asked for 150,000 dinars, for publishing that magazine, and I expect it to be next year to ensure it, because with respect for that magazine, we have the opportunity for all those things that are worth showing and seeing, and that's for all of us who live in Srlig, and there are the key people from Nis and Književec, from all over the southeast of Serbia, and they're all the key, and it's a very read magazine, which is very important to us, who live there. My dear friends, dear Doctor Orlic, the citizens of Serbia, I would once again congratulate the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag. Long live Serbia and the best of luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9258	Thank you. The word is Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9259	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, respected Deputy Prime Minister, respected fellows, respected Serbian citizens, at the beginning of congratulations to all, the celebration of unity, the holiday of freedom, the holiday of the flag, but the holiday of unity of all Serbs and all those living in Serbia and the freedoms of all those living outside Serbia, and leading to the origin of Serbia to know that they have their own holiday, to have their own country and to have unity in that country of all peoples and all those living there, to have their freedom won, both for the state of Serbia and for all those who came from Serbia, but also to have their own flag, a flag that stands for centuries and which is a symbol of unity, freedom and the state of Serbia. Like when someone is born in Serbia or anywhere in the world, the identity he receives by his birth is the name and last name, the name of one of the parents, the place of birth and nationality. Nationality is something that we get by birth and it's something that follows us throughout our lives, but the state of Serbia except for the traits it has, of course, which it will always have, and that is the coat of arms, the flag, it certainly has its Cyrillic, or its own language. Over the centuries, we have proved to have had to protect our heritage, our cultural heritage, our history, our historical facts. Cyrillic is certainly a historical heritage, a historical fact, and something that protected us years ago, something that exists in the present, and in order to exist in the future, we have this law. I would say that there are no nicer Serbian words, namely the real Serbian words "bolded" if we want to strengthen something, and we want to strengthen or modernly say "bold" and that's this law. Earlier, the Constitution has also delegated, established and guaranteed Cyrillic, but this law seeks to strengthen this knowledge that Serbia has its letter, its Cyrillic. Who is troubled by strong Serbia, who is bothered by the strong president is clear to all. It's just those who have been through the centuries, and they're doing it today that they're banning Cyrillic. If we don't know who's not thinking well, we'll just watch, enough to look at who's bothering the Cyrillic, who's having trouble with Alexander Vukic, who's in the way of a strong Serbia, we'll know right away what he's thinking, he doesn't have to talk. "Write as you say, read as written," Vuk Karadzic wrote and recorded. As much as he fought and how many Cyrillics fought all these years, in fact centuries before us, it seems to me that it's not explained enough, and it's not clear enough to people, but in front of us, in front of this Ministry, this Assembly and all those who deal with culture and education to return the Cyrillic to the place where it should be. Every commendation, as is important in any organization, family or in life who keeps the main word, is so important who keeps the main word in the ministry, and in this case is Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic. As much as she has done in a year, with respect and no desire to offend anyone, I think she has visited more objects, visited more things she has done and launched than two ministers in the previous two mandates. It's a simple fact. As it is very important who is the Deputy Prime Minister and who is the minister in a particular ministry depends, among other things, on how the ministry will work, it is also very important who is president of Serbia's state. We all know who the president of Serbia's state is both in Serbia and in the environment, and in Europe, but also in the world. How much Alexander Vukic did for this Serbia, he can't argue with anyone at all. Meric is certainly history, but he can't argue in the present, so if we go out and go to any side of the world from this Belgrade, he just did the highways he did, that he didn't do anything else as president, so he left a big lead. If we look at health care, clinical centres and hospitals that have been built over the past few years have contributed more to the development of health than decades ago, in education, in culture, in infrastructure, but most importantly in strengthening Serbia's state, we were at the point of destruction. No one saw Serbia, not in Europe, nor in the world as a serious state, but as a country only asking questions about when the collapse will take place, when it will fail and when it will go bankrupt. One such Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, has returned to the place where it should be and that Serbia is at the moment the leader of this part of Europe and that in the plans until 2025, so many things are planned that simply when it is finished, the position of Serbia will be much higher than it is now, and I repeat, on this level only thanks to Alexander Vukic. Here's what Vuk Karadzic said "Write as you say, read as it's written" in Vucic Serbia -- do what you promised, do everything for the state of Serbia and for every citizen in Serbia. This is what Aleksandar Vucic, the very ones who attack him and his family, simply amazing on children, let it serve them honor, but also in times when it is really difficult for him and every normal person understands the situation when someone threatens children, but also in those moments in the first place, Alexander Vukic is exactly the state of Serbia and citizens in this beautiful Serbia. Serbia's wealth is precisely in diversity, and no one can take that wealth away from us, and with the respect of both Montenegrins, Croats, Bulgarians, Hungarians, Slovaks and simply not skip someone, but with the respect of the people we seek and ask them to understand that we Serbs have the right to support our Cyrillic. The Cyrillic as a language of the Serbian state has absolute support for all those who think well in this Serbia. And again, those who challenge Cyrillic, know that they don't mean well to us. Everyone knows that this law, of course, is not a law that imposes anything on anyone, is exactly a law that wants to protect what is ours, but no law, so neither can this law be carried out in quality and can it be as well written and well presented as it will be quality and what we will achieve with this law depends solely on the people, on the citizens of Serbia. Well, the citizens of Serbia, in voting day, and this is for a very short time the majority of Serbia, Serbia that supported Alexander Vukic, the majority of the assembly that supports Alexander Vukic, will vote this law, and the Serbs in our beautiful Serbia in this part of Europe and the world know that they have their own state, that they have their own flag, that they have their own anthem, that they have their own back, that they have their own language, which is Cyrillic and that they have their own president, the president of all Serbs, Alexander Vukic. In that name, lived Serbia, lived Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9260	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9261	I was surprised that I got the word, that there were no more registered MPs to speak. I guess he's got it after me, huh? (President: Yes. Then let me just answer, because you've praised me so much. Today, it is not common in Serbia to praise someone, and then I get confused, so I'm a little uncomfortable. I want to say that my work is actually a teamwork of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You are right, this kind of culture budget would not have been increased to this extent for the first time, to go over 1%, which is a European criterion, if it hadn't been for the understanding of the president of the state, who has established the policies and working together with the Prime Minister and with the whole team of policies of the government of Serbia in this term. Surely one of the priorities, which is very visible, which everyone sees is special attention to the segment of culture and information, especially on the issues of the protection of the cultural heritage of our people and the state, which I have talked about before. So far, 350 million dinars have never been allocated for projects to co-finance projects under the "Towns in Focus" contest. Indeed, almost all the cities that have applied for serious infrastructure projects, that money has also been received and expected to be spent. I expect results, so I can have something to visit next year when those facilities are finished. These are mainly the construction of homes of culture or the reconstruction of homes of culture. What is interesting, and how many dozens of years have not been invested in cultural homes across Serbia? Everybody's looking for money for roofs. It seems better to call "Towns in Focus" next year "tops in Focus". Why the roofs? Well, obviously it's in a bad state, that they're sneezing and that no one has been paying attention to that essential need for decades, which is that you have a space where different and cultural content will be maintained. This is mainly cultural centres across Serbia and you will see how much the situation in Serbia will be improved in a short time on this issue, which means decentralisation of culture. There's been a lot of talk about it before. Everyone would go, he says, to advocate decentralisation, but practically nothing would be done. This was done in the right way and we made a new programme for the first time, which is the choice of the capital of Serbia's culture. The Commission has already met the expert. Made one narrow choice of five cities. I have no right to speak of who entered that other city, but those cities that will soon be informed that they will be visited by the commission are in that narrow area. Indeed, all the applications were extremely good. Some have not responded to the task in the sense that they have asked for too much money and more applications resemble the capital of Europe's culture, but I have asked myself, it is possible that after Novi Sad, another city from Serbia is competing for such a prestigious title, and we will help another city in Serbia to be in the future the capital of Europe's culture, and in about a month we will know who is the first city in Serbia to bring this prestigious title for 2023 and that city will receive projects of infrastructure in culture much more money in 2022. As for Svrlig, I am sorry that MP Milija Miletic came out, I do not know why the commission in the field of information this time did not assess their project as satisfactory. By law, the Commission is elected on a public call, so that experts, journalists without any influence from the Ministry of Culture, appear here. I hope that next year, his project of "issuing magazines" will come out, that is, the Srljiga project will receive some funding, but Svrljig cannot complain much about the last few years of co-financing of projects in the field of culture. They won as a smaller municipality of nearly eight million dinars, so it cannot be said that any municipality in Serbia has been neglected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9262	Thank you. The last to be reported for this discussion is MP Luke Kebar. Ten minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9263	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, above all, I would like to congratulate all Serbs on the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and National Flag wherever they live. Also, I would also like to support these amendments that my colleagues from the parliamentary group of the Duke Hungarian Union have submitted, because I think it is good that we continue to develop these relations with national minorities. I feel free to say that with the Hungarians, we have not only correct, but extremely friendly close relations. We Serbs are a rich people, a people who have a history, who have a culture, who have a strong identity. It has a strong identity of humanity and heroism. A well-known theorist Max Weber, in his time, said that great nations are decorated by some golden age in history, and we Serbs have this golden age in history, and this is witnessed by many monasteries and our literature, art, battles, battles to preserve our national identity, our architecture. Our churches built under these Christian rules have an extremely Serbian style. That's what Raška and Moravian and Vardarian are talking about. So they have both Latin and Byzantine elements, according to church rules, but in very Serbian spirit they are built. Also, here I would agree with all my colleagues, especially colleagues and colleagues from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, who discussed this today, and especially with counterpart Lava Pajkic, who wrote well what the Croats did generally through our history to bring down the Serbian Cyrillic, in order for the Serbian letter to be humiliated. I'd like to mention another piece of information. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, marked anti-Serbian demonstrations were led in Zagreb, where Cyrillic tablets, or Serbian tablets with that Cyrillic letter, were broken. Also, on the other hand, not only is the Serbian Cyrillic being humiliated, it is trying to completely deconstruct itself as a single letter, as part of a culture, but it is also kidnapping what is Serbian, which is also the Serbian Latin. Ladies and gentlemen, just now, Lyudevid Guy constructed this then Serbian-Croatian Latin. In doing so, Lyudevid Gaj was a German, no Serb, no Croat, but then Djura Danicic, one of our greatest philosophers and lexicographers, who further improved the Latin. Here, the letter "J" is the example. It means that a number of people are trying to kidnap and what's ours, but we'll never let that happen. According to almost the same principle, children in Croatia are learning about Katarina Kotromanic. They also have streets dedicated to Katarina Kotromanic, which is good. In Slovenia they learn about Katarina Cerska, and in Germany about Barbara Cerska and that's good. They belong to these peoples. However, our children in our Serbian schools do not learn about Barbara Cerska or Katarina Cerska or Katarina Kotromanic, although they all have a prominent Serbian background. They all come from the Nemmanic Dynasty. So, our children, we have to learn about these Serbian giants, about Serbian princesses who were one of the largest in Europe and from that Barbara Cerska, who has this Serbian blood, the limited blood, all of the European royal families came, since she was the Empress of the Holy Roman, or the Holy Roman Empire. Also, given that this is a solemn moment, I will not talk much about certain members of our opposition, about Djilas, Jeremic, Mladjan Djordjevic, Tepicki, Tadic, Borislav Stefanovic, because their behaviour, their political opus still falls within one domain of psychopathology. I don't simply want this solemn, dignified moment to spoil by mentioning them and their actions, or misdeeds. Thanks to President Alexander Vukic, we have significantly improved our entire education, and many scientists around the world say that education is crucial, crucial to the preservation of the identity and culture of a country, of a nation. Therefore, I call on all Members of the People to support in this solemn day of voting this great law defending Serbia, the Serbian letter, strengthens our awareness of identity. May we have a happy holiday of the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag. Long live Serbia! Long live President Alexander Vukitch!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9264	Thank you. Do the government's representatives perhaps want to turn around at the very end? If not, I thank all those who participated in today's debate. Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9265	Just for a little while. I would like to thank all MPs and MPs for participating in this important Law on the use of the official language in public life, the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter. I believe that this is an extremely important law, which, through joint efforts in co-operation with all parliamentary groups, in co-operation with the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, after a long, perhaps four-year debate on public life, we have brought perhaps at the last moment when the Cyrillic indeed in the 21st century for various reasons began to lose the race with other letters and the impact on this truly unique letter in the world. I want to point out once again, because of all those who are trying to say that this endangers anyone's right to write in a Latin letter or to use their language in communication, that, of course, this law has no intention of doing so. In addition, the bill is in line with constitutional provisions, conventions on the rights of national minorities, which are the signatories of our country and which, in fact, as Parliament, you have adopted and other laws that are in the legal traffic of our country. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the amendments to the SVM parliamentary group, which only highlighted these things that I am talking about. We've added certain attitudes. We have also tried to accept an amendment that is not so much in the matter of this Act on the use of Cyrillic, but opens up the possibility of encouraging other business entities and private companies that print and issue works in minority languages, to open up the possibility of financial incentives and privileges to them, but as the Ambassador Pastor said, whether or not it will be, it depends further on when the implementation begins, or the application of this law within six months, within which they have all been given the opportunity to comply with their regulations and methods of work provided for by this law and that the Ministry of Finance responds to what incentive financial measures we will encourage releases in a Cyrillic letter, but thus opening up the possibility to encourage and business in the languages of national minorities in the environments in which they are used. Thank you very much. Once again, I invite you to support this law today and congratulate you on the great holiday of national unity, the holiday of freedom and our flag. I invite you to make this holiday a traditional holiday and to regularly mark it with our families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9266	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, and I would like to join the congratulations on the holiday. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have completed our search on all amendments, I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Wednesday, September 15th, 2021, starting at 15.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. So, we're approaching the vote in five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-15-0.u9267	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 190 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Use of Serbian Language in Public Life and the Protection and Conservation of the Cyrillic Letter Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and since the amendments submitted have become an integral part of the bill, the National Assembly will decide on this bill only in general. I put to the vote the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Final vote: total – 191 for – 191. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter. Thank you. I am sure that the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have contributed best to the celebration of the Day of National Unity, Freedom and the national flag. Since we have exhausted the agenda, I would just like to finally inform you that I have scheduled the 14th extraordinary session for Tuesday, September 21st, with three points of the agenda: a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the adoption of the Code of Conduct of Members of the People's Parliaments, a bill on amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and a bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the Holy monastery of Hilandar. As I was saying, since the National Assembly has conducted its consideration and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you.
