ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 172 MPs present at this time, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs – Milan Urosevic and Dr Vesna Ivkovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Maja Popovic, the minister of justice, with his associates. Dear People's MPs, we also have members of the Task Force on amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is accompanied by a session of the National Assembly from the Great Hall gallery of the House of the National Assembly, so I welcome them. Dear People's MPs, for the eighth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, I have established the next D's d'e n'e d'e d'Ivoire d'Ivoire. Proposal for a Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law; 2. Proposal for a constitutional law implementing the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and 3. The motion for a decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was also tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. National MP Ivica Dacic, i.e. I, pursuant to Articles 92, point 2, 157 and paragraphs 1 and 192, paragraphs 3, and corresponding to Article 157 paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that a common principle and uniform search be carried out on all three points of the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 168, abstention – one was not voted by five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Articles 146, point 1, 157, paragraphs 1 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157, point 2. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the draft act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the draft constitutional law implementing the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the motion for a decision to call a Republic referendum, to confirm the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I give my word to the proposing representative, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11096	Thank you, Chairman, dear Mr. Dacic, for giving me your word. Mrs Popovic, Mr. Vins, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, and I purposely left guests at the gallery, members of the Working Party for the Making Act on the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I am particularly pleased that you are here today to accompany today's debate. Dear citizens of Serbia, as everyone knows, the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a proposal to the National Assembly on 4 December 2020 to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives found at the meeting held on 6 May that that proposal was tabled by the Constitution of the Authorised Proposer and in the prescribed form and submitted a report to the National Assembly on 7 June, which also considered the two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs, of course, the Government's proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In view of the importance of constitutional changes, given the role of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law in this process, this committee has on several occasions organised public hearings on the subject of "Republic of Serbia in the field of justice", and in order to obtain information, opinions and views on changes to the Constitution of different relevant institutions, associations and experts in the field of justice. These public hearings were attended not only in Belgrade, but also in Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, by representatives of the judiciary, representatives of professional associations, representatives of independent state bodies, representatives of the professional public, legal chambers of Serbia, Vojvodina, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, representatives of civil society, representatives of EU member states' embassies, Great Britain, the United States and Canada, as well as representatives of international organisations, EU delegations in Serbia, OSCE missions in Serbia and the Council of Europe Office in Belgrade, as well as all interested actors, legal persons or citizens who showed their desire to take part and to take their views or their views on constitutional changes. Public listenings were transmitted, so they had their live stream, they were recorded, they are on official assembly channels, they are available to the public. With these public hearings, there are also records used by the Working Group precisely because of remarks or proposals discussed to be found in an act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. All public hearings were attended by members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, taking part in discussions so that they could vote on these acts at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. The committee formed a Working Group tasked with drawing up an act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I also want to say who did this task force. So it was: Prof. Dr. Vladan Petrov, Professor of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, Constitutional Court Judge and member of the Venice Commission for Serbia, Branko Marinković, Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly, Jovan Ćosic, Assistant Minister of Justice, Darko Radojić, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law, Vladimir Vinš, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice, Dr. Milos Stanic and Dr. Miroslav Đordjevic, Scientific Associates at the Institute for Comparative Law, Dragan Bolijevic, Judge of the Supreme Cassation Court and Honorary Chairman of the Association of Judges of Serbia, Dr. Goran Ilic, Deputy President of the State Council of Prosecutors, Bojan Milisavljević, Professor of the Law Faculty of the University of Belgrade and I, the Committee for Constitutional Affairs and Law. The members of the Working Group attended public hearings, to hear different proposals and views of stakeholders or to explain in public hearing the reasons why we, as the Working Group working on the draft amending act of the Constitution, opted for a solution. Another information about the Working Group, because I have been repeatedly asked in some informal discussions -- members of the Working Group did not have any compensation for this work. So, Serbian citizens didn't cost anything to the Working Group. The Assembly had certain costs related to public hearings and related exclusively to the transport of board members and nothing more, and the Working Party held its meetings in the Assembly Committee Halls. The working group completed its work on September 3rd, after which another round of public hearings was conducted, which presented an act the Working Group produced and which was subsequently addressed to the Venice Commission for a positive opinion. What the public needs to understand, and as far as the Venice Commission is concerned, is that their experts have really helped us to remain consistent with the goal we had at the beginning of this process, which is to implement this part of the reform in the best possible way, in terms of implementing their recommendations, as rules that apply in the EU, and to be incorporated into our legislation and the next day applicable. In this year, the Venice Commission's opinion on the harmonisation of the Constitutional Amendment Act with international standards has been asked twice and the Venice Commission has given us its opinion twice. In the first opinion we received after their plenary session, held on 15 October, recommendations were given to be adopted to improve the final text of the Constitutional Amendment Act. Recommendations have also been accepted in the best possible way. I always say that the Working Group had a difficult task, because during the process it took us to clarify some things to the representatives of the Venice Commission, precisely because of the differences that exist in our legal systems. I'll give you one example. The rapporteurs did not understand, for example, the difference between the two remedies to be brought to the Constitutional Court. It's a constitutional appeal and a constitutional court appeal. The constitutional appeal is filed when all legal means are exhausted and are protected by the Constitution of guaranteed rights, so for example, for these reasons we have received a recommendation to change one member. Both members of the Working Group and members of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee had on-line meetings with the representatives of the Venice Commission, were always there or Mrs Popovic as justice minister or Vladimir Vins or any representative of the Justice Minister, because both at the beginning and at the first meeting, we agreed with Prime Minister Brnabic and Parliament President Dacic that we would work together on this task as a team. Together with the representatives of the Venice Commission, we have come to a solution that will have the best effects in our judicial system in the future. At a plenary session of the Venice Commission in Venice, October 15th, the Serbian delegation was present and what was perhaps our personal satisfaction but certainly satisfaction for our country was that at that time we could hear the words of praise by the rapporteurs for our agenda point, but not only by one reporter, but also by all representatives of the Venice Commission who particularly highlighted the importance of the degree of transparency and inclusiveness that we achieved throughout the process. The Venice Commission gave us a positive opinion right after that. Although later, for example, we were not formally obliged to seek a positive opinion again, because of good relations with the representatives of the Venice Commission, we decided to once again send the recommendations to the Venice Commission the draft Act amending the Constitution to get another so-called. The emergency opinion of the Venice Commission, which was also positive. That's how we proceeded in front of the Venice Commission and ended it. As you can see, these changes didn't happen overnight. We have been behind us for quite certain since the beginning of this call, but we can go back further into the past, if we remember that in 2018, it seems to me, the Venice Commission has given a certain opinion on so-called. The constitutional amendments were preceded by a long-term procedure in any case. Serbia is ready to work to improve the legislative system. Serbia is ready to work to improve the legislative system in general, but more specifically, a legislative framework that includes laws that should be amended, or to comply with the Constitution after these changes, if Serbian citizens confirm them, and we also pointed out at meetings that it is of great importance when we spoke to European experts. I hope, on the other hand, that everyone invited in this EU procedure will evaluate our work, objectively look at everything and say that we have succeeded. Because we are committed to this procedure not to talk about how we are doing something or to act out a role, but because we are determined to fight in this way for the citizens of Serbia, if this will mean the opening of clusters or a better position of Serbia generally on the international stage. I hope, too, that we have reached a broader social consensus on these issues, because it was also one of the goals that we set out with the first meeting that we agreed on with President Dacic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Today you have before you a proposal for an act amending the Constitution, with an explanation. I hope that after a constructive debate, they will be adopted. I would say that it is good for our path to formal full membership in the EU, I would say that it is good for our judiciary, whose authorities and holders of judicial functions will be given greater jurisdiction, but that will certainly mean greater responsibility for them. I would say it is good for Serbia's rating, which daily shows that it can stand side by side with the most developed countries in many areas. This will certainly improve our country's status in the international community. It is good to show that we are ready to go to the end, that we are ready not to give up, that we will fight, because all of this will ultimately mean better conditions for the lives of Serbian citizens. I'd be done with this, and I'll definitely continue in the part where I speak as an authorised representative of an authorised group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11097	Thank you. The word has a minister of justice, Maja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11098	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are on the agenda of the Special Sessions of the National Assembly Proposal for an Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Constitutional Law to implement the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum on the validation of the Act of Amendment of the Constitution. As a representative of the Government who has submitted a proposal to amend the Constitution, I will introduce you to the reasons for the change of the Constitution in the area of justice and the proposed solutions. The proposed changes to the Constitution are primarily aimed at increasing the legal security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Only an independent judiciary and an independent public prosecutor's office guarantee citizens adequate protection of justice in judicial proceedings. It is necessary for citizens to have effective judicial authorities so that they can achieve their rights and protect within a reasonable period of time. The proposed amendments to the Constitution are foreseen as an activity in the Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 23. The change of the Constitution in the area of justice is a condition for further reform of the legal system and the most significant reform in the area of rule of law, which represents the fundamental value of every democratic society and one of the priorities of EU policy. With that in mind, the Republic of Serbia pays great attention to meeting the obligation contained in Chapter 23, the judiciary and fundamental law. Because of their importance of the first activity in the revised action plan for Chapter 23, they are dedicated to the amendments to the Constitution in order to strengthen the rule of law which, as the most constitutional value, has for its assumption of improving the quality of justice, as well as increasing the independence of judges and the independence of the public prosecutor, as well as their greater impartiality, expertise, accountability and efficiency. The implementation of these activities depends on the fulfillment of a number of other activities under this negotiating chapter. If the Constitution changes, it will certainly mean strengthening the rule of law and Serbia's progress in an important area, and thus better assessments in the EU membership negotiations process. At the same time, this will allow for an accelerated continuation of this process since progress in the area of government is a condition for the opening of other negotiating chapters, i.e. now clusters. Therefore, I expect that the European Commission will appreciate the efforts Serbia is making to amend constitutional provisions on justice. In addition, changes to the judiciary's constitution are a condition for meeting a significant number of recommendations from the anti-corruption group, GRECO, within the fourth evolutionary circle, thus allowing Serbia to be no longer on the list of globally unsatisfactory countries in the area of preventing corruption. However, the provisions of the Constitution in the area of justice should be changed, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, because it is in our interest, not because the EU and some other international organisation are asking us to. It is in the interests of Serbian citizens that we have a judiciary that is impartial, professional, responsible and effective. Thus, the judiciary will be best able to protect the constitutionally guaranteed human rights and freedoms of our citizens and judge fairly and within a reasonable time. Only such a judiciary is a justice system in which citizens will trust. It is now the citizens of Serbia whose interest changes to the constitution in the area of justice will be given a final court on them in a referendum, if the National Assembly adopts an act amending the Constitution with a two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs. I express my firm belief that this will happen on the day of the referendum. The proposed changes to the Constitution will exclude policy participation in the choice of judges, the president of courts and public prosecutors, which will allow greater independence of judges and greater independence of public prosecutors, and this will also mean greater responsibility for which not only strengthens the rule of law, but also enhances legal certainty, and greater legal certainty will also affect the inflow of particularly foreign investment. This will lead to an increase in the standards of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The draft act amending the Constitution to be discussed today provides that judges and presidents of the courts are to be elected exclusively by the High Council of the judiciary whose composition and way of selecting members are to be amended, so that in the future they will have six members, elected by judges from the ranks of judges, four members from the ranks of prominent lawyers, elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the competent committee and after a public competition, two-thirds of the votes of all MPs and the President of the Supreme Court, in place. Also, the draft envisions changing the composition and way of electing members of the State's Council of Prosecutors, which will be called the Prosecutor's Council in the future. The body will be in charge of electing top public prosecutors, as current public prosecutors and public prosecutors will be called in the future, as the current deputy public prosecutors will be called. The High Council of the Prosecutors is scheduled to have 11 members in the future: five members elected by the main public prosecutors and a public prosecutor from the public prosecutor's office, four members elected by the National Assembly from the ranks of prominent lawyers on a proposal from the committee responsible and following a public competition with a two-thirds majority of the votes of all MPs, while the Supreme Public Prosecutor will be called the Republic Public Prosecutor in the future, and the minister in charge of the judiciary will be members of the High Council of the Prosecutors. The National Assembly elects a tropetine majority of all MPs. Considering that sometimes it is difficult to achieve a two-thirds, or tropical majority in the National Assembly to elect a member of the High Council of the judiciary, the High Council of Prosecutors and the Supreme Prosecutors has been overlooked by the mechanism to prevent the blockades of the work of these authorities. If, for their members, i.e. the chief public prosecutor does not vote two-thirds or three-fifths of all the MPs of these bodies, members of the high-level lawyers or the chief public prosecutor shall be elected by a committee composed of representatives of the bodies of the constitutional category: the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Prosecutor, the Citizens' Protector. This composition of the commission is foreseen because it represents a body that should replace the responsibilities of the National Assembly when the National Assembly is unable to decide on the selection of prominent lawyers or top public prosecutor. That is why it is most similar to being composed of the bearers of the highest public functions, which are also the constitutional category. The name of the highest court in the country has also been changed, so it will be called the Supreme Court in the future, because the current name of the highest court, Supreme Cassation Court, is in itself contradictory. The existence of a three-year trial mandate for judges or deputy public prosecutors who were first elected to a judicial, or public prosecutorial office criticised in the opinion of the Venice Commission on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia adopted in 2007. Also, the trial mandate of the judges, i.e. the deputy public prosecutor, did not come across the support of the professional public or the academic community in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would stress that the provisions of the constitutional law unequivocally states that until the re-election of judges, the president of courts and public prosecutors, as well as their deputies, will not be, because we had the opportunity to make sure that he looked in the not-so-time past at the so-called so-called time. judicial reform, without clear criteria and criteria for the assessment of expertise, skills and dignity and without the fair evaluation of their work. In addition, it should be stressed that in the process of changing the Constitution, the Constitution insisted on dialogue and compromise between politics, science and profession, which is a key feature of this process and a crucial factor in the creation of a quality act on amending the Constitution. I believe that the greatest success in the process of changing the Constitution is achieved by the way and style this procedure has been led to this day. It was a completely open and public procedure, there were many public hearings throughout Serbia in two circles, in May and June, and then in September of this year. There were regular consultations with the Venice Commission. It has educated a regular group that has carried out perhaps the greatest burden of this job, because through its work a quality text on the amendment of the Constitution has been created, the potential for achieving the widest possible degree of social consensus in the given circumstances, which is not only the standards of the Venice Commission, but the condition of any constitutional reform that tends to be sustainable and leaves lasting positive effects in the state and society. On this occasion, I would especially like to thank all those who participated in the drafting of these constitutional amendments, especially members of the working group, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and in particular the chairman of the Committee Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, because they have borne the greatest burden of these constitutional reforms. The work group, as well as the transparency and inclusiveness of the constitutional change process, have so far been praised by the Venice Commission, as the advisory body of the Council of Europe in this area. This particular body has delivered a positive opinion on the draft Act amending the Constitution that we are discussing today. It is usually the first time that an opinion in the text of the Act amending the Constitution and the Constitutional Law for its implementation by the Venice Commission before the adoption of the National Assembly, thus showing how much we respect this reputed body. The positive opinion obtained is proof that we are on the right track and that we are ready to strengthen the rule of law in the interests of our citizens. At the same time, this will be an indication of how to work on a law that we will have to comply with the Treaty amending the Constitution if it is adopted today and then confirmed by citizens in the referendum. These are just some of the important changes that will be passed by an act of amendment to the Constitution that we will discuss today and decide on. It is important that today we hear quality arguments for and against the Act amending the Constitution and the Constitutional Law for its implementation. Most important is the citizens of Serbia who may be encouraged by today's debate and decide to go to the referendum, and then I am confident that they are voting for these constitutional changes. In the spirit of all of this, I invite you to participate actively in today's debate and to support the proposed acts in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11099	Thank you. Before we move on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary clubs, a notice about today's work. In accordance with Articles 27 and 77, paragraphs 2 and 3 shall apply. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11100	Thank you. Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, respected ministers with an associate, before I move on to a very important agenda that is ahead of us today, I would like to introduce my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament to a text that appeared on certain portals, which reads "Tandir's praise to Vukic infuriates the rage of Bosniaks". Here's what it looks like. I didn't give any praise. The owners of this cyber-sanitary dump are people close to former Minister Rasim Ljajic and I ask my SNS colleagues if this is how your partners write about you, what do your enemies think? For my own sake and my client's sake, I'm saying I didn't give any praises. I gave clear and loud support to President Aleksandr Vukic's policy and that he maintained the word and agreement that he made with rickety our president, Mufti Muamer Zukorilić, full support for all infrastructure projects that should be implemented in the area of the Sanjay municipalities, such as the pipeline, such as the construction of the highway, the clinical hospital center and such as investment in infrastructure, new schools, hospitals, kindergartens, etc. The goal of this text, respected colleagues and colleagues, is to present that Bosniaks are against the president, which is not true. The second goal is for anyone who praises the government of the Republic of Serbia to be a target and to carry out its dehumanisation. So, all that we think should be improved, we say it clearly and argumentably, but what's good is we don't have a problem commending, so it's very important that the public and our partners get to know what's being said here in the O.R., and what's written on the portals in Sandzak. As for today's agenda topic, I want to say the Act on the Change of the Constitution, the calling of a Republic referendum to confirm the Act on the Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so just say the Constitution and clearly how important today's session is. Before I refer to what the subject of the amendments to the Constitution is, I would like to commend the representatives of the Ministry, I would like to commend the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Working Group. I think we've talked about constitutional changes more than once here, and there's a little more to do today than we can say. It is clear that the changes in the Constitution are the consequences of the requirements of our path to the EU. It is something that is part of Chapter 23, which concerns the judiciary and that is something, given our strategic commitment, to be part of the EU, we must also fulfill. What's personal is that what we've chosen so far is judges, prosecutors, court presidents here in parliament, I've never seen it as politics, but as a people's position. People sitting here aren't just politicians, they're elected representatives of the people. However, it is clear that certain conditions have been laid before us, which aim to increase the independence of judicial authorities and we will, of course, support them. The Justice and Reconciliation Party as the strongest Bosniak party and our MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party in voting day will vote for all proposed laws and, of course, when it comes to referendums, citizens and citizens, we will call on them to respond to the referendum and what we adopt today and to give citizens a referendum of support. What is very important is that these changes to the Constitution and other European laws that we are adopting, and it is important that citizens know that we are doing it because of ourselves, because we feel the need to make our society, our country, our democracy, our rule of law even more functional, not because some bureaucrats from Brussels, Strasbourg, or from another European capital, Berlin, I don't know, put ahead of us some conditions. It's our commitment and it's our independent, completely independent decision. What I'm trying to say and what's very important is that the Venice Commission has given its positive position to these constitutional changes. Although the Venice Commission has given a positive signal, we see that certain political groups, both right and left, have some reserves again and we return to that people's saying that the world cannot be satisfied and that it does not really matter whether the ruling majority, whether the president of the state, does good things, but simply, we will, in the difolt, usually criticise what the government is proposing, whether it's good or bad. So, independent international representative institutions have given the green light, welcomed this proposal, and I think for all of the people who suspected, the unbelieving Tom, whom he may have, that this should be a signal that this is the right thing to do and that it should be supported. What is very important to me is that the Assembly as the largest representative body, as the greatest expression of democracy, and we as representatives of the people will still remain partially involved in the choice of judges and prosecutors. As for the situation in the judiciary, I want to say that this government and all governments have been doing a lot of work since 2014, and I want to give you credit, too. However, it is clear what kind of a javelin we inherited, especially through that reform that we had in 2008 and 2009 and what is particularly important is that commitment both the president of the state and the Prime Minister, the fight against crime and corruption. That is why these constitutional changes are important, in order to have a more effective and efficient fight against crime and corruption. It's a million-dollar question, and it's not just our country and our society. We have seen that both advanced countries and EU and US countries have the problem. Even now that we have visited the region of Gabriel Escobar, a representative of the State Department, he stressed that the problem of crime, corruption and the problem of judicial independence is one of the priorities and administrations of President Biden. What I want to take advantage of your presence to support you to continue on this course, because it is a very worrying situation for me in certain parts, and more than once, it has been said by the rickety president of Academyman Muammer Zukorlic, that we have only cities in our country where the price of judgment is known, that you have lawyers who can finish certain judgments and that in one city you even had a judge with a gig, which is absolutely unacceptable. What is very important for us, members of minority communities, especially for my Bosniak people, is the official use of language and letters in proceedings before the competent courts and the percentage representation of Bosniaks in courts, prosecutors and I ask you to take care of it. It is clear that we have inherited a number of problems, but it is clear that both the President of the State and the Prime Minister see all citizens and citizens of this country as their home. That's why I most constructively introduce you to this problem and work in the next period to settle it to the satisfaction of all citizens and citizens. What we have inconsensually for the Balkans, and for our country, is this syntagma that we have good laws, but that there is no implementation. So we have the law, but there's no implementation. So we've got the law, but we're out of application. I hope, you certainly have the support of this House, that's something we have to correct. So, what's the problem? Well, the problem is a human factor. It's simple, if we have a regulation, if we have trained people, so they're not judges who aren't in the branch or prosecutors. It's just that these are people who have high qualifications, who have passed certain checks, and I can't accept that we now have a problem in implementation. As far as we have, how can we say, a truly wide range of concepts of what the law is, I will remind you, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, on the case of the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, by which, indeed clearly, it is said that there can be only one traditional church and religious community, and that in 2006 and 2007, when at the head of this state and government there was a man who represented himself as a legalist, we had one more paraverical creation, so to speak. The Islamic community and that's something that I point out as a lesson that something like that must never happen to us again. As for the very change of the Constitution, there is no small change in the Constitution. Every change in the Constitution is historic. What we're doing right now is one big historical thing and I stress this so that we all know how important things are for this country, for our people, for our citizens. An example of a long-term, functional constitution is the 1787 Constitution of the United States, which was ratified in 1788 and not completely changed, but was complemented by numerous amendments. I also want to remind myself of some of the constitutions that have given a seal to our society and our country, such as the 1835 Happy Constitution, a very advanced constitution, which unfortunately lasted only 55 days, and which for the first time introduced that distribution of power to executive, judicial and legislative and which was indeed one civilizational step and one breath of democracy in these areas. Also, as much as the adoption of the new Constitution can be turbulent and challenging, it is the Octroised Constitution, imposed by King Alexander in 1931, which resulted in a number of riots in the next year, in 1932 and 1933. Perhaps the constitution most commented in public discourse is the 1974 Constitution. For many, he introduced federalization and that it is the cornerstone of the collapse of the then state, and yet, for others, it is the breath of democracy. So will these changes that we are talking about today, and they will be interpreted in one way or another, but it is important that we have sincere faith, that everything we do, we are doing in the interests of the citizens and that this country, the state of Serbia, do as functionally as possible. I'm going to give another brief review of the 2006 Constitution. When this constitution was passed, we, led by then by Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, who was headed by the Islamic community, then I was his fellow in the religious community, expressed the view that we were not satisfied with this constitutional solution. What I want to point out is that we support this change in the Constitution, but I think we will have to go into deeper changes in the Constitution in the next period. What's our point of view is that we don't have to agree on all things, but if we have to solve all differences with dialogue, we have to deal with conversations. In 2006, too, we pointed out some things and some objections that we do not agree with, and as the definition of state, civil, as we experience it, and the introduction of the middle level of government, we think that so the state apparatus would be more functional, but, my God, we can't do that now. What I was saying and what we were saying in 2006 is something we're going to pursue. The MP group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants' Party will vote for the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11101	Thank you. The People's Messenger Selma Kučević has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11102	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today on the agenda a proposal for an act amending the Constitution. Although it is clear to us as the only parliamentary opposition group that European integration is not the only foreign-political priority currently in Serbia, and what these partial amendments of the Constitution say, we believe it is necessary to contribute to the harmonisation of our domestic law with EU law and legal assets. When we talk about changing the Constitution in the work of the judiciary, I certainly believe that the basic argument for this change of the Constitution is the fact that today's Constitution leaves too much space of influence both legislative and executive authorities with regard to the choice of holders of judicial functions. When it comes to the proposal for a change of the Constitution in the area of justice, I think it is also important to mention that, because of the avoidance of debate on constitutional solutions, especially as a result of a shift in attention from the primary issue of judicial independence, i.e. justice, the expert public has given up, or has broken down with further participation in such a process, which certainly reduces the legitimacy of the process of amending the Constitution itself in the work of justice. I am certainly referring to the Association of Judges of Serbia, then, the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, the Centre for Judicial Research, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors' Assistants of Serbia and the Committee of Human Rights. Also, critics of the expert public say that the Justice Ministry has not significantly altered the current concept of constitutional changes in the area of justice that put this branch of government in a subordinate and controlled position, only because it has proposed the concept of a government that allows executive and legislative authority to check the judiciary's independence is merely a mere formulation. It failed to define the content of the judicial authority, then left out essential guarantees, such as the court budget and salaries corresponding to the dignity of the judges and the weight of the function they are acting. It introduced the possibility of reviewing any court ruling by the Constitutional Court, which therefore lacks an adequate guarantee of independence, at risk of guaranteeing the unmovableness of judges by extending the situation in which the judges and without their consent could be transferred to another court. Also, it requires the return of an earlier name for the highest court, or Supreme Court. The judge's trial selection has been suspended. The election of judges and court presidents is entrusted to the High Council of the Judiciary, and the composition of the High Council of the judiciary with an odd number, in which the majority of judges are. So, as there are these relevant reasons for changing the Constitution in the field of justice, there are also a number of other reasons for changing the entire Constitution. I'll only give you some of them on this occasion. When we talk about Article 1. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, defines this member as the state of Serbia as the state of the Serbian people. This member is problematic from the aspect of national minorities. The Republic of Serbia is a national structure of heterogeneous states, where more than 20% of the population are members of national minorities and communities, and its definition as a country of one majority people strengthens the belief that members of other communities of different origin are actually citizens of the second order. In this case, we can imitate Montenegro, for example, whose Constitution in Article 2 provides that the holder of sovereignty is a citizen who has Montenegrin citizenship, the citizen is directly or through elected representatives. Since the Republic of Serbia has been representing itself as the legal successor of the former SFRY since the Yugoslav crisis, we are looking in this regard for a complete change in the Constitution that corresponds to today's territory of the Republic of Serbia. The reason why we believe that the whole change of the constitution is necessary is because the Bosniaks in the former SFRY had the status of the people and we believe that this right cannot be taken away. It is also very important to mention that the text of the national anthem, as well as the design of the national coat of arms, are exclusively symbols of the Serb people. We ask that the contents of the anthem and the coat of arms be brought into line with the situation on the ground, so that the state symbols are acceptable to all citizens living in the territory of this country. When we refer to Article 10, which defines the language and the letter, we agree with the opinion of the Venice Commission, which states that it is striking that, compared to the 1990 Constitution, there is a reduction in the protection of minority language rights, because Article 8 of that Constitution explicitly provided that the latinic letter in official application was established by law. The Constitution stipulates that it does not reduce the level of human and minority rights achieved, since most members of national minorities, whose number and territorial distribution are not negligible, benefit from a mahinge latinic letter, and should be considered whether such a Article 10. The Constitution best regulates the official use of language and letters. Experts also find that Serbia has not created a legal framework for the exercise of certain guaranteed rights in accordance with international standards because the text of the Constitution includes too wide a list of social, economic and cultural rights, as well as so-called so-called social, economic and cultural rights. the rights of the second and third generations, and therefore their implementation will depend on the means provided by the legislator, to include courts in providing these funds, which will therefore turn the entire human rights section into a list of aspirations instead of applicable rights. Applying international standards in shell rights are not directly listed as a source of law and therefore, in practice, courts and do not call for valid international human rights standards. The provision of Article 20 which speaks of the restriction of human and minority rights, which experts consider to be a problem of interpretation and implementation due to the ambiguity of this provision. Article 20 does not restrict the right and freedom to a specific legitimate objective, but allows for restrictions for any purpose, and such a formulation of Article 20 does not comply with the European Convention on Human Rights which speaks of a legitimate objective. Although the Constitution prohibits any form of discrimination, it is a problematic part of the Constitution relating to specific measures, i.e. measures of affirmative action or positive discrimination taken in order to remove the actual inequality and achieve full equality of persons who are in an unequal position with other citizens. With these measures, the problem is that these measures are not considered discrimination because they put a more favourable position on the person, or groups that are in a factually unequal position with others. It is therefore necessary to include in the text their non-discriminatory character in order not to be assessed as unconstitutional. Even though it's in Article 50. The constitution finds that there is no censorship in Serbia, censorship is not explicitly prohibited, nor is punishment prescribed. So the question arises – how much does this declaration of hers without sanctions make any sense? Article 58 guarantees the right to property, but a provision that provides for the possibility of restrictions on the use of property rights does not contain a provision of proportionality of such a restriction and does not comply with the international obligations that Serbia has made. In Article 76, which regulates the rights of national minorities, the Constitution regulates that special measures are being taken to achieve full equality of national minorities with citizens belonging to the majority, but the conditions of application of these measures have been set restrictively. Taking such measures allows only the existence of extremely unfavourable conditions for life that affect national minorities and therefore the question is rightly raised – can only the existence of extremely unfavourable living conditions justify taking these measures without them being considered discriminatory? So these are just some of the reasons why I think a complete change in the Constitution is necessary, not just a partial one. Our principled view is that partial changes to the constitution are only a way away from the basic goal -- Serbia's full integration into the EU. For this reason, I believe that this partial amendment to the Constitution is not in the context of Serbia's rapid application for EU membership, and I believe that with the full change of the Constitution it is necessary to move as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11103	Proposer, National MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11104	Thank you, Chairman. Without any intention of getting into replicas or opening a discussion on some issues, I just want to inform the citizens of Serbia about something that really is facts. We are talking today about constitutional changes in the area of justice, and I think that, on the one hand, it is really good to maybe expand the discussion to other parts of the Constitution. I will tell you that it has been so much harder for the task force to change only one part of the Constitution relating to the judiciary because the Working Group has always had to bear in mind that these provisions, which we create in this Working Group, must be created in such a way as to be complementary to the other parts of the Constitution, but also to adopt some rules that apply in EU countries. So we can talk in some future period about changing the whole constitution, or bringing the whole constitution, but today it's not a topic. Certainly the subject of constitutional change in the area of justice. As far as national minorities are concerned, members of the national minorities in Serbia have never been discriminated against, and especially not by the government they commit or led by the SNS. That's what we show here in the National Assembly when we pass laws. We have the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, etc. We would not adopt laws in the National Assembly concerning the position or repair of the position of national minorities... In any case, the fact is that, in respect of human and minority rights, Serbia is among the first in Europe. All I have left to say for the sake of the public, and also because of my colleagues and colleagues sitting at the gallery today, that the relationship with representatives of civil society, during public hearing, was really good and good quality. You know, we've accepted that they all have different opinions, different views and that they're going to make their proposals. Many of these proposals have been made by professional associations and the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and CEPRIS and Jukom etc. is indeed accepted and implemented in this text that lies before you today. On the other hand, a lot of representatives of the civil sector or of the professional associations I personally heard when they praised the guests on television without any need for me to now have the need to praise this draft act on the amendment of the Constitution, but we actually sat down and worked together. That is what is important to say and what Serbian citizens should know is that with representatives of civil society who participated here in public hearing, which lasted from 11am to 5:30 p.m., we gave our proposals and our opinions. I will take the opportunity to thank the representatives of civil society for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11105	Thank you. The Minister also spoke for it. Before I give my word to the minister, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Djordj Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11106	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106 was injured, the MP should speak at the session about the agenda point, and Article 107 was injured, which is the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A respected colleague, regardless of her identity, we respect the identity of every MP, but what he says must be characterized by what we did at the beginning of this term, which is that we took an oath and signed that we would respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Here it is said, the Honorable chairman, a vast number of lies, not to tell notorious lies. We are again in a situation to talk about the full equality of national minorities. Of course, there is a full equality of national minorities in Serbia and, as counterpart Zaric Kovacevic said, Serbia is the first in Europe. There's only one way to achieve this, and we know what it is. It's secession and it's a division of Serbia. It will not succeed in that intention and will not change the preamble and is not a preamble topic. Maybe they could have discussed it in 2009 and 2011, so they stopped in 2011, because it was a working group, correct me if I was wrong, colleague Žarić Kovacevic, who worked on this, so it stopped in 2011, because the preamble was a problem, and in 2012, it was an election, so they did not continue to work. In 2017 a new working group was created which worked until 2018. No agreement was reached with the professional associations, although the Venice Commission did give a positive opinion and then there was no change. In 2019 we have a new working group, full consent of the Venice Commission, full consent of professional associations, civil sector, and I see no reason to speak beyond what is the subject today. Do not worry, fellow Members, whether Serbia will move with partial changes quickly through European integration, so we are doing and doing this because of European integration. Each report by the European Commission generally honours Serbia, largely respects Serbia for the lack of political will to do something in the rule of law. With these changes, we will strengthen and strengthen our judiciary and this is essentially the main reform process today in Serbia. So we'll have a more efficient and independent judiciary and prosecution. Don't make a different story out of this and please focus on the bar through the discussion, be so correct, focus on the discussion if you don't already respect what you've signed, focus on what's on the agenda today. Thank you, Chairman. I'm not asking the Assembly to declare themselves in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11107	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11108	I just have to say that Mrs. Kučević has brought forth a series of lies in her address, which is that the expert public has been excluded from making decisions. Here at the gallery are the presidents of the largest associations, the Association of Judges and the Association of Prosecutors, who were also members of the Task Force. Also, these constitutional amendments removed any objections from the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court. Well, who in your opinion, ma'am, should represent another professional public, if the professors of law schools, the greatest experts in the domain of parallel law, agree with this text, who is this expert public who disagreed with you? In spite of all this, we have twice received positive opinions from the Venice Commission. Representatives of parliament and the president of parliament were on the Venice Commission. When you congratulate the President of the Venice Commission, when you are congratulated by the rapporteurs from the Council of Europe, who are certainly not too kind to us, it is a great success. In that sense, your remarks that you made about part of the judiciary, because this is the subject of today's session, I have to tell you that everything can't be completely solved by the Constitution and that matter is "constitutional", we leave something for the laws as well. After the adoption, if two-thirds of the MPs vote for it, we are going immediately, that is, after the people confirm it in the referendum, we are starting to produce a set of laws that will actually be the implementation of these constitutional reforms. And also, with the same principle, we're going to go -- we're going to include the profession, we're going to include science, we're going to include the norm, we're going to include, of course, the Assembly Committee. In that sense, please do not make up false things that will reduce the importance of success with these constitutional amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11109	Thank you. Replica, Selma Kučević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11110	Thank you. The Minister, therefore, I have clearly fenced myself, and I have pointed out exactly what professional public I mean. So, the Association of Judges of Serbia, the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, the Centre for Justice Research, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors' Assistants of Serbia and the Committee of Human Rights. As for the definition, i.e. the overall change of the Constitution, I have stated exactly which members we have disputed and for what reasons we require this whole, or complete change of the Constitution. I'm being charged with some kind of secession here, so I'd appreciate it if my colleague answered me in what way I did it or how did I explain that he took it as an invitation to secession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11111	The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11112	I just have to repeat that the Society of Judges and the Association of Prosecutors were members of the Working Group, i.e. Their presidents and that they absolutely supported these constitutional amendments. The highest possible degree of consensus has been achieved, given that they have indeed worked in one democratic spirit, with one positive spirit, to meet all aspects and needs of our state of the Republic of Serbia, which was a fundamental element, but also those standards of the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11113	Thank you. (Jorge Milicevic: Replica. ) The basis for the replica is the People's MP Đorđe Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11114	So there is no state where more minority languages are used than with us. When it comes to secession, I was thinking about what, colleague, when you say "we have a coat of arms, we have an anthem". What anthem do you have? What coat of arms do you have? You have the respect of the Republic of Serbia as representatives of the national minority, but respect the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia has its own anthem and has its national and state symbols which you obviously do not respect. You obviously don't respect. Selma Kučević: With what? This is exactly the kind of exposure when you say you have your anthem, when you say you have your flag. (Muamer Bacevac: He speaks to the messengers. So, I can talk to my colleague, she asked me a question. What's the problem? You can answer it and say it, answer it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11115	I ask my colleague, Milicevic, to use time for replication without arguing with other MPs. Please. (Muamer Bacevac: Respect the MP.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11116	I respect, I answer to my colleague, of course. (Muamer Bačevac: Answer the President of the Assembly. I don't need the president of the assembly to respond to the replica. So one is a replica, one is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague asked me a question. I don't know where you come from in this story at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11117	Col. Milicevic, please speak to me, let your colleagues on the side that disturb you, speak to me. I'm taking care of the order of this assembly, speak to me, you've reached out to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11118	My colleague asked me a question. Everything's fine. It's all right, I don't know where my colleague's nerves come from, and I'm talking to a colleague because she asked me a specific question, and I answered that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11119	Turn over to me, please. You know, you've been to this place, you know how it goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11120	Here, I'm talking to you now, and you tell your colleague everything I said, everything I talked about. So I'm gonna do it again, you're not gonna make it on purpose, so give it to your colleague. There's no Sandzak, there's a Raski administrative district. It is thus defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If you start an initiative to change the integrity of the Constitution, we're ready to talk about it here in the tide. We absolutely don't mind, but at this point, please respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and to this you are bound by the oath you signed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Don't keep pretending to be someone who represents Bosniaks. You don't represent all Bosniaks and not all Bosniaks think alike. Believe me, they don't. I've been in Sjenica and Novi Pazar in the past week, and not everyone thinks the same thing, and not everyone thinks, but not everyone finds it hard to be a Bosniak in Serbia today. Is that right, colleague Tandir? Thank you, and you tell your colleague this.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11121	You know your colleague here, I told you, you led the Parliament in the last term, you were vice president, so you don't have to joke like that. (Jahja Fehratovic: The breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Jahja Fehratović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11122	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. We have talked here many times about representatives of minority nations and minorities and it is a little bit degutant to keep repeating all this, but what it is is definitely that we understand different terms and terms of cultural, historical and territorial administrative. So Sandzak exists. He's not a territorial-administrative category right now, but he exists as a cultural, as a historical fact, as a geographical fact. It is also not good to mix these things constitutionally with all this for the reasons that there are among Bosniaks those who voted for this constitution as it is, for that anthem as it is. We, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, did not vote for it and of course those who voted, now the loudest against such anthem and such a constitution, they even sing that anthem, have no problem singing it. So we're talking about one populist relationship, one relationship that's in Pazar, Sandzak, and the other one here. It's not a reflection of the Bosniaks, it's not a reflection of the Muslims. We Bosniaks respect everything that the Republic of Serbia has done, respect all differences, respect laws, the Constitution. We argue that, according to the laws and constitution, the Republic of Serbia has the best relationship against minority peoples. The problem is in implementation and the problem is that we are fighting for all the rights that the Constitution and the laws guarantee us, but not by pulsism, not by double arches, not by double standards, but by the way – consistently, transparently, where we should fight, which is here in this Assembly. We also take that position in Pazar, Belgrade, Sarajevo and anywhere. So I would ask that all those who talk about these things take care of feelings and minority, but also of the majority people, not to bring us into the position of populist debates because it doesn't do anyone any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11123	Thank you. Does counterpart Fehratovic want the Assembly to declare itself on Voting Day? (Jahja Fehratovic: No. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Jelena Žarić Kovačević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I took the opportunity to report to the Rules of Procedure anyway because I would like to point out, to tell you that the Constitution is the highest act of the Republic of Serbia, in which national minorities live alongside Serbs. Today we are discussing issues concerning all citizens of Serbia. In this spirit today, I ask that we discuss today constitutional changes in the area of justice that will affect all citizens of Serbia. It is clear to me that colleagues want to replicate each other through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I believe that today this session should have a different character and that we should be able to focus on these constitutional changes in the area of justice so that we know that it will be the best thing we have done for the citizens of Serbia who are following this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11125	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Electoral Group of Life Starčevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11126	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear Minister, Mrs Popovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not want to report to the Rules of Procedure, although I agree with my colleague, Milicevic, that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, but before I begin to discuss the subject, I will really have to refer to a number of evaluations she has given as the authorised representative of her parliamentary group, our fellow MP. It is said, firstly, that European integration is not a priority of this authority and that what we are doing, these constitutional changes are, behold, just to paraphrasise, not quote, some way for us to blur the eyes of the European Union on that European path. Of course that's not true. But you know what the difference is between this government and the predecessors and maybe the wishes of the representatives of that parliamentary group? We are taking a European path, but we do not want to go to the EU, but we want to go systematically and thoroughly. Maybe someone wants to crash into the EU. but the European path is the way to create serious system laws of state systems etc. And it's not the way to the crash, it's a systematic and thorough path. Secondly, here is a value assessment that members of national minorities are second-class citizens in our country, and I am really asking a question – and what is it that members of national minorities are second-class citizens in our country? Here we have two parliamentary groups who are representatives of the same national minority represented by a colleague who spoke and gave such a valuable position, who have a diametrically opposite view of it, who respect this country, who believe that they are respected by the state, who represent their own interests of national minorities and are successfully representing them and improving the quality of life of their citizens and are fighting for the quality of their citizens and participating in the work of the national authorities. In addition, national minorities' rights are at the highest possible level, the European Parliament's reports also say, after all, what Victor Orban's words are when it comes to the position of the Hungarian national minority and all other national minorities. We simply have no objections from abroad. The only objection that, that is, from the opposition parliamentary group, which without arguments gives some valuable estimates that do not stand at the very least, not to say they are a lie. Citing the Constitution of Montenegro, I know why the Constitution of Montenegro is so well-conceived - because of its identity problem, but we also have the constitutions of other republics. The Constitution of Slovenia, which is a member of the European Union, does not exist there. Well, is the Constitution of Slovenia more democratic when the issue of national minorities than Serbian? Well, of course not. So each state is sovereignly editing its constitution and position and peoples and national minorities, and indeed all of these values that were presented in the previous exhibition are not true. To move on to what I was going to say today. Today we are discussing a proposal for an act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal for a constitutional law implementing the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This continues the procedure we started, the procedure for changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the work concerning our judicial system. The procedure will be coronated by a referendum to be held on 16 January and by confirming the results of the referendum by this assembly, the existing National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This makes this assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also very important, because in addition to a series of very important laws that we have passed over the past year, we have succeeded in a year of convocation, this, the existing Assembly's convocation, or we will be able to make between the other and constitutional changes, which some previous co-habitations have failed. We of the JS believe that the principle of judicial independence is the central postulate of a democratic order based on the rule of law, but we believe that judicial independence is not a value for itself and is not and cannot be seen as a privilege of a branch of government but solely as an institutional means for the protection of human rights and freedoms. Given that these new constitutional solutions give a greater degree of independence to the judicial branch of the government, above all a higher degree of independence than the legislative authority, that is, from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because, by the existing Constitution, the judicial branch of the government is completely separate from the executive branch of the government and since this increased degree of independence of the judicial branch of the government can and should be an institutional means for the protection of human rights and freedoms, we from the JS will also support the draft act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a proposal for a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum in order to confirm the Act amending the Constitution. Two, to put it this way, are groups of reasons why we are changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the work concerning our judicial system. The first group of reasons is the one I have mentioned for a while, which is that these are the reasons relating to the accession and accession process of Serbia and the EU and the commitments undertaken by Serbia through the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and through the EU's negotiating framework for the Republic of Serbia, that we are harmonising our legal framework and the legislative framework with the EU's legislative framework and legal assets. The other reasons are above all that we, and they are much more important to us and more important to us are that we really want to edit our country in a quality and good way, to arrange our society, and therefore to regulate the justice system. We have also brought a strategy, a national strategy on judicial reform, which provides for five basic principles of judicial reform, which are independence, impartiality, expertise, accountability and efficiency of the judiciary, and in line with the fact that the Constitution has given some solutions which, as it would say, have been indeterminate and missing, and we are going to make these amendments, so to say, correct and correct, hence and the need to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the justice work. So we are not only doing this because of the EU, but rather because of better and better quality regulation and our judiciary that will make it more effective. The ruling majority has defined itself as a European path and insists on that path despite problems stemming first and foremost from double standards that often surface to the European policy area when it comes to Serbia. The European path and European standards are something that this ruling majority is seeking, of course, with the preservation of the elementary dignity of the Serbian state and the preservation of the most important state and national interests. The ruling majority and its representatives are not leading two policies, the one directed towards the domestic electoral body and the other, the external one that is directed towards the international community, as some have done before. Today's government policy is neither pro-Western, nor pro-Russian, this ruling majority is leading one policy and it is a pro-Serbian or Serbian policy. We have clearly set goals when it comes to state and national interests, clear goals in the development of our economy and living standards of the population. We tell the citizens in advance at which pace we will grow, at which rate their standard of living, which are the goals we aim at, etc. That is why these constitutional changes, too, are viewed exclusively as our, above all, Serbian interest. According to us from the Single Serbia of 29 amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as far as it contains an act amending the Constitution, the most important is Amendment 2 to Article 99 of the existing Constitution in whose third position changes the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, rather than electing the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Presidents of the Court, the Republic Prosecutor and Public Prosecutors, judges and deputy prosecutors, as it has so far stood in the Constitution. The National Assembly shall be competent to elect four members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and four members of the Supreme Public Prosecutor and to decide on the termination of his office. Let me make it simple. The National Assembly will no longer elect judges, but only four members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary from the ranks of prominent lawyers. The other six members and the chairman of the High Council of the judiciary will choose a profession. The same goes for prosecutors, or the High Council of the Prosecutors. This reduces jurisdiction in the area of justice to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a reflection of the will of the people. I would ask one question, since in the preamble of reading each judge's judgment so far read, in the name of the people, because they were elected by the representatives of the people, or by us MPs, will this preamble change, and say now, in the name of the law, or in the name of the basic or higher or any other court? But in any case, the amendment is a way to increase the level of the judicial branch of power from the legislative branch of power. For us also from Unity Serbia, Amendment 3 amending Article 105 is also important. The Constitution, with most of the two-thirds of the total number of MPs, so-called The qualified majority is elected by four members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and four members of the High Council of the Prosecutors, with a majority of three-fifths of the total number of MPs elected by the Supreme Public Prosecutor and deciding on the termination of his office. The Supreme Cassation Court is renamed Supreme Court by these amendments to the Constitution. The Supreme Council of the Judiciary will be elected instead of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will appoint representatives of the judges, and prosecutors and deputy prosecutors will be elected by the Prosecutor's Supreme Council. To visit and repeat. We can make and build here, and our goal is to make a better system, an ideal system for selecting judicial authorities, but to make this system the most ideal and to allow for the highest degree of independence of the holders of judicial functions, it can be devised for one simple reason, and that is not all the way to the system, but to the people, or to every single holder of the judicial function, to his expertise, to his moral control and principles and to other qualities. I've recently said, a good judge is the one who took an oath to judge by law and law. If he is committed to his work, professional and faithful oaths he has made, which he respects accepted values in society, such a judge was and will be independent in every judicial system. Those individuals, who are fortunately very few and look at their own personal and political interest in everything, will neither be independent judges, because they did not commit themselves to the right and sworn oath, but are bound to the personal interest or interest of the political option they support. In order to fully achieve this objective, an independent and impartial judiciary based on the basis of respect and protection of human rights, it is necessary that judges themselves contribute to this through their expertise, training and commitment. The Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives decided today and that the question at the referendum on constitutional changes is – are you in favour of laying down acts on amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? The question is clear and unequivocal, I would say a real referendum question to which citizens will decide with a simple yes or no answer. The constitutional law implementing the Act amending the Constitution is defined as applying the amendments from 1 to 29 from the date on which they are declared by the National Assembly and this law provides that the judicial laws comply with the amendments within one year of the date of entry into force of the amendments. Courts and prosecutors continue to work until judicial regulations governing their work, jurisdiction and organisations are in force. The same goes for the VSS, as for the state's chief prosecutor. The deadlines for the election of the VSS, as well as the VST, as well as for the presidents of these bodies, are also being arranged. Of course, the deadlines are for the VSS and the VST to be established and elected within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the laws determining their work and organisation, and the Presidents of the Courts 15 days from the day of the constitution of these bodies, if I am not mistaken and if I understand correctly. Also, judges who have been elected to their post permanently retain their status, and judges who have been elected for up to three years will be considered to have been elected permanently to their post. Once again, with these constitutional changes and this act, we are not only approaching Serbia's EU, but first of all, we better regulate our judicial system and the justice system. Therefore, to conclude the JS feels it is good that we end this job that we have started, which we will present for our mandate in a year and of course the JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of all these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11127	Thank you. Replica, Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11128	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Just to clarify, my colleague Starcevic mentioned me, so for that reason, I had a basis for replication, and to explain. When I point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I address you as the chairman. I had a moment of replication and a basis for replication, because I was asked a question, which is why I was answering my colleague. I just wanted to try to simplify things, and my colleague was throwing things away, so I had to answer. What are you going to do, colleagues, see all over the pressure. You have to answer, you have to manage. So what I'm trying to say is that I'm just referring to what my colleague Starcevic said, and he said he agrees with what he was saying. It doesn't occur to us from the SPS that this is how we kill, as someone said, political points, but you know how, this is the highest body of the legislative authority and we're not talking about history here. We're talking about laws here and we're talking first of all, I explicitly and in principle insist on respecting the Constitution of the Republic. I repeat, the Constitution of the Republic, the oaths we took as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's our responsibility and it's our responsibility. There are no citizens of second order in the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is the only country where members of national minorities have the opportunity to express all their characteristics. We have 23 national minorities, 23 national councils, the National Minorities Act. Here's the point of something else. Yes with 0.3% or 0. 4% of the votes instead of the secretary of state have a minister, Serbia would not be your stepmom, but would be your mother again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11129	Thank you, colleague, and for this criticism from the beginning. He was a public worker, he was talking to a colleague, but he was talking to a colleague on the side. That's why I warned you. I respect the Rules of Procedure as much as you do. The president of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11130	Thank you, Vice President. A respected minister, co-workers and colleagues, the most important pillar on which each country is based, and on which it is successfully functioning, are its institutions. The degree of trust that citizens have in these institutions depends directly and on the development of each country. Today, when we talk about these constitutional amendments to the judiciary, it is in fact this debate that we are talking about a very important institutional framework in which Serbian citizens should trust. We have an easy task ahead of us, and we have a big responsibility when we talk about a subject like this. With constitutional amendments, we want to strengthen our judicial system as one guarantee of the rule of law and the rule of law. One of the reasons that is often stated in the public and that we heard during the public debate when it comes to constitutional amendments is that in this way we are removing the shortcomings contained in the Constitution that was adopted in 2006 and which is in force today. Our goal is to achieve in practice the highest level of the basic constitutional principle, which is the principle of rule of law, which includes also the achievement of the original principle of dividing the authorities into legislative, executive and judicial and attaining the principle of independence of the judiciary. I must say that since the Middle Ages, Serbia has had elements of the rule of law. Many of the provisions of Dusan's code, which was a congressional Serbian law, were according to their material content of constitutional character. The most frequently cited provisions were and applied to the impartiality and independence of judges and courts, even from the opinion of the emperor. Another reason that has often been cited during the public debate on constitutional amendments and their changes was that constitutional changes are necessary because of our Eurointegration, i.e. to bring our legal framework, our legislation, into line with EU legislation. Constitutional changes are necessary because of our EU accession, but they should not be the main motive why we are discussing them today. Our motive should be to improve our judicial system, to improve our legal framework, to serve all citizens of Serbia without exception. The aim should also be to levelen judicial practice, which guarantees the equality of citizens before the law and should provide this equality to just the judicial authorities. Constitutional changes relate primarily to the area of justice, as I said at the outset, that is, to the part concerning the choice of judicial functions. It's one area that's always been under public scrutiny, primarily because of its significance, because anyone who makes a decision regarding justice and justice is expected to rule without error. The objectives are defined and are in line with our strategy. The aim is also to allow changes to be made to the judiciary on the basis of objective criteria, based on fair procedures and to allow the open judiciary to be for all candidates who meet the criteria prescribed by both the Constitution and the law. There was one complaint by the Venice Commission concerning that trial period of judges, chosen by the judges under the current constitution, first for three years, and then foreordained the continuity of their functions. I think that the current solutions provided for by the constitutional amendment are good and that they remove any doubt about this particular category of continuity of the judge's office. I believe that the election is an adequate way to determine a commission to elect candidates when there is no qualified majority in the National Assembly. Obviously, most of the two-thirds of the MPs or three-fifths in the second case can sometimes be very problematic, may come if there is no broad social consensus and consensus of political parties, and the election of certain candidates in the National Assembly is blocked. That is why it is important that we have a fair model for selecting board members who will choose candidates who are running for judicial office. It is also necessary that judicial authorities, courts, prosecutors, be further strengthened. But that on the other hand means that we expect them to have greater responsibility when making decisions. We all agree that there is a need to ensure greater independence and independence of the judicial authority and to exclude the possibility of political influence on the choice of judges. In line with this, we managed, when the Working Group agreed with members of the Venice Commission. Of course, the Venice Commission is an advisory body, not their opinion binding, but it was still useful instructions that helped us find a balance between European legal standards and our national legislation, or constitutional solutions in this particular case. There is always someone who can object to the proposed changes to constitutional amendments, but it is undeniable to strive to reach the widest consensus. At first, it was said that in the months behind us a good job had been done, that a large number of public hearings had been organised, and above all I can commend the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law on behalf of the National Assembly and the Ministry of Justice, which represented the interests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In these public hearings, we could hear criticisms, we could hear certain suggestions, and everyone could show what he disagreed with the proposal and remove any confusion. I will remind you that this included representatives of the Society of Judges, the professional public, the civil sector, as well as MPs who had the opportunity to attend and participate in the work of these public hearings. When I said at the beginning that responsibility is great, it is not easy to remove any failure when we talk about constitutional amendments, because when something enters into the Constitution, this current procedure shows us how difficult it is to change the Constitution, that we need a two-thirds majority in the Assembly, that we have to go to the referendum. So when we talk about a specific case, changes are such that they involve more responsibility than when we talk about laws. At one of the public hearings, we heard criticism that came from representatives of the Serbian Society that now might not be a good time to initiate this procedure, to enter into the procedure of constitutional amendments to the Constitution, but I think we have shown in time that such criticism was not in place since it was then said that deadlines cannot take precedence over content. I think we've received one quality proposal, that it's contained adequate constitutional changes and obviously that the deadline was not a limiting factor and that there was enough time to comply with all the procedures and find adequate solutions that hopefully would be long-term. The quality solutions we are talking about in this area should be in the position of meeting the needs of all citizens of Serbia, then in the function of meeting the needs of people working in the judiciary and, of course, in line with standards that apply to EU Member States. So, the primary goal is to depolitise the judiciary, strengthen judicial independence and strengthen the prosecution's independence. Historically, the independence of the judges was one of the first requirements they faced, i.e. the citizens of Europe in an effort to ensure their own freedoms, the independent action of the judges must be guaranteed and one of the first such documents from 1215 "Magna Carta libertatum", and later "Habeas corpus Act" witnessed. I will remind you that later in the Declaration of the Rights of Men and Citizens of 1789, it was stated that any society in which no guarantee of law is provided and no division of power has been established, there is no constitution at all. One such thought came about exactly that and the motive for its creation was to limit the absolute power of the rulers, specifically in this case in France, and the same motive was later taken over when we in Serbia brought the first modern constitution, the Sretenj Constitution in 1835. Unfortunately, this document, written by Dimitrij Davidovic, lasted only 58 days, but remained to be mentioned as one symbol of the modern development of constitutionality in the Republic of Serbia. 15 years ago, the Assembly declared a new constitution that is still in force today. Basically, he did not change the political system when we speak in principle, except that Serbia from the Federation has become an independent state. From the moment the Constitution was passed, until today, there was criticism on its contents. I think we will now remove some of these criticisms from these constitutional amendments. Simply, the fact is that it is necessary to change certain constitutional members as a result of social change. I believe that the question that is often raised in public, whether it is necessary to bring such constitutional amendments, is unnecessary. That's just as necessary. I think we as the ruling coalition, we as part of that coalition took one responsibility and now we are on the right track to achieve that goal. I will remind you that Serbia has always had one of the best constitutions in Europe, but it didn't just happen. Simply, we adapted to social change, as we now adapt to social change, we listen to events in Europe, in the world. Of course, that's how we react now. The partial revision of the Constitution, which is now on the agenda, is as difficult and equally responsible as when the new Constitution is adopted and requires a truly responsible and careful approach. The proposal to change constitutional standards, which is in front of MPs today, aims to strengthen judicial independence and prosecutorial independence, as I said. When we received suggestions from the Venice Commission, they referred to the possible involvement of legislative and executive authorities in the choice of judges under the current circumstances. I think it's only now that you've removed such a single flaw. In this context, too, the issue of relations between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities was raised. So these three branches of government are independent. We now want to remove any doubt about their relationship, to clearly define their connection, but to define control. So each of these branches of government must cooperate with each other, but there must be control that is precisely defined by the Constitution. With constitutional changes, we're setting up a balance. The impact of policy must be excluded in the professional section, but that professional part, i.e. the profession, must not be without any control mechanisms and become a system for itself, so as not to account for its work. So, even though we are submitting these constitutional amendments, we must bear in mind that every branch of government draws legitimacy from the people. Thus, the judicial authority must not apply an esnafic principle of decision and conduct in that area. We can't even say that when we bring the Constitution, or change it, that we've solved all the problems. It is necessary to cultivate certain principles in the judiciary. This is the principle of justice, and any judge who cultivates such a principle in itself means that they will treat the same, unequal to the unequal. The basic prerequisite that he has such a way of acting is to preserve his independence and his objectivity. The proposed constitutional amendments are a condition for further reform of Serbia's judicial system and the result of this process should be solid constitutional pillars around which laws will be further built. In the decision-making process on the amendment of the Constitution, the National Assembly and voters also take part directly through the referendum. It speaks of a high degree of firmness of change in the Constitution. So we will now be in the Assembly, and we have, of course, that majority, to vote on the proposed constitutional amendments, but they will be confirmed at the referendum. A date for that will be set later. I expect citizens to recognize the importance of constitutional changes and to come to the referendum and thus give all together the legitimacy of these changes with one change. Maybe this topic isn't attractive enough, but I'll remind you that justice is somehow always like health, so let's remember it when we miss it. Therefore, I call on the citizens of Serbia to come to the referendum and support constitutional changes that we, hopefully, will adopt here today. For that, of course, we need a promotion in the media, a frequent conversation with citizens, to show in a picturesque way what it means in real life. Given that the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines our country as a country based on the rule of law and social justice, on the principles of civil democracy, human and minority rights and freedoms, that we are attached to the values of heritage in developed European countries, all these principles are contained in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia programme and therefore we support all these changes that are on the agenda today. It is not only about entering this procedure to change the Constitution, it is about finding quality legal solutions, and when we find them to be applied in practice. That is, our mission and after this will be to bring the Constitution into the lives of the citizens. The Constitution is a symbol of national unity, and we should apply accordingly to such a single subject. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia today, I hope, if it is a day for voting, will support the proposed constitutional amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11131	Thank you. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11132	I thank Vice President Yevdzic. Dear Minister Popovic, honourable fellow MPs, we have before us three important acts tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly. I would like to point out immediately, the PUPS Group "Three P" as... Chairman, let me just ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11133	I'd like some attention from my colleagues, please, to listen to my colleague Stefan.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11134	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to stress immediately, the PUPS Parliamentary Group "Tri P" as a club of state, national and socially responsible parties, such as PUPS, will vote in favour of all three of the acts mentioned. The act's proposal explained very clearly both groups of reasons for the adoption of this Act on the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The first group of reasons are politically strategic, and they are linked to Serbia's previously defined path towards European integration, which necessarily require legal reform, and in the first place constitutional reform to bring our country's legal system into line with the European Union's legal system, but also to meet the highest number of European standards and achieve the appropriate level of rule of law. The second group of reasons is domestically ours, therefore, strictly constitutional-legal. These reasons are based on the weaknesses of that part of the constitutional text, which in the 2006 Constitution refers to the judiciary and, in part, the need to achieve a higher level of achievement in practice, the fundamental constitutional principle of rule of law, which is a consistent and implemented division of power, independence of the judiciary and judicial protection by the Constitution of guaranteed human rights and freedoms. The PUPS parliamentary group also shares the caution of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, who said these changes are being done primarily and on the Venice Commission's initiative. President Vukic explained this best through a message he sent to the so-called pro-European opposition protesting against the referendum law. The president said the law is based precisely on the European Union and the Venice Commission rules. So this is about serious changes, and if it will lead us to a more efficient and independent judiciary, that citizens will move faster and easier to achieve their right and achieve justice, then the PUPS Group's MP raises his hand for these acts proposals. It is good that according to the proposal of this Constitutional Law on the Harmonisation of the Law on Judges, the Law on the Regulation of Courts, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the High Council of the Court and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, therefore, is left for the purposes of harmonising with the amendments from 1 to 29 a year from the date of entry into force of these amendments. It is also very important that the courts and public prosecutors, the High Council of the judiciary, the State Major Prosecutors, Judges and Prosecutors continue to carry out their duties until the regulations that their powers and organisations comply with these constitutional amendments enter into force. Today, the honourable fellow People's Messengers, and the feast, the feast of St. Gregory the Wondermaker, to whom many miracles are attributed, and also to another Moses. He treated his people's torments and hardships, and according to his persecutors and enemies, he was invisible, predicting events, protecting them from sickness and evil, listening and fulfilling the wishes of those who believed. Let us hope that on this very day, our hand raised and our vote for these constitutional changes will indeed be on the line for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11135	Thank you. Please, colleagues, just a moment of attention. The word has been made by the MP of the SPS. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11136	Thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal to change the work of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning the area of justice. I think our board of directors has done a big job in the past, along with the Justice Department, and made a good proposal that I really expect today to be confirmed by a two-thirds majority and that the referendum will be supported by citizens. Today, we have 29 amendments from the judiciary and all these amendments have the same goal, which is to improve the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and to increase the legal security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, when we talk about changing the Constitution in this part, we all point out more or less, and it is written in the light of this act, we say that there are two groups of reasons – political-strategic and constitutional-legal reasons, including our strategic commitment to the European path and strengthening the rule of law and a stable and democratic environment. When we talk about constitutional law, we are talking about the weakness of the 2006 Constitution, which concerns justice and our desire to achieve a higher level of achievement in the practice of the rule of law, which is also one of the fundamental constitutional principles and refers to the orderly and enforceable division of power, independence of the judiciary, judicial protection by the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms. We must mention that more important than these two, I will call them, the formal reasons for changing the Constitution is the first one I pointed out at the beginning of my presentation, which is the need to improve the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and the legal certainty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because no formal solutions will mean anything to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia unless those solutions really enable the judiciary, the judiciary and the prosecution to accomplish all of their essential functions in their content. Namely, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we look at this whole of ours, let me say, part of the reasons for the change in the work of members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerning the judiciary, we are also talking about international documents, both domestic needs and the 2008 Stabilisation and Association Agreement, where we have committed ourselves to agreeing, harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Serbia with the legal assets of the European Union, with the beginning of negotiations with the European Union. In the framework of the negotiation process, we have a special chapter on the rule of law, which is constantly mentioned as extremely important, and it is important, and that this chapter and how it should be arranged together with the European Commission and the Commission for Democracy through the rights of the Council of Europe, known as the Venice Commission. I am pleased that Minister Popovic has pointed out several times today that the talks with the Venice Commission have been very fruitful and that the Venice Commission has given a positive opinion on the changes to the Constitution that we are discussing today. This does not mean, of course, that the Venice Commission may have fully agreed with all our proposals or that we have fully accepted all the views of the Venice Commission, given that there is also a specificity of our legal system and certainly, in relation to the proposed solutions, found those rights of relations to be the best solutions. I think it is important to note, because we have some previous experience that the Venice Commission has not consulted before, and unfortunately not since the adoption of the Constitution, as was the 2006 Constitution. Maybe that's why those solutions aren't so good. I have to mention a few principles that are essential to me today's debate on justice – that the legal order in the Republic of Serbia is unique, that the government's regulation rests on the legislative, executive and judicial division, that the relationship of three branches of government is based on mutual verification and balance, which is also part of the normative solution to these amendments. I have to mention this for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand the importance of all these changes. I am particularly emphasising the principles that the National Strategy for Justice Reform promoted in 2013 and 2018, which are independence, impartiality, expertise, accountability and efficiency. With these changes we really want to meet all these set goals, to have both independent and impartial, and professionally, and responsibly, and effective justice. We have so far failed to meet all these goals. That's why we end up making these changes. What matters to me is – it seems to me that these solutions of the Serbian Parliament have managed to find a measure, i.e. the proposal for this act has managed to find a measure between mutual verification and balance. I think that needs to be explained. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the largest legislative body, passed laws in the field of justice, means all that is related to the judiciary will be the subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and we will be in a position to discuss the work of the judiciary, all the problems we face. In addition, if I may say so, the Assembly will have its four representatives, i.e. representatives of prominent lawyers, who will be part of the High Council of the judiciary and the High Council of Prosecutors, which we will choose from eight candidates. This in itself adds that the Assembly will be able to discuss the judiciary, the work, and the category of checks indirectly, that there is an absolute balance. We create a legal framework on which the judiciary should prove itself, to show that it is both independent and impartial, and professional, and responsible and effective. We've been in a situation so far that we can figure it out. Of course, I have to mention the third branch of government, it's executive power. The executive government is creating a basis for the work of the judiciary. If it is to be pointed out, it should be pointed out what is specifically changing these amendments. Namely, the role of the Assembly in these amendments has been reduced to the selection of four members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, eight candidates are proposed. The role of the National Assembly has been reduced to the selection of four members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, eight candidates are also proposed. The election of the chief public prosecutor, the Assembly elects him and decides on the termination of his post and discusses responsibility, not on individual cases, but on overall responsibility. I think that's good. Why do I mention-- I think she's fine? After 2000, we had several changes in judicial reform and we are not satisfied. We are not satisfied, nobody is satisfied, neither are we satisfied as citizens, we are not satisfied with the judiciary, we are not satisfied with the international public, we are not generally satisfied and that is why we are changing these amendments. But we need to see one simple question later – what causes such a situation in the judiciary. Does the judiciary really have all the conditions for its work? Are there perhaps no relevant laws regarding the area of justice that do not give the legal basis for them to work successfully, are there any problems within the judiciary that prevents the judiciary from being effective, to be impartial, to decide at last about everything, what's the reason? I can't help but mention the objectively large changes that were made after 2000, the Dossier Authority executed a single cut, if I can use that term, in the area of the judiciary, changing people from the judiciary, starting with political criteria. I was a member of the Justice Committee at the time, and I know for sure that history in a stenogram from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia where I made it very clear that the DOS then chose for people in the judiciary, who unfortunately had an average of between seven and 12 years of age, an average of six and seven and a half, with honorary exceptions of eight. If they had chosen people who were not from the judiciary at all, but worked in the administrations, they had worked in some public enterprises or local self-governments and so on. It was important to bring someone, replace some people, and probably get their own thinkers, idolaters, or I don't know what, their levers in the area of justice. That's what we have to get in the way of. Even future reforms should not be forgotten. It was all done in some subsequent reforms, too, saying that the text of the law relating to the judiciary was brought together with the consent of the relevant bodies of the European Union or the Venice Commission. I bring this up very consciously. Why? Because I think these solutions are good. These solutions will indeed finally show where we have a problem and I think these solutions create a good basis for solving the problem, for judges to be truly independent and independent and to decide on the basis of the fact that there is no political interference, because now the High Council of the Judiciary will choose judges, not even her, to say a provision that has so far been chosen by the National Assembly for the first time by judges in three years, that she does not exist. Now simply, the High Council of the Judiciary will be someone, when we talk about the judges, the High Council of the Judiciary will be someone most competent for the judiciary and most responsible for the state of the judiciary. We will no longer be able to raise that question, spread responsibility and be in the fog. Simply from now on, in the future, when these amendments are adopted and become part of the law, and according to constitutional provisions, laws will be passed in the next period, the responsibility of the High Council of the judiciary and the responsibility of the High Council of the Prosecutors will be precisely known. I've noticed in the structure of both bodies that there's one small difference, the waist is absolutely dominant. First of all, the Supreme Council of the judiciary has six judges, four representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary are prominent lawyers proposed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the 11th member of the Supreme Court. If I may say so, seven versus one in favor of the profession, and I think that's good. What we don't know right now, but as the National Assembly, we're sure to make sure that these representatives from the ranks of prominent lawyers are really people who represent prominent lawyers. A prominent lawyer alone as a notion can mean a lot. They can also be university professors, they can also be people from other areas associated with legal sciences and the legal system, simply someone who has at least 10 years of employment because it's mentioned as a condition. It is also mentioned that the law will prescribe additional provisions relating to the conditions that this prominent lawyer should have so that he could be a candidate, and we will be in a position to choose four members from eight candidates. When it comes to the High Council of the D.A.'s office, there's a slightly different structure. We have five public prosecutors elected by the Attorney General and the Attorney General. We have four prominent lawyers who will be elected by the National Assembly of eight candidates, we have the Supreme Public Prosecutor and we have the Minister of Justice. I think it's a perfectly logical relationship, and I think the connection between the judiciary and the D.A. and the D.A.'s Department of Justice is, let me say, more functionally more pronounced than the judicial authority. I think it's good, and I've seen through solutions about a person who is president of one or another council, or vice president, trying to make that balance that has been declared in the amendments, and hopefully after the referendum, I don't, but I absolutely expect citizens to support these changes, and then we can say that we respect the principle of balance, that the president in both cases and the High Council of the Prosecutors, will be of the order of judges, or prosecutors, and that the vice president will be one of the prominent lawyers. The mandate of members of the High Council takes five years and one and the other, but the prosecutor's term of office takes six years and should also be mentioned. I am pleased to have found a lot of material in the extension for the adoption of this act, to be honest, which was very valuable to me and I think both to our committee and to the Ministry of Justice should thank for all this argument they offered through the documents we received, because we were also able to get acquainted with the views of the Venice Commission on some issues, which is very valuable. We can gain accurate insight into how the Venice Commission reacts to the proposals we are discussing. The citizen also works as a confirmation of the seriousness, mentioning the opinion of the Venice Commission in 2018 when he mentions that the High Council of Prosecutors cannot be an instrument of clean self-government but rather draws its democratic legitimacy from the election of at least one part of the members of parliament. What he's saying is, he's involving absolutely towards these solutions. I am pleased that these amendments also provide for the possibility that in the case of a dysfunctional relationship, prominent lawyers should not be elected in the Assembly for what reason, that the possibility of a special commission being formed again made by the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Public Prosecutor, the Citizens' Protector, who then decides to vote most of the votes on the election of prominent lawyers. So it means four plus four. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to say a few more words at the end of my presentation. Of course, in our history, to say constitutional development, we had more examples of changes in the Constitution. I wouldn't look back on it. I think it's a good thing that we're talking about this act today and I think it's a good thing that we're going to adopt these amendments to change the Constitution and that citizens will accept it at the referendum. The Ministry of Justice remains a big business because, if you have seen the obligations that follow after the adoption of these amendments both today and in the referendum, there is an obligation for the ministry to propose in the next year a number of laws that will regulate closer conditions for the selection of judges and judges of jurors, then which are functions, jobs or private interests that are incompatible with the function of the judge and judge of jurors, which are conditions for the selection and incompatibility with the functions of members of the High Council elected by the National Assembly. I want there to be a lot of things that will be settled by law, which will further enrich this matter legally, but also help to make the judiciary more effective. We adopt the Constitutional Amendments and you know that the provisions of the Constitution must be clear, but also enough, to say, in some cases general that they can be distributed later by law. The Justice Department is waiting for a big job, but I think we have taken a big, big step in that direction and I hope that we in Serbia will have a better one. I expect we'll have a better one. I'm saying, we've finally broken up this relationship that may have existed by now as an excuse why the judiciary isn't effective. I think now people in the judiciary are going to have to look themselves in the face and say really who doesn't work and who doesn't work or doesn't meet all the conditions that the High Council of the judiciary and the High Council of the Prosecutors can work. I mention this because I was in a situation after 2000, in the conversations that the committee had with the leaders of the judiciary then, to ask a simple question – when it happened that, in the case of the case, someone who doesn't do his job, who doesn't come to work, who doesn't God do something contrary to the law, who in different ways obstructs the work of a man, the leading people in the judiciary, and why does citizens suffer? I think that with these solutions and the laws that follow, we will fully regulate and finally get the judiciary, and I hope that what we are doing will also be assessed by the European Commission regarding our negotiating process, given that they have not yet assessed this, that this will speed up our path to the EU. We all want to live in a democratic state, share the democratic values of this area of Europe and have an efficient society and have citizens that the state cares about. With these amendments and the laws that follow, I am fully convinced that that will be the case, and these are all the reasons why the SPS will vote for this document and vote, of course, for the referendum when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11137	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Balin Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11138	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representative of the Justice Ministry, what we are doing today, is done once in 10 or even 20 years not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also in parallel watching. Parliament is not only a representative legislative body, it is also a constitutionalist. In many countries, entire generations pass without members of parliament being able to discuss the adoption or amendment of the constitution. For example, in the United States over 200 years, the same constitution has been in force. It is that it has been replaced several thirty times, but this constitution has been valid since 1787. And in Europe, if we look at the example of Belgium, Norway or some other countries, centuries go by and the Constitution is practically intact. I'm saying all of this because I'd like to give meaning to what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is doing today. It can't be said for Serbia that she didn't have much of a constitution in her history. This summer, when we discussed the Constitution's proposal for a change, and I talked about how much Serbia had in the past and we counted that this 2006 Constitution was 16. The Constitution. The first was Sretenjski from 1835, so the Turkish Constitution from 1838, and the Deputy Constitution in 1869, and the Radical Constitution in 1888, and the Oktroiran Constitution in 1901, and in 1903 again the new Constitution, returned to the Constitution in 1888, and in 1921 the Vidovdan Constitution, then in 1931 the Oktroiran Constitution, then in 1946, but in the time of the Socialist Yugoslavia, namely the DFJ, and later in 1953 the Constitutional Law, then in 1963, and then in 1947, then in 1990, in 1992 the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in 2003 the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia and Montenegro and in 2006 the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, today valid, which we are changing, i.e. still the process of constitutional audit, since the last court will give citizens at the referendum in the coming of January. So today we are doing something that has happened several times in Serbia in the last almost two centuries, but it is something that is not common and something that is not daily. It is therefore very important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discusses an act on amending the Constitution. The Constitution is the highest legal act in every country. It regulates the basics of social and social life, and that's why it's significant. As for the procedure, I would now like to talk a little bit about the procedure precisely because it is the highest legal act and precisely because it is at the top of the hierarchy of legal acts not only in Serbia, but everywhere in the civilised world in the legal states of the Constitution. The process of change is harder than it is in the case of ordinary laws. In our case, we fully respected this procedure. I'd like to compare this current situation to the one that was in 2006, when the constitution was still in force. At the time, however, there was a consensus of three then largest political parties, the most influential political parliamentary parties. I can say the names, I won't cause a replica because none of them are parliamentary today. They are the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Democratic Party. That's how things change. Only 15 years have passed and those most influential political parties in this meeting have no MPs, but at that time, 15 years ago, these parties were the most convincing ones. The Grand Duchy of Hungarians didn't have any MPs in this assembly. It was the only call in the past 25 years when we had no MPs, so we couldn't even talk about the Constitution proposal back then in 2006, but there was a consensus between these three largest political parties. This, however, was no excuse for not having an organised public debate, that the profession was not consulted. However, some lawyers, university professors, participated in the writing of the constitutional text. We know exactly who they were, but at the same time they were high officials of these parties that I was just talking about and none of them were constitutional lawyers. There was a professor of administrative law, there was a professor of bond law, but no professor of constitutional law at the time was in that circle that had a decisive impact on what text we would have for the Constitution. Unlike that process, unlike that process, when there was no public debate and consultation of the profession, everything was happening differently now. And I'm sure that this text, regardless of some metrics, which I'm going to talk about, is better and better, and the whole procedure is certainly more democratic. I, if possible, avoid certain words such as transparency and inclusiveness, which are mentioned daily and very modern, but surely this Constitution, this text of constitutional changes will be more quality than the text we still have for the Constitution today, which was adopted in 2006. The public debate has been organised in several circles, in several places, in various phases of the constitutional audit. We had public debates before the National Assembly entered constitutional changes in the constitutional audit. Afterwards, we had a series of public debates following the adoption of the two-thirds majority proposal to change the Constitution here in the National Assembly, and all the time the founder was in contact with the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission is the advisory body of the Council of Europe and, in these modern times, the country in transition can hardly bring the Constitution without consulting and obtaining a positive opinion from the Venice Commission. It is a very significant limiting factor for the National Assembly, as a constitutionalist, according to our Constitution in the Republic of Serbia, but it is not something that is unique only to Serbia, but is unique to all countries in our region, the former Socialist countries. But what's important is that we get an absolutely positive opinion from the Venice Commission on this text that we're discussing today. I also want to say that these constitutional changes concern only the position of the judiciary. This cannot be different because it exclusively applied to those members of the Constitution and a proposal to change the constitution, which arrived in the Parliament from the government on December 4th last year. I'm saying this because we from the SVM in the past 15 years have spoken on many occasions about how the Constitution should be changed and that these changes should be comprehensive, there should be some parts, which parts of us today won't and we can't change, or we can't have an impact on that. This summer, when we discussed the Constitution's amendment and talked about some parts despite, that is, the fact that there was no public debate 15 years ago, precisely because the constitutional and legal science was not consulted. The current constitution today, unfortunately, has some drawbacks, and we have missed the opportunity to correct these shortcomings. On many occasions, I have also talked about this, and that is not my word, I gently formulate my sentences, that our constitutional law has been given to Professor Ratko Markovic about this Constitution, now in force, has written that the most illiterate constitution in the constitutional history of the Republic of Serbia. And we saw that this is 16. The Constitution. So, there's a lot of fierce competition, and of those 16 constitutions, according to Professor Markovic, this current constitution is the most illiterate. This Constitution mixes the concepts of property and property. Every first year of law student knows what the difference is. There's a variety of colics inside the text, contradictions. In one place, it is said that international agreements should be in line with the Constitution, secondly it says that international agreements should not be contrary to the Constitution. Once again, lawyers know, they shouldn't be a doctor of legal science, that they're not synonyms, they're not the same things. There are various other mistakes that are not, i.e. the correction of which should not represent a political problem, i.e. should not be a question with political connotation. I'm not talking about changing the preamble. I'm not talking about sensitive questions here. I'm talking about the chance, unfortunately, to be missed, but that chance is not missed today, but it was missed a year ago, when a proposal for a change of constitution arrived in the assembly procedure, which was clearly assigned to the National Assembly which parts could change the Constitution, and all other parts of the Constitution should be intact. When I speak to a greater extent politically, I will also say that in 2015, when the Working Group for the Reform of the Political System was formed in this National Assembly, there are also shortcomings in the work on human and minority rights. Of course, we stand for the broader powers of the AP Vojvodina, but all of this can't be a topic today. Only, since we're still discussing the Constitution, and since it happens once in 10 or 20 years, I want to say it again, and say we're waiting for a new opportunity and a new chance that will come one day, so hopefully we'll change these parts of the Constitution too. I was talking about procedure, I was talking about how constitutional law science was consulted. I think it should also be said in this place that the very valuable work of Professor Vladan Petrov, who has been part of the Working Group all along, as well as researchers from the Institute of Comparative Law, as well as professors from some other law schools. And thanks to the public debates, everyone was able to express their opinion in the various public debates held in the past almost a year, as I said the proposal had arrived in the procedure on December 4th. So we've been dealing with this issue for almost a year. I also want to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Jeleni Zaric Kovacevic, who has been at the helm of this job here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the metrics are concerned, as far as concrete solutions are concerned, they've already been spoken of in today's session. As far as the issue is concerned, constitutional changes concern only the position of the judiciary, i.e. the depoliticalisation of the judiciary, as we have heard on many occasions. I would like to say immediately that we will vote in favour of the Constitutional Amendment Act. At first glance, it certainly seems that the judicial system will be more effective and that the judiciary will be more independent, but we will only in practice see if that is the case. I don't mean the influence of the National Assembly or the Government, but I mean the influence of some other social factors. We live in modern times, and I'm not sure that the elimination of the National Assembly as a representative body from the election process of judges that we will have a more independent judiciary, because whether the judiciary is independent or not independent, or whether it is less independent, it is no longer dependent solely on whether the National Assembly has jurisdiction or has no jurisdiction. As you know, even in the case of the media, whether some media is independent or less independent, it does not depend solely on whether the state has a stake or does not have a share, whether the state affects editorial policy or does not affect editorial policy, because many can influence and do so. Again, on the other hand, the rule of law has become one term that allows certain countries to be disciplined. We have seen this in cases of Poland, Hungary and some other EU countries. So, of course, the judiciary should be independent. We, in the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, certainly, have since our founding the principles of liberal and democratic constitutionality and, of course, we have advocated the rule of law. I just wanted to say that things are, unfortunately, a little bit more complicated and that I'm not sure that by eliminating the National Assembly from the selection process of the judge-holders, things are going to be much better than they were 10 years ago or they were before. It is certainly good that continuity will be the principle of absolute importance. It's a good thing there's no re-election. It's a good thing there won't be a three-year term. And I didn't say what I said in the criticism of the text itself. The text is definitely quality. I said what I said in relation to some expectations from the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe or the EU, because I find that to some extent hypocritical because we today have EU countries in which not a legislative, not a representative body, not a parliament, but an executive power elects judges. The citizens should know that, but we will vote for these constitutional changes, namely the draft act amending the Constitution. We hope for some relatively recent new changes, because this constitution needs and has to be done and we will, of course, invite our voters and supporters to vote on 16 January, when there will be a referendum, to vote for these constitutional changes, because sovereignty belongs to the citizens and the last word is theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11139	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament Group. Now in the capacity of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11140	Thank you, Chairman. Dear guests of the National Assembly gallery, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is a significant day for us, a significant day for our country. Today we will show what changes we are prepared for, what denials and that we are absolutely committed to achieving the goals we are handling, with the intention of making Serbia's citizens better in every sense, even when we talk about the area of justice. Behind the proposal to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this area that stands before us today, there is a lot of work, a lot of meetings, sessions, working groups, public hearings, public inclusion in the broadest possible sense, and I think that we are going to end up doing the best we can today, so that we can go to judicial reform. Today is a special day in which we will begin to write pages of modern political history. Today is the day we will be proud of when future generations of our pawnage and our work will be taught, because the reforms we are carrying out will depend on our country. How large the role of this congregation’s assembly can be concluded also because of the fact that, since the multiparty has been represented in our country for the last 30 years, such a procedure has been carried out in 1990, 2006, so today. Whether or not we should have gone into these changes sooner or later, we can discuss this, but what is important is that at this point there is a political will set forth in order to improve our legislation, to make the judiciary more detailed, to introduce a European postulate into the functioning of our judicial system. All of us who participated in this process were tasked with reaching an absolute political and social consensus, because that is the only way we can be sure that we have come to the citizens of Serbia with a proposal that is good precisely because of the historical responsibility we will bear. It wasn't easy to carry out this procedure. The working group had a difficult task of introducing the changes being complementary to other parts of the Constitution, of the paper being in line with our legislation, and of still fulfilling the obligations we have made for full membership in the EU and of being able to properly implement the rules applicable in European countries. Among other things, the session of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee with representatives of the extra-parliamentary opposition was also convened because of the reaching of the widest consensus. The only species of that kind certainly in this congregation, and I would say in previous National Assembly meetings if it wasn't a practice. Why do I think this is of great importance? Why do I think this is good? First, we heard the different attitudes of those who responded to the call, and secondly we saw who refused to come without thought and thus made it clear to the citizens of Serbia that they were not interested in important political issues, i.e. issues of great importance for Serbia in any case. Bosko Obradovic made an impression on himself that he was interested in being in the transitional government or in discussing election conditions that were only about to be made public by the Serbian and SNS that we would all vote for him. Those are the kinds of concessions. Lutovac also issued a statement publicly opposed to participating in a dialogue on constitutional changes. To my soul, it's my impression that he doesn't know exactly what this whole thing means. In any case, it is unfortunate that individuals from this extraparliamentary opposition, from extraparliamentary opposition lines, are building a story on the untruths and are disinformationing citizens that constitutional changes in the area of justice are just a front for something that we will do under the grain, which we will hide, which we will agree, that we will cast out a preamble concerning our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, how today we will use this session to deceive the people and through constitutional changes concerning the judiciary we have not met with the public. None of the above will be done today, as constitutional changes concern only the areas of justice. Yesterday, we were able to see how through certain media, disinformation is spread and false when it comes to extremely important issues, what is the referendum issue. We MPs from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law are here to explain to the citizens what this is about. It is our duty to act at any moment when someone is misleading them, because we are their representatives here in the National Assembly, in which they have trust, which I hope, I am quite sure of in April. In fact, some media reported yesterday that the Committee made a mistake with the referendum issue, so that it was fixed afterwards, and that didn't actually happen. It is completely incomprehensible to me that it is possible for myself to allow themselves to be so openly maliced and malice in their intention to obstruct all the good that is done for Serbia, if we know that the Committee sessions are being recorded and that everyone who is interested can hear what decisions are made at the Committee's session and not just the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, but all the committees of the National Assembly, which decisions have been made. It is important to tell the citizens of Serbia that the referendum issue will read because, we expect on January 16th, they will decide whether to make constitutional changes in the area of justice or not. So, at the first session of yesterday's Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we have identified a referendum issue that will take place – are you in favour of confirming the Act on the Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? In accordance with the new Law on Referendum which came into force, we met the obligation of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and sent a referendum question to the RIK and received the opinion that the issue was properly formulated in a clear and unequivocal manner, without suggesting that the answers were given, and that the answers offered were appropriate and we just found that in the second session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law yesterday. As you can see, the Committee has not made any mistakes, but through the media that otherwise serve the opposition, citizens are deliberately confused and completely deluded. I also want to say that these constitutional changes are not a prelude to any so-called. The 2009 "justice reform" that happened, we all remember very well, which resulted in only the paralysis of the work and paralysis of the work of the courts, and judges of God were thrown out onto the street and the millions of expenses suffered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, the impact of the policy on the judiciary and on the choice of judicial holders was enormous, and now we are ready even to see the National Assembly lose any role in the choice of judges and president of courts. There's a big difference, you'll agree when DS committees choose judges in political resemblance to the situation where we'll be if these proposals are adopted tonight, which means that judges choose between themselves, or that the High Council of the Judiciary plays a much greater role. More specifically, after the adoption of these changes, there will be no more so-called. "Terrestrial three-year period" for judges who are first elected as judges. We also had changes that weren't essential in nature, like changes in names, so for example, The Supreme Cassation Court will be Supreme Court and Republic Court, for example Public prosecutor to be chief public prosecutor. We'll talk about this later. Furthermore, the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary will be changed, consisting of six judges elected by judges, four prominent lawyers elected by the National Assembly and the President of the Supreme Court. The choice of prominent lawyers is detailed. Therefore, they are selected among candidates with at least ten years of experience in the legal profession on a proposal from the National Assembly's competent committee following a public competition, a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, and the relevant assembly committee is obliged to propose a double number of candidates from the number of candidates required. If this is not possible for any reason, these members will be elected by a committee composed of the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Public Prosecutor and the Protector of the Citizens, and then among all candidates who meet the conditions for the election. Although it seems complicated, the choice of this kind can be made in a simple and constitutional way envisaged. It may be important to stress that a member of the High Judicial Council elected by the National Assembly should not be a member of the political party. I would like to remind you that the High Council of the judiciary now consists of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Minister of Justice and the Chairman of the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly as members in office, or eight members elected by the National Assembly. Next, there won't be any more deputy attorney generals, but everyone will be prosecutors. If we look at the hierarchy, or whoever's running the public prosecutor's office, it'll be the Supreme Public Prosecutor, chief public prosecutors and public prosecutors. The state's major prosecutor's office will be called the High Council of the Prosecutors, and the composition will change. It will be made up of five public prosecutors elected by the chief public prosecutors and public prosecutors, four prominent lawyers elected by the National Assembly, the Supreme Public Prosecutor and the Justice Minister. For the sake of comparison, I would remind you that today the composition of the State Council of Prosecutors is made up of the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Minister of Justice and the chairman of the National Assembly's board of directors, by office and by the eight members elected by the National Assembly. This paper, which I mentioned briefly, certainly may not be the most important and certainly are not the only one, but I wanted to try to create a picture of what kind of changes are, in fact, changes that concern only the area of justice. When we talk about constitutional law, it is important for the implementation of the changes proposed through the Constitutional Amendment Act. I must also say that the Working Group did not deal with the very content of the Constitutional Law because it is more political than professional in one part. For this reason, we agreed that the deadlines provided for by the Constitutional Law were longer than was the case when we were talking about the 2006 Constitution because we now bear in mind that we are in the election year and we are aware that this implies a break in the work of the Government, but so is the National Assembly. The government will, of course, have to propose certain laws to the National Assembly. The National Assembly will be disbanded for a period of time. This is why longer deadlines are provided for in the Constitutional Law. Therefore, the Law on Judges, the Law on Courts, the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, the Law on VSS and the Law on DVT will be brought into line with the amendments if they are naturally accepted by Serbian citizens within a year, and the provisions of all other laws will be brought into line with the amendments within two years. What is important, and also means that no similar reform of the judiciary that happened in 2009 will be repeated in Serbia is provisions guaranteeing judicial holders that they will continue to perform their duties. Therefore, members of the existing VSS and DVT call from the judge's office, i.e. the deputy public prosecutors, continue to perform those functions until the end of the term of office to which they were elected. Judges of the Supreme Cassation Court and court staff shall continue their functions, i.e. the working relationship to the adoption of laws that comply with constitutional changes relating to the name of the court. Judges and deputies of public prosecutors elected to permanent office continue to perform their duties in courts, i.e. prosecutors elected, and judges and deputies of public prosecutors elected to office for three years, on the day of the constitutional law, are considered elected to permanent office. So no one will force legal holders to leave their jobs, no one will carry out a violent re-election, or anything that can remind them of the 2009 reform. Therefore, they can calmly continue to do their job. As I was getting ready for today's session yesterday, I was thinking about someone who wasn't interested or someone who wasn't informed enough, how do you explain what it was about? How do we bring anyone's idea of a referendum in the first place? What would I say, why would someone go to a referendum? I think it's a good idea for us to use this assembly debate today and invite citizens to be interested, but also to exercise their constitutional and legal rights to decide to participate in decisions that are important to the state and to all of us, but also to invite them to help us implement reforms in the area of justice and to create together the future of our country. This is the right way to involve citizens, their activities through the institutions of this country, not by blocking roads, not by restricting other people's rights to free movement or other rights, not in the street, but in the referendum and in the elections. And here's the deal, April 3rd. It is up to us to continue to work, to implement reforms that will bring good to Serbia, to fight for a more successful and orderly Serbia for which citizens have given us legitimacy and to ask them, to ask the people what they think. The people will decide in a referendum whether we need constitutional changes in the area of justice. We're here to prepare everything for them, to suggest. That's how the responsible government works. This is the result of a policy conducted by Aleksandar Vukic. Let the citizens wonder. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11141	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children". Since all the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have already spoken, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The first is National MP Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11142	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have today a set of important acts and decisions on constitutional changes that await us in a relatively short period. What is the fact that the change of the Constitution is an extremely serious thing and that this composition of the Assembly that has been working for a little more than a year has been established, there is an opportunity for it to participate in constitutional changes and, from that point of view, the responsibility of the Members themselves is extremely important and important. We are obliged to point out, in some ways, to our discussions, our observations, and to show the citizens what changes are really about. The changes in this part that are ahead of us are actually changes to the Constitution on legislation and what is the main intensity of these changes is actually strengthening the rule of law and the legal certainty of citizens. Whether it's going to happen, what the effects will be, that's something that's just ahead of us and what we're actually going to see. After all, everything that is a product of human work and action, and very often we can see through changes and additions to the law, is subject to changes, shortcomings and criticism, but the desire and will to change certain things and to move forward are actually a good indicator that both from this legal point of view and legal aspect tries to cover everything that is necessary. What is very important and significant is actually the implementation and application of these changes that we will soon conclude, if citizens agree and show their will at the referendum and express themselves positively, we will see the implementation and impact on the lives of citizens in some future period. Judgeial function, we have very often pointed out when we were able to discuss the proposals of judges who were elected for the first time at the judge's office, their responsibility in society is really great. I would even compare it with the responsibility of doctors who sort of care for human lives, and on the other hand, judges are those who have the opportunity, the right and the obligation to defend justice and that citizens simply feel justice on the ground in terms of representing their interests. If this is the case today, I'm not sure we have the best picture, especially in some smaller environments, where judges and prosecutors and lawyers who may be more influenced by some structures. We hope that future amendments to the Constitution and this legal framework will further strengthen the independence and independence of judges, and on the other hand the independence of prosecutors. The good thing is that citizens will have the opportunity to make a direct statement and, in a referendum, through a referendum issue that is completely clear and unequivocal, express their position on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11143	Thank you. To point out that you have left half the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11144	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister, told counterpart Zaric Kovacevic for a little while that the amendments to the Constitution that we are talking about today are such that they concern all citizens of Serbia and bring benefits to all citizens. It is through the independence of the judiciary that citizens in institutions are built up, and without trust in institutions and mutual trust, there is no democracy. Therefore, the return of citizens' trust in the judiciary, which will be the result of constitutional changes that we will bring, is the biggest challenge of every democratic government. I am proud and honored that as a representative of the citizens, as a national MP, I am taking part in the amendment to the Constitution, because I want to believe that precisely those, because they refer to the area of justice, will bring about those necessary changes and allow society to progress towards the EU as a final destination. We have entered a train that will stand up to that last station many more times, but after 15 years of adopting the Constitution in 2006, with all the provisions that we are changing today, which the Venice Commission has repeatedly pointed out and insisted on over the past 15 years, the most important thing is that we are on that train and that there is no more landing until the end of the destination, or Serbia's membership in the EU. I am also proud of the fact that representatives of the Hungarian, Bosniak and Albanian national minorities are sitting in this home. I am proud of the religious, national and cultural diversity and diversity that we have as a state and society, the blessing, the advantage and the vast wealth. We are obliged to cultivate and respect this because the equality and equality of the citizens of Serbia, regardless of religious and national membership, are guaranteed rights under the Constitution. Just because we are considering constitutional amendments today, the Constitution is as the highest legal act of the country as a backbone, a guideline, a backdrop and a turning point whenever we seem to lose sight of the values to which we have committed ourselves as a society to safeguard and live in harmony with them. We owe it to this house to clearly determine each appearance of hate speech and extreme nationalism in public space. As representatives of citizens, we must respect the Constitution before everyone else and be defended by every violation and disrespect. That is why I would also like to draw attention to all of us for our oath as MPs and to our duty to sharpen all our senses and stand decisively in the defense and protection of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedoms of all citizens, because that is why we protect both citizens and the state and society, and ourselves from others and others from ourselves. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always be defending discrimination against any kind, hate speech, impatience, whether it brings political points at some point. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always defend constitutional principles, equality and equality, rights and freedom of citizens of Serbia, regardless of their belonging, religious, national or any other. Building trust is our imperative and policy, good relations with neighbours, respect and respect for diversity, precisely because as a state so far we have achieved an extremely high level of national minority rights. We must also keep this in the future, cultivate and further improve, because it will make us even more proud citizens of our Serbia. The change of the Constitution is a presumption of the development and modernisation of society, judicial reform and strengthening of the rule of law, as well as the protection of human and civil rights and freedoms. The public debate is democratic fluid and there is no good enough argument to defend the absence of a public debate. I am particularly pleased that in this case no one can respect the non-compliance of procedures and democratic principles in the process of amending the Constitution. As a journalist, I have been following the process of changing the Constitution since 2001 and the first preparation of constitutional changes that occurred only in 2006. It is interesting to recall what questions we were asking at the time and what was crucial in the process of adopting the 2006 Constitution. Special attention has been paid to previous initiatives, promises, proposals for constitutional changes, with a comprehensive definition of the constitutional principles proposal and concrete solutions and guarantees of the independence of courts and prosecutors. Where we are today, exactly, compared to that time, and so declarative, but it has turned out, not essentially, to implement the pledges. A more complete and concrete definition of not only the stability of the judicial system, but also the continuity of the judge's office and the prosecutor's office, as well as the conditions and procedure for the termination of judicial functions, i.e. the resolution of judges and prosecutors and their election. How many times I have reported and repeated the following sentence – for the independence and independence of judges and judiciary is of particular importance the way judges and prosecutors are elected and maximum protection against political and party influences, as well as executive-government authorities. The loudly announced constitutional changes took place only in 2006, only as a condition for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. As the procedure moved forward this sentence, which I have now reminded, replaced the other – that democracy without a public debate is just one decision-making procedure, one of the many procedures of which the supremacy over other procedures is difficult to prove. There was no public debate at the time. There was a discussion in the media, about various and numerous proposals of the Constitution, but we didn't know anything about the final proposal. The assessment was that it was better to get a new constitution without a public debate, rather than a public debate without a new constitution. Instead of party similarities, professional ability and moral dignity were promoted, and whether we all know very well from the 2009 judicial reform. The fate of this constitution has been set by two questions – is Serbia in need of a new constitution? The answer to that question was yes. The second question, which was left without an answer and after the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, was it – was it supposed to be better than how long it was being prepared? Experts in the area of constitutional law then explained that the Constitution was the result of what some parties could accept from the proposal, and some to give in, on some important issues, which we today recognise not only us but also the Venice Commission as inconsistencies and contradictions or inaccurate definition of constitutional provisions. For the very end, I want to look back on what awaits us after we adopt the constitutional amendments. We are expected to have a serious referendum campaign, to be precise, that we are expected to explain to citizens as close and clear as possible why it is important for them and for them individually and for us as a society in general, constitutional changes, precisely those concerning the judiciary. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia in the voting day will make a full contribution to constitutional proposals. Of course, both campaigns and explanations and communication with citizens until the day of the referendum, in order to make it more clear what and how citizens and society have benefits from the adoption of amendments to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11145	Thank you. It's the perfect sense of time. The time foreseen for the parliamentary group has been spent. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, National MP Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11146	Thank you. It is very difficult for me to begin my presentation today by expressing my condolences to the family of our great friend and favorite colleague Milutin Mrkonjic Mrka. It will be difficult for us as his colleagues and associates without the positive energy and spirit that only the Dark could have. May eternal glory be to him and thank him for all he has done as a minister, as a People's MP, but above all as a friend. We have a very important topic in today's order, and we all know that the change of the Constitution is a very important and complex task in which the National Assembly played a key role, i.e. the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, and that is where the greatest burden has been brought by the MPs who led the committee, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, and all in collaboration with you, the minister and your ministry. One reason for amending constitutional provisions relating to the judiciary and meeting our obligations in the process of Eurointegration, but also the need to change the Constitution stems from the fact that clear inconsistencies can be seen between certain provisions of the Constitution and precisely because of these inconsistencies and certain shortcomings which are not merely technical and not only technical consequences, but rather inconsistencies of the weak spirit of constitutional guarantee, thereby calling into question the systematic formation of the judiciary and the public prosecutor's office. The regulatory framework should create awareness among judges and public prosecutors in the context of their independence, or independence of decision-making, as well as their responsibilities in the performance of functions. Many times in front of the JS parliamentary group, when we discussed in the Assembly the choice of judges and other holders of judicial functions, I pointed out that independence of the judiciary and the prosecution is one of the most important pillars of the rule of law and that it gives security and assurance to all citizens that Serbia is a country in which the freedoms and rights of all citizens are respected. Therefore, the basic argument for the change of the Constitution in the work of the judiciary is the fact that the current Constitution leaves too much room for the influence of the legislative and executive authorities on the choice of judicial holders and this influence can lead to unwanted politicisation of the judiciary. I would like to emphasise, no matter how much the president of the state, the prime minister and your minister have recently said that these constitutional changes refer exclusively to the judiciary, and unfortunately, individuals have used and wanted to abuse these changes for some other purposes, the only goal is to achieve maximum independence of the judiciary, or the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the public prosecutor's office. It's supposed to be the drive of all of us. It's the only way to guarantee the rule of law as the basic pillar of a modern society. I think Serbia is a modern society. Otherwise, the change in the Constitution is a condition for further reform of the legal system, the most significant reform in the area of the rule of law that represents the fundamental value of every democratic society, one of the EU's policy priorities. If we have defined ourselves to be the EU and to accept obligations, no matter how many times this EU has added new conditions to our accession, then this debate today on the change of the Constitution is in line with our specifics. We will discuss on Thursday in this high house a conclusion on the European Commission's report where we will see how much we have done, how much more of us are expected. I hope that the EU will recognise the government's determination that Serbia truly wants to be part of it, but to return to today's topic. This change in the Constitution is happening precisely to the strong insistence of European institutions in recent years, as a prerequisite for further discussion of European reforms and Eurointegration, however, the provisions of the Constitution in the area of justice should change primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, because this is in their interest, because this guarantees the independence of the judiciary, excludes the possibility of any political influence. The proposed Act amending the Constitution provides for the abolition of the existence of a three-year trial mandate for judges and deputies of public prosecutors who are first elected to serve as judges, i.e. a public prosecutor, which was previously criticised by the Venice Commission, I think in 2007. If we adopt this amendment, all the judges elected just like that and the public prosecutors get a permanent judge's office. It's one of the postulates of the Venice Commission at the Council of Europe, that continuity of judges, and the other is their immutability, because we had a situation for judges to be elected to judicial duty in Ivanjica, and then because of, I don't know, job needs to be relocated for example. to the King. That won't be possible now. If they are elected to court in the King, that is where they will perform their duties, only if the court for which they are elected is abolished. Otherwise, the Venice Commission gave a positive opinion on the draft of our constitutional amendments on 15 October, a very important step for full international and professional verification of our work. If we know that the constitutional reform process has been going on since 2006, when the Venice Commission made objections to the amendments to the Constitution, we have come to the conclusion that the Commission is now giving a positive opinion. This is a confirmation that the amendment of this Constitution was done in a serious way, with respect to the procedure which included all relevant factors of this society. It is one of the first steps towards harmonising our legal system with the European system, but the most important step in achieving our ultimate goal, which is the rule of law. Our delegation, led by the President of the Assembly, Ivica Dacic and the Minister of Justice, i.e. with you, participated in the work of the Plenary session of the Venice Commission and this is very important because we have made direct contact and talked in an equal manner. A unique Serbia in voting day will support changes to the constitutions that apply, as I said, exclusively to the judicial system, because we know that this guarantees the rule of law, which is one of the most important conditions for the normal life of our citizens and for the JS as a socially responsible party and the life of an ordinary citizen's priority, and we will, in front of our political party, invite all our supporters, all of our members to take part, as we heard from the president of the Assembly, probably on 16 January, come to the referendum, take advantage of their constitutionally guaranteed right and give their free opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11147	I would like to thank the vice president of the National Assembly. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11148	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as has been repeated several times during today's debate, we have before us extremely important acts that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia need to adopt to complete the process of constitutional change. Today, we need to make clear on the proposal for an act on constitutional amendments containing constitutional amendments, then on a proposal for a constitutional law on the implementation of constitutional amendments, as well as on a proposal for a decision to call a constitutional referendum at which citizens will declare constitutional amendments, i.e. what it says in the proposal, a referendum on the Act and amending the Constitution. For constitutional changes where this assembly of parliament began work several months ago, there are several reasons. The first reason is our strategic political definition, the European integration that requires and a number of social reforms, particularly regulatory reforms, and the crown of this is constitutional reform. The priority direction of constitutional reforms that Europe has been pointing to for some time is to build constitutional provisions relating to one of the three branches of the government, which is the judiciary, i.e. the judiciary. The second, but not importantly, is the addition of our legal system to applicable constitutional solutions, which will make Serbia a modern, democratic state in which the rule of law is above all above all. At first, I would like to repeat it again to the public, because I have spoken of it many times in the National Assembly, that constitutional changes only apply to the judiciary. I'm undermining this because of the various public comments that confuse our citizens. Namely, some circles say constitutional changes will be used for preamble changes, that we will give up KIM with constitutional changes. Of course that's not true. Citizens will still be able to get a direct understanding of the content of constitutional changes, as the act on constitutional changes is a public document, and on constitutional changes will be announced tomorrow, or tonight, by the constitutional referendum. Thus, constitutional changes aim to make the judicial authority, which is an independent branch of government, even more effective and more responsible. The European Commission's position, which we have accepted by approaching these constitutional changes, is that the completely independent judicial authority should contribute to the quality and efficiency of the judiciary, to an even more organised fight against crime and corruption and other social anomalies that their epilogue has before the judicial authorities, because the judiciary is one of the most significant link between the rule of law. In addition, the rule of law is measured by the rule of law, legal certainty, the quality of justice sharing and the efficiency of the exercise of citizens' rights before judicial authority. By harmonising our legal order with international standards and legal assets, the EU is a process that we have started as a candidate for EU membership, and Serbia is clearly strategically defined for Eurointegration, and in this respect a major progress has been made in creating a legal framework that has been rapidly adapted to European standards. The aim of all sectoral reforms we are implementing is to create a better society, strengthen the rule of law and secure Serbia's even better international position, while preserving its own sovereignty and territorial integrity. Of these goals, we will never give up. In the area of justice, constitutional changes preceded several strategic documents and the adoption of a large number of laws. I would mention the national strategy for judicial reform, which was adopted in 2013, on the other hand, we adopted 2016, and we revised the 2020 Action Plan for the Negotiating Chapter 23, which includes recommendations from the European Commission relating to the judiciary and the need to provide greater judicial independence through constitutional reform, but also greater institutional responsibility for this branch. In fact, in several of its annual reports, in the rule of law work, the European Commission has instructed the need for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to change in a work relating to the judiciary. The basic objection was to the lack of judicial independence and its inefficiencies. The European Commission's remark was that Serbia had too much political influence on the judiciary and that for these reasons the National Assembly should be excluded from the choice of judicial holders. In the European Commission's view, the Serbian judiciary would be more effective, more independent if the election were to take place within the judicial branch of the government itself. The judicial branch of the government is also now, under the Constitution, an independent branch of the government as defined in Article 4. The Constitution. I would say that we have adhered to this principle so far, but it is obvious that the reduction of efficiency and poorer motivation for restoring judicial functions in the past period has been influenced by judicial reform, which unfortunately took place in the period from 2001 to 2010. The best judges and presidents of the courts were then replaced overnight. People who could then be easily influenced, primarily through political power, were brought in. And today it's not easy to cure this two-decade disease, restore trust in the judiciary, the prosecution, ensure quality and efficiency. The European Commission's remark was primarily on how to elect judicial holders and the need for them to no longer be elected in the National Assembly. As far as the National Assembly is concerned, its powers under the Constitution have so far been to elect the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the presidents of the courts and judges who have first elected to serve as judges. Let me remind you that according to the earlier 1990 Constitution, the National Assembly has elected all judges and all the presidents of the courts from the basics to the Supreme and Constitutional Court. It was a public prosecutorial function. It is therefore important that everything we do be in that direction, not to weaken us, but to strengthen us as a state and as a society in general. In this regard, we view the position and role of the judicial authority as the lever of the state that contributes to the rule of law, the democratisation of society, and the responsibilities of this branch of government that will no longer have reason to talk about the political and external influences of judges, as well as prosecutors. Now there will be even more expressions of their expertise, commitment and dignity, which are the basic criteria and for selecting the holders of judicial functions. Today, we can say that this assembly meeting, headed by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, is ending a constitutional reform that will meet this strategic goal. We have been following the work of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee for several months, which was tasked with preparing the text of constitutional amendments and the draft constitutional law for the implementation of constitutional amendments. 29 constitutional amendments have been prepared covering all issues of the functioning of the judicial branch of the government. These amendments are ahead of us, before the National Assembly, and on their content we regularly met through members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. The changes are taken to several members of the Constitution and we are confident that a new way of electing judges, but also a new way of electing prosecutors, establishing bodies that will be elected by judges and prosecutors, will contribute to that strategic goal, which is strengthening the rule of law. Because we have from life practice that citizens of the state observe and evaluate the state first according to how the court works, how the courts do, when justice is divided whether all perpetrators of the crimes are convicted, whether the court is wronged or not. This will continue to be important for citizens, and our task, as legislators, is to adopt the best solutions that are in the interests of citizens as well as those in the interests of the state. In that sense, constitutional reform to which we have approached has an excuse and is certainly the result of identified weaknesses in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The content of constitutional changes will also be declared by citizens in the referendum, which will be called for 16 January. What I would like to repeat, and other colleagues have spoken about, is that we have passed a new Law on the referendum and the People's Initiative. We believe it was primarily our constitutional obligation. So, the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative is a constitutional obligation, since this law was passed in 1994, with one amendment in 1998, that we adopted a new Constitution in 2006 and that, in fact, because of someone's irresponsibility and indifference, this law is not in line with the 2006 Constitution. The question now arises, as today, Madam Minister, everything is politicised, now through the amendments to the Constitution, through these amendments, through the amendment of the law, i.e. the application of the law with the existing constitution talks about preamble, which, of course, is not the subject, because Serbia has a clear view that it will never accept Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. Today, we speak and identify the question that we are talking about with Rio Tint. What does Rio Tinto have to do with what we're talking about today? Therefore, the fundamental change is to strengthen and strengthen the Serbian judiciary, namely the efficiency and independence of the Serbian judiciary. It is something that we have been pointed out through reports from the European Commission years ago, that the ruling coalition has no political will to do so. Here, we do it. Today I talked about it, it tried to do it, and you know it very well, from 2009 to 2011, so it cares in 2011. Because the problem was preamble, because the imperative had to change the preamble. We do not change the preamble and it reflects our country's strength, determination and commitment to defend national and state interests. So, it stands in 2011, because in May 2012, there were elections, and it is estimated to have a negative impact on someone's election campaign. Like, for example, the border crossing agreement was all defined and signed by 2011, and in 2011, it cared about that, precisely because the elections were held in May 2012. So, during the replicas today, I was talking about that we first had a commission that worked between 2017 and 2018, that that was when the Venice Commission agreed, but that there was no agreement of professional associations and that this did not result in constitutional changes. After that, in 2019 continued to work, two meetings were held in August and October of the month and were agreed by the Venice Commission, but the agreement of professional associations was also obtained, which is of paramount importance and importance. They're asking the question today, when we're speaking specifically, I'm going to touch very briefly on the Law of Referendum and the People's Initiative, why is there no mandatory censorship? Mandatory censorship is not a standard of the Venice Commission. I think only five or six states today have a mandatory censorship. That would certainly, as they say, affect the assimilation of the electoral body by the representatives of the Venice Commission when we specifically talk about the referendum. So what we're talking about today, I repeat once again, first of all for the public, there are absolutely no touching points with Rio Tint, there are absolutely no touch points with the preamble of the Constitution. But we see that, without a possible idea, a programme, a policy, due to the inability to present any alternative to the ruling coalition, one part of the opposition is now trying to impose itself through some kind of ecological protest. Imagine, at this point they're interested in ecology. Do you know how interested they are in ecology? Just as much as they were interested in election conditions. Just to make a farce, to distract the public, to make them look like victims in some way. To be presented to citizens as victims, which is absolutely impossible in a specific case. When they talk about Rio Tint, it would be correct to say that the first expropriation was done, I think, in 2004. It would be correct to say that in 2008, just as their ministers spoke of Rio Tint as a major developmental opportunity and a development perspective for Serbia. And today? They're saying the opposite today. We say wait for the research to be completed. The research may take two years, but after these studies, a decision will be made, whether through a referendum or otherwise, but certainly a decision that will be in the best interest of Serbian citizens. So there is no reason to include European parliamentarians. You know, last night, this famous lobbyist, an open lobbyist for self-proclaimed Kosovo, i.e. to accept the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija, Viola von Kramon, who says she is in some way shocked by the reaction of the ruling coalition in Serbia to protests, trying in some way to threaten if her party takes over the foreign ministry. I remind you that she is the rapporteur of the European Parliament for Kosovo and Metohija, so when she talks about the rule of law and when she talks about reforms, but specifically when she talks about the rule of law, since she is a rapporteur for Kosovo and Metohija, she probably thinks about the double standards and double arches that apply to Pristina and Belgrade when it comes to the Brussels Agreement, because Serbia has realized everything that has been defined by the Brussels Agreement and Pristina is not. It's a very important thing if Fitzore Pacolli attended this so-called. the ecological protest, therefore, of someone belonging to Kurti's party, who is the MP of Kurti's party. If so, they have clearly declared their policy, and with full Serbian right to participate in the elections and to win 99% of the votes in Kosovo and Metohija, they call criminals. What I want to point out as a question, first of all to you, the minister, and I end up with that, of course, that the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposals, because it is a clear goal above all that is to be achieved. But what I want to ask as a question is -- protest is a legitimate right for everyone to express their political position or any other position on any issue, but using this right you cannot violate the right of the other, I am talking specifically about roadblocking, I am talking specifically about blocking streets in Belgrade and other cities across Serbia. Is that the basis, unless there is an announcement, there is no official announcement of any gathering, is that the basis for criminal and criminal charges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11149	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11150	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the distinguished minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, respected citizens of Serbia, is on the agenda of today's session of the draft act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as two points of the agenda that represent the necessary accompanying regulations with constitutional amendments and make up one continent with them. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the MP group of the United Pensioners of Serbia PUPS – "Tri P" in the voting day will support these proposals and vote "yes". Today’s debate is about a question that is not often on the agenda of the National Assembly. There are few MPs who, in their career, have the privilege, but also the obligation to decide on a change in the Constitution, as the highest legal act of a state. When we formally initiated the process of amending the Constitution about half a year ago, I said that a period of 15 years, which has passed since the current constitution was voted and later confirmed in the referendum, is sufficient to see its practical application, to see its uncontested quality, but also to point to some weaknesses that could be corrected, to have even better quality and more appropriate solutions. The formal proposal that is now in front of us is the result of an intense public debate that has been led both in front of the holders of judicial functions, scientific workers and representatives of the legal profession, as well as in the wider circles of the local public, but to some extent also in front of foreign forums. I would say that these particulars about the number of different types of activities related to the very process of changing the Constitution, from meetings, opinions, suggestions, to public hearings which are listed in the light of these constitutional amendments, are the best evidence of the seriousness with which this important business has been approached. It should only be recalled that we had hardly any of this in the process when the original text of our present Constitution was adopted in 2006. For example, in 2000, the amendments to the SR Yugoslavia Constitution were prepared and voted literally for one day, without moving further into the past, when the constitution was written at meetings behind closed doors, and the public knew about their details until they were published in official newspapers. Just because that's not the case now, we have taken a significant step and set a high democratic standard for possible future actions in such cases. Also, the seriousness with which the procedure has been approached may be important and reliable indirectly in the very quality of the text of the amendments ahead of us. I would say that the quality of these solutions themselves is good, that the new proposed norms are clear and concise, that in their final order the language fully fits into the already existing text of the current Constitution. A total of 29 amendments have been submitted to as many members of the law. I would like to begin by saying that there are not some malicious criticisms and attacks that these amendments are going towards eradicating Kosovo and Metohija from the constitutional justice system or something else hidden. Anyone who had even followed this process could personally be convinced that it was only about the changes in those parts of the Constitution relating to the organisation of the justice system, as one of the three branches of the government. Over the past decade and a half, it has shown that this was the constitutional area most slowly implemented in the work, where we have in our time had a series of smaller or larger affairs, all of which have contributed to the constant reduction of citizens' confidence in the full judicial system. This could not have remained undetected in our international relations, where such a system of justice has become one of the main obstacles to our efforts for full membership towards the European Union. If all of this is in mind, it is a wonder that we as a state have not joined the redefining of constitutional provisions relating to the regulation of the judicial system before. The substance of the proposed amendments is aimed at full affirmation and practical achievement of the idea and constitutional principle of sharing the balance of power. In this regard, several important changes to the constitutional text have been made. First, it was completely abolished so-called. The trial selection of judges for a three-year period conducted by the parliament. This solution may have made sense in theory if, when constitutional changes were made a decade ago and a half ago, another check of the quality of the work of potential judicial authorities at the moment when the High Council of the Judiciary was still a newspaper as a state institution, without built-up practice and procedures. But since this is no longer the case, since this body has been stalking itself in its work over time, there is no longer any need for this parliament to interfere in the election process of judges and that we, who do not have enough legal and expertise in this matter, decide who meets some of our criteria for being a judge and who does not. The election process will go completely to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, whose members are far more competent to decide. Once the new amendments are adopted, they will be significantly more detailed on the principles of the continuity and incompetence of the judges, which will be further guaranteed their independent and impartial treatment. I think it is a good thing that these amendments are prescribed that the principle of family trial is now of a optional type, because we in the area of civil and criminal law have long ago in practice created a state of law that, in the majority of proceedings, individuals or judges or judges alone, which was contrary to the current constitutional principle which provides for the rule of participation of citizens in the decision-making process. The high council of the judiciary will now gain far greater importance in our legal and political system. It will now fully get that position within the judicial system analogous to what our parliament has in the state, i.e. the main and supreme judicial body that will be fully responsible for all issues in this area, from the election of judges, judges, judges, judges, judges, the termination of judicial office, the transfer of judges to other organisational issues of the judicial system, in order to fully remove all the influences of the party on this body are foreseen and changes in its composition. So far, all 11 members of that body have chosen the National Assembly in an indirect or direct manner. Now this has been completely changed, so the National Assembly will select all four members of this body from the ranks of prominent lawyers. The amendments define that prominent lawyers must have at least 10 years of experience in the legal profession and that they cannot be members of political parties, which further specify this concept, in order to avoid its arbitrary interpretation in practice. These four members of the High Council of the judiciary will be elected by the National Assembly by a majority of two-thirds of the votes of all MPs, which means that, for each name, there will have to be a much wider consensus of parliament in order to elect truly the best candidates in these responsible positions. The amendments are also introduced as a newspaper to define that the Constitutional Court is subject to the decisions of the High Council of the Court of Appeal. Finally, it should be noted that all these new solutions provided for by the judiciary will also be applied in the work of the Constitution relating to the public prosecutors. The other two points of today's agenda represent the necessary accompanying regulations with constitutional amendments and make up one continent, there is first the constitutional law for the implementation of the amendments to the Constitution. They foresee new solutions in these amendments to be implemented by harmonising existing law in the field of justice with new solutions in the amendments within a year. This deadline, although it doesn't seem so short, I think it will pass very quickly, especially if it is borne in mind that we are in for an extraordinary parliamentary election very quickly. In that sense, I would like to appeal that the new laws of preparation be prepared as soon as possible, so that we do not come into a situation to break this set of deadlines and that we have to amend the Constitutional Law. It is further predicted that the existing High Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors will continue to work while these new laws are passed, that the existing elected members of those bodies will carry out their mandates and that missing members will be elected within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the law to be brought into line with the constitutional amendments. Until these bodies are reassembled, the National Assembly will continue to elect judges and deputy public prosecutors to the first election, but with the change that new councils of the judiciary and the prosecution will realise that these candidates have been elected to permanent office. Also, all existing court presidents and public prosecutors will extend their current mandates without interruptions until the end of the regular term of office, and those judges and deputy prosecutors elected for three-year probation periods will be considered elected to permanent office. In the end, all these changes, according to Article 203(7). The constitution must be put on a referendum where our citizens will give their Supreme Court on them on 16 January next year. It will be the first chance to give the right answer whether these changes are really justified or not. Personally, me and the PUPS MP group "Three-P" think that they are really quality and well done, that they aim to further strengthen the principles of the rule of law and the Institute of Independent Justice, so we will give our support for their adoption, so we call on all our members and supporters and all of Serbia's citizens to give their support for their adoption in the upcoming referendum. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia, PUPS "Tri - P" in voting day, will give its support for the adoption of these proposals. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, respected minister with associates, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11151	Thank you, Mr. Stosic. The word is Dr. Amela Lukač Zoranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11152	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, analyzed the draft act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or proposal 29 of the amendments in the Constitution, and referred to a statement issued by the Commission and addressed to the European Parliament, the Council of the European, Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions in which it is pointed out that the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia has achieved a certain level of preparedness, but that it is necessary to carry out reforms, i.e. that the choices of careers of the holders of judicial functions are based on merits and expertise, to establish that amendments to the Constitution were necessary in the light of the harmonisation of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia with the legal system of the European Union, as well as the correcting of the weaknesses of the current constitutional text of 2006 in that work on justice, as well as the achievement of a higher level of the fundamental rule of constitutional law. Given that the SAA was signed between the European Communities and the Member States and the Republic of Serbia in 2008, that it came into force in 2013, which gave the Republic of Serbia the status of the EU's associated state. The reform of the judiciary is a clear indication that Serbia continues through Eurointegration. In particular, the Members of 142 state that the judicial authority belongs to courts that are independent. Also in articles 144, where the independence of judges is treated, Article 145 says that the continuity of the judge's office, namely that the judicial functions are permanent in contrast to the provisions of the 2006 Constitution by which the judges were elected for three years, which we already had the opportunity to hear so much in today's session. When it comes to the election of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, it is commendable that they are elected for a period of five years, and that the same person cannot be re-elected either for the president, or for a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Similar provisions apply to the public prosecutor's office. The D.A.'s office is permanent, but the same face cannot be re-elected as a republican prosecutor, which is very commendable. What is essential in the future is to keep an eye on the choice of prosecutors and judges and to choose the highest-quality personnel, regardless of who chooses them, who will fully do their duty and make judicial decisions on behalf of the people. When it comes to the prosecution, it should be kept in mind that the provisions of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office of Article 82(5) are applied, because so far it has not been a practice. Basically, we have a problem making good laws that are not practically implemented. In particular, in this case, Article 85 of the Law which I have mentioned is the following: when selecting and proposing to elect public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, consideration shall be taken of the national composition of the population, the appropriate representation of members of national minorities and the knowledge of professional, legal terminology in the language of the national minority which is officially used in court. Also, the right to trial within a reasonable period of time before an independent and impartial court is one of the fundamental rights of each individual, and that is what has been addressed this morning in its presentation and by the Minister of Justice and, therefore, pointed out that the trial within a reasonable time will be a focus topic just after the adoption of this new Constitution. The European Commission's recommendations for democracy through law have been implemented to a much greater extent than was the case when the 2006 Constitution was adopted. It is commendable that in this way the choice of judges and the choice of prosecutors elected outside the reach of politics, which is also the conclusion of the Venice Commission after the 2006 constitution was adopted. It was their comment that there was a serious danger that political parties would control the judiciary. Now this case will be different because they will choose the bodies that are made up of members of the profession. Also, the rule of law that we are all talking about today is possible through the interaction of all three branches of government, which is also the necessity in democratic societies, through the sharing of responsibilities by all three branches of government. I also had the opportunity to hear one finding that in the Republic of Serbia, minority rights have never been violated. I must say that the rights of members of the national minorities have been violated in the previous period, perhaps this is not the case now when we are talking about the current government and the president of the state, or Mr. Alexander Vukic, but I must look back at the period when national minority rights were violated in 2010, specifically by Minister Svetozar Ciplic, who then violated the electoral will of citizens and disabled the right, the Bosniak cultural community to form a national council even though it won 48% of voters from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. in elections for national minorities. Accordingly, that's when the D.A.'s office failed, and the court was scheduled. I hope that by implementing the new Constitution, we will fully ensure the rule of law, equality and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11153	Thank you. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11154	Thank you. Vice-President, respected colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Justice Ministry, dear citizens of Serbia, these are all days of constructive talks, attempts, above all, I would say to all my colleagues that we are denying everything that has been said on the topic of constitutional change that we are talking about today. Even if someone came to Serbia today, not knowing what the situation is, he would recognize that we are nearing elections because one percent of those who would participate in Serbia's political life are not choosing funds to try to raise cheap political points. How do you do that? Politics that are inadmissible, and it is certainly unacceptable when you talk about constitutional changes, constitutional amendments, laws that are important, above all, for citizens and it is inadmissible in this way to try to deceive the entire Serbian public, firstly, because I must say that my impression is that this is difficult, because our citizens are absolutely not subject to any act, however much you need to read it in their own way, and that by moving the score, you change the essence of what it says, but that I would not sound like we are not talking about the subject, I will return to what is the basis, which is that the Constitution is the highest general legal act in the system of general legal acts of a state and that it is considered as such a fundamental law. It regulates the most important relations in the country and, above all, the state organisation and authority of state authorities, as well as freedoms and rights of citizens. That is why all other laws that are passed in the Serbian Parliament must comply with this most important law, that is, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is not impossible to present constitutional changes as something Serbia must do. No, he doesn't. No one in this room has to do this job because he promised someone. As MPs, we have received citizens' trust, because we talked about the way to the EU being important to us, it is a priority and that we will do everything we can to join the European family. When they say today that we have to change this, those who are first, but I must say, deceived the Serbian public 20 years ago, it's not a great historical distance. On the wings of those stories about the benefits of Europe, the Serbian people deceived and led to their trust once upon a time. A serious percentage of them today speaks of how we are some subjects who have to do something. At that time, they failed to discuss EU accession, except to convince some, I would say, bar deals with one percent of their European friends, conditionally speaking, who did or did not have authority. Today, Serbia has a precise European path, and it knows very much what it wants, as it knows what it will never do, so it is another thing that they tried to impose as a dilemma on citizens to accuse us of changing this Constitution of Serbia, perhaps that there is a hidden intention behind it about giving up Kosovo and Metohija. Third, my distinguished colleague, Djordje Milicevic, spoke about it, and I think it's Professor. Zarko Obradovic, that constitutional changes have ties to both Rio Tint and that very popular story lately, which has its beginnings again, not thanks to this ruling majority. Even if they were to say out loud, well, maybe the deal with Rio Tint was our fault, it would make a lot more sense than to accuse us today of entering constitutional changes because of, for God's sake, Rio Tinta. What is actually changing in the Constitution of Serbia, the lawyers said. I will certainly do it less professionally than my colleagues who know, above all, and who are graduate lawyers, the expert team that has dealt with it, a working group that has been formed just to make constitutional changes more quality and that constitutional amendments will be written exactly as they will benefit the people of Serbia, on whose behalf all the future elected judges will pass judgments, and then that the the thesis appears on behalf of the people, if the Assembly is excluded from the election of judges and could also question the fact that four members of the High Council of Justice from the ranks of prominent lawyers will choose exactly the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Six out of 11 members will be elected from the ranks of lawyers and will elect among their colleagues. I hope or I'm sure they'll be well prepared for one of their colleagues to show confidence, fully aware of what that means, and one or eleven will certainly be president by office, Serbian Supreme Court President, as it will be called after constitutional changes. Why do I think it's important? As much as I start off as someone who was an economist might have been drunk even if for the first time judges were elected by the National Assembly of Serbia, but then I remembered, and they helped even people in that, I think he spoke today. Zharko Obradovic, how much she knew to abuse political power in the Serbian parliament, how much in 2000 there was a political conflict with the profession, and it seems to me that, at any rate, when a huge number of judges were changed, assuming that they served, as they said, the former regime, a permanently impaired image of the expertise of this branch of government that should not be questioned, from all these positions we are today accused, even though the practice, which should create fears of such moves, is precisely from the period in which this furniture has ruled, which today criticises all of us and all constitutional changes. There is no need for me to say that we will support the proposed constitutional changes, the proposed constitutional amendments, but I want to say something else to the citizens of Serbia, that the upcoming referendum will come up and respond to the referendum issue, come out and say that they understand that these changes want to contribute primarily to the efficiency and independence of the judiciary as one of the three branches, because what is the basis when we talk about three branches of government, or legislation, which we represent, to the executive and judicial, which, in our description, must be absolutely independent from the beginning, these changes contribute to an independent and more professional judiciary. I am almost certain that, amongst themselves, respected lawyers, judges, prosecutors will choose the best because they will bear responsibility for anything that may not be good. So far, there may have been grounds to hide behind some political decisions. I don't think they have that option after these constitutional changes. They will have to answer for their expertise fully and their actions under the circumstances that they will truly show trust in one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11155	Thank you. The word has a Deep King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11156	Do I have time?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11157	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11158	I've had enough of those two minutes to say two sentences. The first will be a quote by honourary president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, our friend and friends, one father figure, Milutin Mrkonjic, and he always spoke – the first profession, only then politics. There's only room in the judiciary for the profession, there's no room for politics. That's what these constitutional changes are all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11159	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11160	Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed presidents of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, respected Madam Ministers with an associate, I must say that the proposed amendments have been extremely well done, and nomotechnically and linguistically, that with these amendments I agree in two things, and that is to erase that trial period of three years for the selection of judges and to return the term Supreme Cassation Court to the Supreme Court, which is not only formal, but also essential, which is already enough to be spoken of today and I would not repeat it. Anything else bearing these amendments, regardless of what if adopted, will be the most written and best done component of the current Constitution, I cannot agree and cannot support. These amendments put us in a position that we and the tiniest thread that existed between citizens of the Republic of Serbia, judges and prosecutors, practically by adopting these amendments almost completely deleted. In this way, there is even a question of what even the amendments point out, and this is a question of balance and mutual control of the authorities. Practically, what is proposed, four prominent lawyers at the High Council of the Judiciary and four lawyers at the High Council of the Prosecutors cannot represent the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I don't think they can even represent this House, and since they will represent a serious minority there, the issue is even with their efforts, knowledge, authority and others, what will make the work of the High Council of the Judiciary or the High Council of the Prosecutors a serious contribution to improving. What I must further congratulate my esteemed colleague, Zaric Kovacevic, who has invested exceptional energy that this public debate really has a broad situation, and not only that, but that in many public debates it preserves the integrity and dignity of this parliament. I wouldn't go into the details, whoever was following, saw that she was keeping an eye on every moment to protect the identity of this institution. What I have as a grudge, but when we decided whether to approach constitutional changes or not, I said that we were subject to Balkan rules. I was against the procedure. Of course, in democracy, most have greater power, but individuals have the right to keep their opinions until they realize that they are possibly wrong, either one or the other. Since some of the things that were very important and not only about changing the way the public prosecutors were elected, i.e. the composition and authority of the High Council of the Prosecutors, but also about the conceptual change in the work of the Prosecutors' Office in the perspective, which I am going to do a little later, it was really appropriate to hear at least more seriously in the work of the group that was working in preparation include the Republic Public Prosecutors' Office, the High Council of the judiciary, the Supreme Court of Cassation, and at least one of the other serious professional associations that were not involved in the work of the Working Group, regardless of the fact that some nuances were later balanced through public debate. The Fama on the Venice Commission should be made very clear. I will not read statistics and tables here, but the Venice Commission is not only dealing with the Republic of Serbia, nor the Balkans, it deals with all EU countries and beyond. I don't want to count a devastating number in some Western European countries with zero adopted recommendations from the Venice Commission. There was much talk about this during 2018, 2019, while it lasted the first public hearings and the debate on the possible change of the Constitution was held. It is unacceptable to separate the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the judiciary and the judiciary from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I will agree that the profession and knowledge above all else, but in order to be a judge or prosecutor, it is not enough that you have completed a law school, passed a judicial exam, had an average of 10.00, studied less than four years, but you have to possess some other qualities and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia trust you in your hands to exercise power. The high council of the judiciary, which will be formed as proposed if these amendments are not past, does not represent citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And it's really not demagogy, not even a newly invented novelty, I say--no one who, in the future by such a High Council of the Judiciary is elected has any moral right, may have it formally, but morally, to write above his sentence "In the name of the people". We here allow ourselves to pursue two things. One is the independence of the judiciary from its citizens, and the other is the independence of the judge from acting in individual cases. If someone thinks that the independence of judges and their better work will happen by adopting such amendments on their own, and that such amendments will create predispositions that this will happen better for the citizens of Serbia, I fear that they are in serious error. I've listened very carefully today to distinguished colleagues who, I must say, I won't talk about who it is, but have even been contradictory to themselves. Such constitutional amendments, which makes sense, confirm a lifetime choice for a judge and only under express certain circumstances can the situation be resolved or his function stopped. And he says it'll be better. And the problem with the judiciary occurred in 2009, when some who studied seven, 12 years, were not decent, were not trained, not like this, are not like this, etc. I must remind you, too, dear colleagues, and this colleague, that 95% of those chosen in 2009 are judges today. And with these, we confirm their mandate as long as they want to be judges or, God forbid, do something that is a serious crime and get conditions to be resolved. So he's not gonna fix anything on his own. The analyses that have been attempted since 2017 to be broken down as the thesis that parliament is the source of evil when it comes to Serbia, have been completely denied even by an analysis, or by a poll conducted by the World Bank, which was otherwise inadmissible for me to allow anyone besides the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to investigate the state of justice at all, but even that poll confirmed that when it comes to MPs, there was no pressure and influence on the work of courts and decision-making almost didn't exist. We had representatives of professional associations in this working body who claimed quite the opposite. I'm talking about the period 2017, 2018, 2019, but everything has its own history, you know. I asked them to tell me, because I've done serious business and research, how many criminal charges against MPs have been filed as sources of evil that have tried to pressure the court or the prosecution and either file that information, so I can apologize or they can stop lying. I have not heard of any case that any of the MPs from 2012 were here until that moment in any way trying to influence the work of the court, nor that the proceedings were initiated. He says, you know, they shouldn't have. Those who should not, if that is so, do not give God any help, nor are they capable of being judges or prosecutors and there is no system in which they can do better and more honestly than they do as they do. The weird archeologists of the Venice Commission on attitude, let's say the referendum law. He says he doesn't need a census, it doesn't matter what the census is. And then, through these amendments, almost incredible censorships are introduced for decision-making in the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, the future. First, most of the two-thirds of the votes of all MPs, the National Assembly elects four members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and four members of the Prosecutors' High Council, and most of the three-fifths of the votes of all MPs elects the Supreme Public Prosecutor and decides on the termination of his post. If we take into account here the fact that 150,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia need a minimum as possible for any amendments to the Constitution, hypothetically speaking, such constitutional amendments may, I sincerely hope that this will not happen, can confirm or reject a smaller number of what is necessary in order to even enter the procedure. In this all that you recommend from the Venice Commission, I see definitely attempts to completely disembark the Parliament from the work that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have entrusted it with. Why do I say that? So tomorrow, or one day, if this is adopted, four members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary will be elected from the ranks of prominent lawyers of eight possible candidates. That may sound nice and nice, but it's forbidden for MPs to choose not to. Imagine a situation to run for eight people who, according to the criteria or criteria of the MPs or most MPs, and especially by the criteria and criteria of two-thirds of the MPs, which is set as an additional problem, do not meet these criteria. Then what did they suggest and what did they accept? That the congregation cannot choose with any explanation, and then further humiliation of the congregation. It is then that, instead of the Assembly, if the Assembly is not elected within a deadline, it is a commission made by the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Public Prosecutor and the Citizens' Protector by the majority of votes. Some of these people choose the Assembly still, some choices now. Dear colleagues and fellow citizens, I would understand that we are under the rules of some legislation that I highly respect and respect in the West, which have been developed, true democracy, which for a long, long time have something. What is proposed to us exists only in such or even milder, for shade, form in Croatia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Romania and Portugal. If those five legal systems are going to be my ideal, then I'd better never have passed law school. As far as the prosecution is concerned, I'd like to make mistakes, but these changes to the amendments that are proposed, I don't understand how they're going to be implemented, I admit. I read the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, I read the amendments, and I don't understand one part of it, and he's in college alone with himself. Judges have been elected, judges have the right to judge, the High Council of the Judiciary, but also according to these current and future regulations as they are, has the right to deploy and to know their powers. It says here, it is predicted, that the existence of a deputy public prosecutor is deleted. He's gonna be some D.A. and some of the D.A.'s office. I'm sorry, this isn't just changing the names of Gjorge or Pera, Wicca or Laza. Here's the point. Dear colleagues, when the Republika Srpska Assembly decided in any session on who would be the prosecutor, and who the deputy public prosecutor had to bear in mind what amount of authority and authority it gave him. So the deputy public prosecutor, without consent and absolute insight of supervision and control and responsibility of the prosecutor, can't initiate the procedure, can't give up prosecution, can't carry out any other actions. This is how we fully open a small door for a complete change in the concept of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Serbia. If they were to be public prosecutors, first, I wonder why they would become public prosecutors and get those powers, because in order for someone to be a public prosecutor today to report to the competition or to be elected deputy public prosecutor, at least for the first time, he had to report to the competition. So it's not just the law to enforce constitutional changes that someone translates from a deputy attorney to a prosecutor, it's not even intended to do that. Then, in my opinion, it logically implies the following thing that when one day, if this goes by, I personally hope that it won't, the High Council of the Judiciary will have to call a contest for the election of 800 public prosecutors. I don't see a need that suddenly appeared at the final stage of working on constitutional changes. There's never been an objection from the Venice Commission, no matter what I think of it, to the fact that the prosecutor, the deputy public prosecutor, the republican prosecutor, has all the time. This is a copy of a page from the Montenegrin judiciary, because they have a chief prosecutor, chief prosecutor and everything else, if you follow what's going on in Montenegro and around Prosecutor Katnic, you'll know where he can take us. I don't understand why without an essential analysis, without a serious public debate, the concept of an existing public prosecutor's organization is changing. That might be good when one day we end up fighting organized crime. You see, esteemed colleagues, we today as possibly exposed to pressure, to succumb in one way or another, have 80 public prosecutors, if I counted well. In the end, if anyone even succumbs to the end of the term of office, he will no longer be a public prosecutor. If someone is trying to exert pressure and is expected, appropriate services that do their job in this country at worst must provide and take care of 80 people. If we get to the point that 800 prosecutors, and we get into this completely unnecessary, are exposed to possible pressure and influence on them, well, who's going to stop and protect them? So this wasn't taken care of enough. That's why I'm saying it would be much better, and I know they don't have a positive opinion on this work and some associations, and not even some prosecutors, members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the current State Council of Prosecutors, and I don't count on it, I just don't want to call on their names. The haika that exists to do this, which is campaigning, systematically driven is not good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is not good for the judiciary, has turned our attention to the other side, because the problem of the Serbian judiciary is ignorance. I now very responsibly argue that if a number of judges and prosecutors had to pass the tests they had passed by yesterday and those elected for the first time in office of the deputy prosecutor or judge, they would not pass them. With these amendments, we have cemented their future, and we have also not made them more independent, we will only make them more exposed to possible pressure. Why am I saying possible pressure? When we made clear during 2018 and 2019 that there was no pressure from the MPs on the work of the courts, it began to say that there was a need to warn possible influence. All of you, like me, know very well that being a judge, being a integrity prosecutor, does not depend on whether something is possible, but on how much knowledge you have, how much respect you do, and how much responsibility you have for the citizens who have given you authority to be the third independent branch of government. With this, one huge power loses even that thin thread with citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I honestly have to say that these four prominent lawyers are better off not being here, because they'll only serve as a cover if something bad happens. I think I've made myself clear. I don't want to owe any more, I could say a lot more about this, I'm very sorry, but we won't support these constitutional amendments, and I hope that these amendments won't be confirmed in the referendum if the Assembly votes them and adopts them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11161	The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11162	Dear Members of Parliament, with all due respect for your different opinion than mine, I wanted to look back on two things. First, you asked how many criminal charges were filed against MPs on the issue of influence on judicial authorities. It is not necessary for a person to commit a crime in order to influence judicial authorities. Such inappropriate influence is possible in another way, that's one thing. Two, you mentioned that it would be necessary to conduct a competition for public prosecutors who are being translated from the deputy public prosecutors into prosecutors. It's only about changing the term and only about changing the term. As we have already presented several times, there will be no re-election. All current deputy public prosecutors will be translated into public prosecutors as soon as the Law on Public Prosecutors comes into force. This is necessary for me to announce for the sake of peace the deputy public prosecutors and the public of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11163	Mr. Komlensky, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11164	Thank you, Chairman. It is not my custom to enter replicas, but here is a much more crucial issue that remains completely open, what is the reason for these names to be changed and whether the powers that the current deputy public prosecutors are going to be called public prosecutors are going to be greater than they are today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11165	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11166	They will certainly have a much greater responsibility given that they are called. It remains exactly the same principle of work as before. I'm the public prosecutor's name right now gives you more responsibility. In practice, you have a prosecutor's office where the chief prosecutor doesn't ever see a case run by a deputy public prosecutor. We must simply be practical in the work. In any case, the possibility is held now and here in the Constitution of the Attorney General, to instruct the lower public prosecutor at certain times when he considers it necessary, and the only difference is now that the acting chief prosecutor has the possibility of making a complaint.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11167	To conclude, Mr. Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11168	Of course, I'll just remind you that the deputy public prosecutors who have that status are not elected with such powers and cannot simply be translated into a higher category, except in the legal manner prescribed. So they can't become public prosecutors just like that, even if they only had one shred of authority, because they didn't get it from the Assembly. I thank you for your tolerance, Mr. Orlic, and I won't answer again no matter what the answer is.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11169	Thank you, Mr. Komlensky, for your understanding. Minister Maja Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11170	That's exactly what I was going to say. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying is that they don't translate into a higher function.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11171	Thank you. We're moving on. The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11172	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced and convinced, unlike Mr Komlenski, that citizens will vote in a matter of about a month and a half, in a little less than two months, on these uprising amendments and do something interesting. Look at the mathematical progression, no one noticed the three last constitutions and these amendments in 2022. So in 1974, then 1990, then in 2006, every 16 years we change the Constitution. I would return to that unfortunate Constitution in 1974. Why unhappy? Well, he created the Socialist Autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo, without Metohija, only Kosovo was called, but come on, he created them, rather than allowing them to have constitutions, or state prerogatives, which thank God today is not the case. Already the next Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought in 1990 to disable and remove these state prerogatives. Today, the 2006 Constitution was often mentioned, but for many things it is more than interesting and in a positive sense and I am proud and pleased, and happy that in 2006 I voted for it. It was the product, perhaps the largest coalition capacity around one act, even if it was the highest state act, a single state ID card, or the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Today, Mr. Pastor mentioned the SRS and then the Democratic Party as opposition but most popular parties supported the constitution. He forgot to mention a party that had minority support for power at the time, which is the Socialist Party of Serbia and its MPs voted. But what's interesting? 242 MPs voted for the constitution in this room without any opposition, without any abstention. Today, when the number of MPs of the opposition is much smaller, I fear that the number will not be achieved for many reasons, regardless of objective ones, but 242 MPs supported the Constitution in 2006. Was there a public debate? It was a very strong constitutional campaign and it was a strong anti-constitutional campaign. The MPs who are in parliament today participated in one and the other. We had an opportunity at a public hearing in a small hall here in the Assembly to hear a minister from today's government who said he didn't vote for that constitution. So he was one of those eight who didn't go into the O.R. and I'm glad that democracy and that width feel right here today. This constitution contains this preamble that makes it very important, but it is not only a preamble, but also a Article 182nd, where it says -- the Republic of Serbia has autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. To change the Constitution today, there was even a proposal to change the whole constitution, and that's where we can discuss it. We are today submitting constitutional amendments from only one area. These changes are in fact not politicised and are not as political as these last three constitutions have had certain political consequences, which are negative, which is positive. Several MPs did so, and I, too, must, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and legislatory, did the lion's part of the job, and indeed, colleague Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, I must publicly commend. I am already a few terms of office, I am such energy and such commitment I do not remember seeing, perhaps I do not remember well, as well as fellow Members. Thank you and the members of the Working Group, but especially thank you and the Minister, Mrs Maja Popovic, Mr Vinš and all those who are real, who said pregladically opposed to doing something the way they think they should and for the benefit of the citizens. What's good about all this is probably less important, but the judiciary and the ordinary citizen will get close, because when he comes to the referendum and however he votes, he'll start thinking more actively about the judge in his place, both the prosecutor and all the relevant factors in the area of justice. Were we unique all the time and were there dissonant tones in public hearings? It was. We've heard suggestions that the constitutional category become a judicial academy, that lawyers become a constitutional category. That didn't go away. So there have been various opinions and there has been this document before us today, and half of January in front of Serbian citizens. To return to my first sentence, I am convinced and I am convinced that everything will go well and that both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia will vote on these changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11173	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11174	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Dr. Orlic. The Honorable leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister of Justice, Mrs Popovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are discussing a very important topic, perhaps the most important, or constitutional changes. laying down a proposal for an Act amending the Constitution. Changing the Constitution is a very big job, a very serious job, and it's not done every day. The change itself requires more steps to ensure that the Constitution is implemented in one appropriate way, in such a way that it can be applied and that it meets the needs of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to meet certain European standards, standards and values. Namely, negotiating chapters dealing with this topic, which are Chapter 23, but also Chapter 24, are very useful chapters, and I can certainly say weeds because these chapters contain some key norms and key principles relating to the rule of law, the rule of law, but some basic democratic principles. They form the core of these clusters according to the new negotiating methodology, so-called cluster methodology. These changes further strengthen democracy in our country, that is, the independence of the judiciary that exists in this country, but it certainly further strengthens itself with these changes, i.e. constitutional changes and the entire judiciary, civil society, but also other prerogatives of democracy in these changes will reach its full essence and form, and for democracy it is not only the outcome or goal that matters, but also the process. So it's the form that counts. The democraticity of the process and the greater acceptance by the relevant factors is the best indicator of the political maturity of a society for any kind of change, the political change ahead. I must point out that this Committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has held a series of public hearings on constitutional changes not only in Belgrade, but also in Nis, and in Kragujevac and Novi Sad on two occasions. All, absolutely all representatives of the profession, the judiciary, the academic community, representatives of the Faculty of Law and the Head of Public Law Department, the Constitutional Law, the Law Theory and the Philosophy of Law, as well as the leaders of courts of all kinds, prosecutors, civil society, NGOs, the entire civil sector, as well as individual representatives of international organisations based in Belgrade, were invited. All of them had the opportunity to express their views and, in a civilised, peaceful, democratic tone, to reason or to give an opinion, to state some of their views, but to, in line with the importance of the topic, at times and to argue on some very important issues. All useful suggestions and proposals were included in these constitutional amendments, and then on several occasions confirmed by the Venice Commission, which recognises Serbia's major shift, major progress in terms of democracy and human rights. Also formed was the Working Group for the Making Act on the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was attended by representatives of the Faculty of Law, Courts and Prosecutors, our top experts on Constitutional Law. They made themselves a Draft Act. I just have to point out that all these changes are strictly necessary for the sake of our citizens, not for the sake of foreign interests. We are on a European path and it is normal for us to accept certain Europeans, to say, the values of norms, criteria, all in accordance with the standards of European rights, i.e. the European Corps of Human Rights, international law and other standards. However, this is not done because of the EU, due to some NGOs, international organisations, any organisations above national level. This is only done for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it is very important to highlight it. Our citizens are most important to us, which is why we are doing this and this is done to further strengthen legal certainty in this country. Of course, these successes of Serbia seem to bother someone, and there is a tragic situation, or paradox. In fact, certain members of the yellow regime criticise these changes without success and with pro-rightist, and sometimes with pro-levian ideology, or ideas, they don't even like this patriotic position that we're strengthening our own country, our own identity, their hour is not good that we're going to the EU, which we're passing modern laws, liberal laws, which we're changing the Constitution in a way that we meet these European norms, they've completely lost themselves and in one hope they've found themselves. For example, their once purely pro-European idea, the ideology of direction or orientation, is no longer the same, is no longer at that level, when we achieve huge successes on this plan on European integration, the opening of new chapters, the advancement in this cluster methodology when we get a positive report from both the European Commission and the European Parliament, when we get commendation from the Venice Commission, then they don't do so well, and sometimes they just advocate it. They're not doing anything wrong today. Right now they become the biggest critics of something that they have failedly represented, which is exactly why they behave like this, because they have not achieved any success in European integration and are now frustrated, they are now angry, because we are the ones who are able to meet all these criteria and standards and to progress on European integration. They can't stand it, they're angry, they're frustrated. Indeed, it is a tragic situation with Gilas, Jeremic, Lutovac, Marinik and other quasi-Europeans, and you have that organisation, movement, party, they don't know what they are either, "We're not drowning Belgrade". Their activists said the other day that these constitutional changes concern "Rio Tinta", some other things, as they were implemented in a way that the public did not participate in, that it was happening behind some closed doors, behind some cotters, cabinets, that all things were done in secret. I mentioned earlier that we held a whole series of public hearings where everyone was invited, everyone, all civil society, profession, justice, law schools, everyone could participate. All received calls, and then a few days ago their activists, their officials from "We Don't Drown Belgrade," say all this was done just like that under the grain. Also, what is very important, these constitutional changes are not carried out for "Rio Tinta" or for the removal of KIM from the preamble of our Constitution. There is no discussion about it, KIM are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. It'll stay forever, that's not what you're talking about. They don't serve these constitutional changes to change that. These constitutional changes concern only the areas of justice. Unfortunately, on the tycoon media of Gilas and Solak you can hear exactly the opposite. I will give an example, since we are talking about judicial reform, which concerns, for example, the election of judges. I'll do it without some valuable attitude. I'll do one comparative legal analysis. For example, in China judges are elected by the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, their politburo, and the Svekine National Congress, it is parliament, sometimes played by the Supreme Court. In the U.S., you have five basic models to select judges. The Supreme Court judges are elected by the president of the state, and the other judges are elected in five ways in these federal states. For example, you in the U.S. have so-called. the party model where the people vote in the elections, round the name of the judge, and besides the name of the judge writes party membership. For example, the people vote for John Johnson who belongs to a democratic party or Mark Whitaker who belongs to a Republican. So you have a party model in certain federal states. In some you also have a nonpartisan model where a simple vote for a judge. You have his name and his last name, from which is the electoral unit and the vote for him. Then you have a governoral model where the direct governor as president of the executive office chooses a judge. Then you have a "imimirit misuri flame" that is a hybrid combined model, where the expert commission gives the governor a proposal to give the judge a probationary mandate, and then the people to the so-called. "retense electric" is the vote whether or not the judge will continue the term of office. So you have more of these hybrid models. In the opinion of the advisory council of European judges, which is not legally binding, but is highly appreciated, because there are really good experts when it comes to constitutional law, it says that the full independence of judges is a necessary body chosen by judges to decide on their careers, work, discipline, disciplinary responsibility and progress. We already have it, it's the VSS, by moving the choice of judges from the Assembly to the VSS. Just in line with these liberal and European principles and principles. A good example from practices where VSS has a more or less similar role as with us, such as European countries such as Andorra, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Holland, Norway, Slovenia, Hungary. We are precisely in line with these countries, with the most developed European countries, and with these constitutional changes we will further strengthen that position. Also another important thing, proof that the rule of law is present here in Serbia and that we have a rule of law, that democratic principles rule is that the political functioning of judges in the current constitution is prohibited, and that provision will not change. She will remain with these constitutional changes. So it's forbidden for the judges to act politically. This is also in line with the EU's liberal, democratic principles. Also, judges are elected to parliament, but as I said, it will be transferred to the VSS, which is also in line with these European principles. In Serbia, judicial power is now independent, and with these constitutional changes, this independence will be further strengthened, in line with these rules of developed European countries. That is why I repeat that we are in this league, in this summit of European countries, the most developed European countries when it comes to the rule of law, the functioning of the rule of law, but also strong democracy. These are all indications that we are truly meeting these constitutional changes in the best possible way of these European criteria which are the prerogatives of democracy and the rule of law. This is how the best candidates, professional and responsible people are chosen for judges, not as in the former yellow regime where judges were elected to the municipal committees of the Democratic Party. Then people like that get to us today. Such people who have been appointed judges exclusively along the party line today are rebelling against constitutional changes. It's a shame. This is done to further strengthen the rule of law which and how it exists in this country, to further strengthen, as well as to increase further and further strengthen the legal security of all our citizens. With this, I will support together with colleagues and colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, these proposals are also useful for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11175	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11176	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed minister with an associate, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today three very important acts relating to the process of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and one of those acts are also a proposal for a decision to call a Republic referendum. Today we could see in the means of public information, and most of all in the media and in the portals that do not support the Serbian Progressive Party's policy that certain information appears which is completely contrary to what is written in the documents that are today in front of the MPs. For that, I have some things to read from those documents. When we talk about the motion for a decision to call a Republic referendum in order to confirm the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in it decidently and clearly states that the Republic's referendum will take place on 16 January and that the question will be whether you are in favour of confirming the Act on the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is only true and correct that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will face when they come up for a referendum on the amendment to the Constitution, which refers, that is, to the part of the Constitution relating to the judiciary. What is important to say is that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is the highest legal act of a state whose standards clearly regulate the issue of importance for the functioning of the state, society and its institutions. It is very important to say that all legislative and sublegal acts must be in accordance with the Constitution, because the Constitution is the highest legal act, and I would say on the other hand and a political act. The important Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was declared on 8 November 2006, after it was adopted by the National Assembly at a special session held in September 2006. Before the final text of the 2006 Constitution, there were several drafts which were the subject of the public debate and in 2005 an opinion was asked by the Venice Commission, where the Venice Commission said in 2007 that certain objections and opinions made by them, relating to part of the judiciary, were not incorporated into the 2006 Constitution and expressed serious concern over the possible political influence in the choice of the holders of judicial functions and their concern was fully justified. A legal vacuum was created that both the 2006 Constitution and the National Strategy for Justice Reform created the basis for judicial reform that will be implemented in 2009 and 2010 when nearly 1,500 judicial officials remained on the street. What was important was that the political influence on the judiciary by 2012 was implemented from the National Assembly, but was also implemented from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This took a majority within the then ruling majority to bring the third branch of the government, then the judiciary under the direct political influence of the then DS. Today when we talk about changing the Constitution, we do all the opposite things that happened until 2012. We started this serious and responsible process a year ago, but we didn't hide what we were doing from anyone. That decision to start a change of constitution has been made by a two-thirds majority. That's what we discussed here in the National Assembly. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia could hear what our intentions were. I would also like to commend the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, I would like to commend the members of the Working Group, I would like to commend you Minister for one serious, responsible and transparent work. We can't say that this procedure was transparent and inclusive. We attended, or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation organised eight public hearings and these calls were transparent. We could have called and wanted to invite all relevant factors to take part in these discussions. Here at the home of the National Assembly, you will correct me, that was the eighth public hearing, were representatives of the NGO CEPRIS, that is the organisation in which the Management Board sits people who today and the previous year attack all of what we do, and as regards the change of the Constitution in the work of the judiciary. It is not true that anyone has been restricted the right to attend these public hearings. What is different and what we have to admit is that the actual difference compared to the period before 2012 and what is a big difference between all processes and actions that preceded the adoption of the 2006 Constitution is that there is an organised session where all the extraparliamentary parties are invited to express their opinions regarding the process of changing the Constitution. The session was attended by representatives of the Radical Party, there was enough of the People's Party and other political organisations and could say what they think. It is important that during this process we have faced opinions and that the result of these conflicts is the best solution we can see today in constitutional amendments. The task force has done a huge job, but this huge job has been the result of the desire of all of us to find the best solutions, that no one can say tomorrow that any member of the Working Party or any member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law has done something against the interests of his country or against the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What is important, the judiciary is independent, objective and impartial and much better organised than before 2012. Today you have an orderly network of courts, today you certainly have much less unsolved cases than that judicial reform left us when there were three million unsolved cases. What's important today, the holders of the judicial functions, the holders of the prosecutor's office, the presidents of the courts, they can be calm and calm today. All these things we do today we will in no way compromise their function, we will not compromise their position. That is clear and decadent in the draft constitutional law implementing the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You will not mind me, that because of these judicial officials, that they will be calm, that nothing will happen to their positions, it clearly states that the courts and the public prosecutors continue to work until the rules are in force, which, as well as the position of judges, bring the public prosecutors in line with the amendments, and that judges are elected to permanent office before the amendments continue to function in the courts in which they are elected. Do not listen, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to those who have led the judiciary under direct political influence, do not listen to those whom the third branch of the government has served to discipline those who were not in favour of the politics of the then DS and who made lists for the choice of judges, not at the Ministry of Justice, but who were tailored to DS headquarters in the Kronska Street, and then boasted that it was one of the best reforms of the judiciary that cost us 44m euros, which left behind three million unsolved cases and which completely destroyed and destroyed the network of courts that we 10 years later are trying to correct all these negative things. What matters is, I'll leave time for my colleagues to take part in this debate. The important thing is, we kept the division of power to legislative, executive and judicial. What is very important to say is that instead of earlier provisions for legislative, executive and judicial authority to be based on mutual control, it will be replaced by the words "intermediate verification" that describe in a more adequate manner the period of relations of three branches of government. It is important to say that, in the future meeting of the High Council of Justice, there will be no justice minister, that there will be no chairman of the board responsible for the judiciary, that we will remove that choice of judges in the High Council of the judiciary and that we will fully guarantee these changes the principles of continuity, incompetence of judicial functions which was clearly violated in the 2009 and 2010 reforms. No one must, and no one should be entitled to move judges beyond the legal provisions, and that judges, against constitutional and against the law, cease to be judges under the law. Clearly, in this act we also have a clearly defined organisation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, and in a clear way we have defined that no one can exert political influence on judges. I am extremely pleased at the end of this serious and responsible process that I have had the honour of participating with all of you in the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. I really think big and big changes require a certain flow of time. Although information now comes from the media that belongs to the representatives of the tycoon opposition that these are bad things. You will see, I am convinced that people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those who have direct contact with the judiciary will be proud of these things that we have done in the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11177	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ilija Matejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11178	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister with an associate, dear colleagues from the task force, and what I always say is that for me, the most important peoples of the Republic of Serbia, it is an extremely great honor to address today in front of this speaker, with a theme that is extremely important to the future of our country. We are at the end of a long process behind our Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, there are lots of sessions, lots of public hearings that we have had, there have been many working group sessions. So we're almost there. As far as the process itself is concerned, the process itself has been carried out as inclusively as possible, everyone could get in, any citizen and say anything that people did, and we respected everyone's arguments and for and against, we respected even criticism if they were good, and as far as the process itself was concerned, he was perfect. Even the representatives of the extraparliamentary opposition had a special session for themselves where they could declare these constitutional changes. As far as the process itself is concerned, there is no room for criticism, which would be objective. That is why I must commend Committee President Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, who fought most of our entire committee for these constitutional amendments. What our people would like to know is that the working group put these amendments together and worked hard and totally free of charge. So, they took the call they received from their country as a call from the team, and when the state calls you, you can't refuse it at all. And what work they have done tells us that the EU has given a positive opinion on all these amendments ahead of us, although it should always be noted that we are not doing this because of the EU, but because of the citizens of our country. As for the amendments themselves, I'll repeat what I've been saying, which we've all been saying since the first public hearing, which is that there is no re-election of judges first, which the judges, of course, were afraid of. It won't happen again long ago in 2009 when 1,000 judges are out of work and the consequences are still felt today. And what is the difference between today and the previous period is that before the judges were elected, so in 2009, on the municipal boards of the DS, and we ourselves hand over jurisdiction to elect judges to our High Council of Justice. What is more important is that there is no change in the preamble, that Kosovo and Metohija, what lies, these were notorous lies, become independent, that citizens will vote for it. I'll remind you that we even had protests in front of the National Assembly for that, and where these people didn't even read the amendments, they didn't even know why they were protesting. So, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, it remains our southern province, i.e. it remains part of the Republic of Serbia. Before the present referendum, we established the authority to put together arguments for and against the change of the Constitution and deliver them to all voters at their home address, which means that no one will be forced to vote. Everyone will vote with their own free will and no one will be forced in any way. So it all depends on the free will of the citizens. As far as the referendum, i.e. the questions to be asked in the referendum, is clear and unequivocal and read – are you willing to confirm the amendment of the Act of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? So the question has also been asked unequivocally and gives the citizen, i.e. the voter, a clear and precise answer, so neither does the question. If citizens decide to do so, we will give these constitutional changes a higher degree of judicial independence. So, our judiciary is already independent, but we're only giving it a higher degree of independence. In this process, we must be careful because it can happen, God forbid, that if we do not pay attention as a state, that we come to a situation where, say, BiH today, they have a constitutional court that makes up five judges, of which two judges are their strangers. So Serbia must not become a country where foreigners from outside the state, by the embassy, tell us how to work. And we saw during these roadblocks that foreign states and that they have an interest in the political developments that are happening in the Republic of Serbia. We need to stay who we are today and not let them have any influence. If citizens so decide, the degree of legal certainty in the Republic of Serbia will increase which will lead to more investment. I will remind you that so far we have brought more than 200 new companies, that we have reduced unemployment, for the first time in the history of the Republic of Serbia, to below 10% and that we will continue this trend. It doesn't mean, of course, that we all live here perfectly now and that we don't have to do anything, it means that we have to keep working harder. As far as the referendum itself is concerned, that will be the will of the citizens, and for those of us who are extended hands of those same citizens, will be crucial. As the citizens say, it's our duty. As the citizens tell us, it's the law for us. There's a lot of work behind us, a lot of responsibility ahead of us. I really hope that we as a state, therefore, not as we MPs, but as a state, will be able to turn behind us in a few years, look at today and say that we are proud of ourselves. Every session we held, every speech, every word we said was only for our citizens and our country, and if they decide to do so on 16 January, our country will take a big step towards a better future. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11179	Thank you. Last on the list, Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11180	Thank you. Dear Sir, Orlic, the esteemed Mrs Popovic, the esteemed Member of the People's Parliament and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have made it clear that the changes in the Constitution in the area of justice are in the interest of Serbia and its citizens. I agree absolutely with what she said today and Mrs Maja Popovic, Justice Minister and our Committee President, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, and as far as this is concerned, that these constitutional changes do not concern Kosovo and Metohija, the preamble remains, Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and changes to the Constitution concern only the judiciary. Why? Not to make the judiciary more independent, the judiciary is already independent in Serbia, but also because of recommendations from the Venice Commission and our European integration, and also because of the efficiency of the judiciary, that our judiciary becomes more effective. We know perfectly what we inherited about the judiciary in 2012, when the SNS took responsibility for power with coalition partners. They, the Democratic Party and their associates, destroyed the judiciary with reforms in 2009 and 2010. The almost destroyed judiciary has been improving since 2012 and progressing from year to year. But I would like to look back on these changes in terms of us not being MPs, like the legislative authority or you as executive authority, having this kind of control that has been so far. We'll have, in fact, one cooperation, one checking, which is good. But also, I would like that in the next period of those judges who are elected to office and those judges who have already been elected to office, do not be angry with us, the MPs and the people of the executive power when we comment on something. And how certain judges and presidents of the courts like to go to the canapes and cocktails and champagne at certain Western embassies and listen to the opinion of the Western embassies. Do not make certain judges not like to hear the comment of someone from the executive or legislative authority and like to hear the opinion of the Western embassies. A judge in Serbia should not listen to suggestions from any ambassador or embassy officer. The Serbian judge should be independent and should do his job effectively, in accordance with the constitution and in line with these constitutional changes that will follow. As for the work of the Working Group, I must also commend the work of the Working Group and all my colleagues from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, and the work of Justice Minister Maja Popovic, we have all worked together to make this text better, to clarify, we have worked on certain amendments, we have worked on making these changes and as regards the recommendations of the Venice Commission respected, and as regards their implementation. But in public hearings, I have to remind my fellow MPs, that it wasn't all so easy. We've had some criticism. But we didn't have the criticism of so much professional public. Most of the professors and deans of law schools, professional associations, representatives of the NGO sector co-operated with us and had one nice, normal suggestion. One part of that expert public, as a professor did, not to advertise it now, if it belongs to the NGO CEPRIS, which is commanded by a judge, is also not to name him now, not to advertise him, he has had criticism about constitutional changes, and I will tell you what criticism it was. It was criticised that Serbian citizens were not sufficiently educated, honest and professional. And that's what the NGO's representative said. The number two criticism was -- why are we politicians, why do we, from the legislative and executive authorities, influence the text and discuss it? And this man, who criticised it, is a member of the DS political council and a regular professor of law school hiding behind an NGO, CEPRIS. So, this hypocrisy of DS and their associates, that hypocrisy of all those who criticise constitutional changes and what SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic are doing, it is clear that they have no good intentions. They do not want Serbia as a democratic country ruled by both law and justice. The best example is everything that is happening these days and as far as Dusan Prokic is concerned, and according to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, during a tour of today's subway work in Zeleznik, which is only one confirmation that Serbia is building more and more every day. Dusan Prokic today, doctors are fighting for his eye, and he suffered injuries from one of the opposition leaders and one of the new political favourites Marinika Tepic, Šolak, Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, a certain Dragan Milovanovic Montenegro. So the rule of justice, justice, and respect for the Constitution do not suit them. They are affected by violence on the streets, blood on the streets, the tycoon rule of Gilas and Solak, the abduction of millions of euros from Serbian citizens, that people like Black are released, that they continue to fight those who stand in their way in any way, and that there is no condemnation when someone gets serious physical injuries or when his life is threatened because he doesn't belong to them. And who are they? They are a minority minority, a minority of minorities who are asking whether they will cross the census and who are depicted by various chickens in Morovic and who knows what everything and who knows all the statements, in what state they speak. So it is clear that everything that my fellow MPs are today, both counterpart Matejic and counterpart Kesar and all in turn, it is clear that constitutional changes in Serbia's judiciary area are necessary. I personally hope that the referendum will succeed, that citizens will recognize that what we are doing is also in Serbia's interest. Because everything that the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are doing and we here, the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, are doing with only one motive -- we are doing with a motive to implement a policy that is in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and of all its citizens, regardless of religion and nation. And such a policy is carried out every day by our president, Alexander Vukic. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11181	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since there are no more registered on the lists, does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11182	I want to thank all the MPs for the exhaustive discussion and ask you once again to vote tonight for the proposed acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11183	Thank you. Do MPs want a word? The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11184	Thank you. It is my pleasure to be able as an MP and as president of the United Peasant Party to support amendments to the Constitution, because I believe it, because it is necessary for our judiciary to be independent. It's been so far, but it'll be safer now. counterpart Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, who was chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, worked on it too, because she comes from Nis. Dear colleagues, respected citizens, I will vote for these amendments to change the constitution and I will invite all my people living in southeastern Serbia to come out and vote in a referendum.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-30-0.u11185	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) As no one has applied, I conclude a joint principled single search on the proposals for acts in point. 1, 2nd and 3rd agenda. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, members of the Task Force on the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in one valuable work, for the good communication and inclusion of all relevant sectors of society, including professional associations of judges and prosecutors. We shared with the Ministry of Justice and, with my personal involvement with the Venice Commission and on the spot at a plenary session of the Venice Commission, agreed to our views and got a positive opinion. I think it's very important, because there really is a consensus of the most important actors about this part of the Constitution right now. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, November 30th, 2021, starting at 1832 as the Day of Vote on Points of the Eighth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we make a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 190 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that the two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for an Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search, and before we move to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 203, paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, by two-thirds of the total number of MPs, adopts an act amending the Constitution. I am putting to the vote the Act's proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 196, for – 193, against – three. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by two-thirds of its total number of MPs. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Act on the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Before we move to a decision on the Constitutional Law proposal to implement the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 205(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Law, also brings a two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft constitutional law implementing the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 196, for – 193, against – three. I find the National Assembly by two-thirds of the total number of MPs has passed the Constitutional Law implementing the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The third item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE REFERENCE OF THE REPUBLIC REFERENCE FOR THE CONCERNATION OF THE ACT ON THE CHANGE OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA. Before moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision in general, it is necessary for the National Assembly to declare the existence of particularly justified reasons for the entry into force of the decision within eight days of the date of its publication. I remind you, point 7. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the decision to take effect earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 196, for – 193, against – three. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the decision within eight days of its publication. I would like to put the motion for a decision to call a Republic referendum to confirm the Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 196, for – 193, against – three. I find that the National Assembly has by two-thirds of the total number of MPs made a decision to call a republican referendum to confirm Atta's amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to congratulate all the MPs on making such important decisions, because the change of the Constitution is very important for every country. I also want to thank everyone who participated in this process once again. A referendum for 16 January will be called immediately after this session. I call on all citizens to take part in this referendum because it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the eighth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I would like to remind you that for the day after tomorrow, Thursday, December 02, I have scheduled a special session of the National Assembly of Duarte Pašek, President of the Interparliamentary Union, and for the 12.00 hours of the ninth session of the Second Regular Session with a proposal for a conclusion on the presentation of the European Commission Report on the Republic of Serbia for 2021 and a proposal for a decision to amend the election of members and deputies of members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. Just one more thing, I forgot to say, since this is an extremely important topic, Zagorka Aleksic, the People's MP of Unity of Serbia, has since become the mother of a child now two months old, it seems to me, has come to me to vote for this important act and I thank her and also congratulate her. Thank you.
