ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8990	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 98 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert their identification cards into the electronic unit. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8991	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an initiative to open the Malian crossing of Miratovac – Lojana is one of the older demands of Albanian representatives of the Presevo Valley, which has been directed to authorities in Belgrade since the beginning of the implementation of the plan and the crisis resolution programme in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja since 2001. The request was intensified even more when on January 8, 2005, a 16-year-old teenager returning from visiting relatives on the other side of the border was killed by members of Serbia-Montenegro. Following the incident with fatalities, it was said that the procedure for opening the small-scale crossing would be accelerated to allow people to move uninterruptedly in maintaining family ties and to make easier use of their border-side properties. Although more than once announced that this would happen quickly, it was even bid on the dates when the crossing would open and play, unfortunately the murder of Dashy Hajrullahhua did not bring about the fulfillment of the promise to open the crossings. In December 2019, then Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic signed in Skopje with Interior Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia Oliver the Spa Agreement establishing a common border crossing between Miratovac and Lojana, as well as an Agreement on Co-operation in the area of combating trafficking in human beings and migrant smuggling. Speaking of an agreement establishing the Miratovac-Lojane border crossing, Stefanovic then noted that its opening would speed up the transport of goods. This transition is important for regional trade. We have already discussed customs reliefs and what was the idea and the project of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is that we work together to make citizens cheaper, to be less customs and to have faster flow of people and goods, then Minister Stefanovic explained. However, even after this signed agreement, there was no opening of this small border crossing. Now that the new Open Balkans initiative is signed, which is supposed to be an economic zone between Albania, northern Macedonia and Serbia, it is likely that conditions are finally being created to open the border crossing. That's why my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia - when and will the border crossing of Miratovac - Lojana be opened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8992	I thank the People's Parliament. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8993	Thank you, Dr. President. An eagle. Dear colleagues, I will ask the question concerning the work of the southeast of Serbia, Nis, as the centre of the southeast of Serbia. Otherwise, I would like first to thank "The Ways of Serbia" who have finally managed to finish part of the road, to change it, to reconstruct it. This part of the road I was talking about 2018, 2019 is the road from Malcana loop to the very entrance to Nis. That path was put into operation in the best way. It is expected, normally, to be done and marked, since it has not yet been marked. My question is: is there a possibility that in this part of the road, from Malcana loop, down to the Book’s Street, public lighting is made because it is already an urban part of the city, because there is a large number of legal entities that are very active, which employ more than 1,000 people and are necessary for them to put public lighting in that part of the road in order to establish the possibility of people being protected because unwanted things were happening, because individuals coming from foreign countries have been passing through Serbia, doing these certain criminal acts and causing damage to our economic operators? Question -- is there any chance that part of the road could be lit up? Another question that concerns you and the work is also referred to "The Ways of Serbia" and the competent ministry – is there a possibility, since when the highway from Nis to Sofia was made, there is no crossing left for the entry into Niska Banja... By the way, Niška Banja is very recognizable as a tourist center, it has large capacities to be exploited, but there is now no exit and entrance to Niška Banja. We have the possibility, an idea project to make from Malcanic loops over the average entrance to the Niška spa, so that all those who want to go to Nis, to the Nisska Banja, to see the beauty of the Nis baths that they can go there and really see what they're worth. I think it's over necessary. That's the need of all of us. In addition to having the opportunity to go to Niška Banja, to see the beauty of Niška Banja, there will be an opportunity to create another entrance to Niša, to free the entrance, because there is a great frequency of traffic that will now go across Malčana loop and Književska Street. There's a great chance to do it, there's a project. There's supposed to be an expropriation of the country. My question to the competent ministry, "The Ways of Serbia" – when and will this approach be made via Proseko from Malcanka loop to Niška Banja? One of the important questions I've been asking before, and now I'm going to ask it one more time, which is the MUP, and it's about our hunters who are very active now in nature's protection, who are very active and in the fight against this crown, against infection, African swine fever, and they are related to the supply of weapons. Since I have repeatedly said that there is going on that someone from the house, a minor, an excess, a parent who is a hunter, I would ask that a working group be formed within the framework of the MUP and the Hunting Union of Serbia, and that it is amortised, to give opportunity. One of the important things is a large number of hunters, over 30% of hunters are people who work in the police or in the military, people who have guns every six months have health checks. Is there any possibility that these people, who are hunters who work in the police, work in the military, are not doing health checks in some private hospitals, private clinics, but are doing so in their health institutions, is it military hospital, city hospital or center? This is very important precisely because these people are already working with weapons, having health checks and working in the interests of Serbian citizens. Another great thank-you to the President of the Hunting Union, Bratislava Cirkovic, who, by his engagement, has actively put the Hunting Union of Serbia on a larger stage, which is already very recognizable, not only here in Serbia, but also in Europe. Thanks again and I expect answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8994	Thank you. The word is Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8995	Thank you, Chairman. At yesterday's meeting of the ambassadors of EU member states, Serbia was granted a green list of countries safe to travel to EU countries. Such a decision to keep Serbia out of the green but on the Red List of the Council of Europe came as a result of the rapid deterioration of the epidemiological situation in Serbia and the rapid growth of the number of Kovid-19 infected. The basic criterion for a country to be found on the green list is that in the last 14 days there are fewer than 75 infected on 100,000 inhabitants. Unfortunately, Serbia has 82 people infected with 100,000 people and with the trend of growth, according to the bill. It is obvious that other criteria have also been taken into account in the EU, of which the number of patients tested daily is important for us, the number of patients who are sick daily, as well as the implementation of vaccination measures. The decision is expected to be formalised these days in the Council of Europe. I hope everyone understands what it means for the citizens of Serbia and how dramatic this decision can be for all of us. This decision means that Serbian citizens, except for those who have citizenship of some EU member states or residence permits, will not be able to travel to the EU or to EU member states. This option exists if you have a certificate of vaccination, which will be viewed and is already looking at what type of vaccine you have received. It means that our citizens will now officially have a difficult access to everything related to travel to EU member states, with each member having different requirements to reduce the risk of spreading the pandemic that exists when foreigners enter. So the Czech Republic, next to the PCR test, is looking for a mandatory quarantine for our citizens. We are only allowed to enter Germany if we are vaccinated with one of the vaccines recognised by the European Medicines Agency. It enters Italy with a negative PCR or an anti-gen test and a mandatory self-insulation of five days after a test that must be done upon entry into the country. Romania has also taken Serbia off the green list and so on. If we know that in the greatest offensive of the virus, Serbia has shown great responsibility in fighting Kovid-19, that we were one of the first countries of the world to provide all available vaccines, then the fact that Serbia has been placed on the EU's red list is devastating and completely devastates all the state and health measures that the government and the Ministry of Health and all the competent authorities have taken over the past year and a half. What is it that despite all the government's efforts to provide its citizens with health conditions for the treatment of this vicious pandemic, which in this wave prevails with a soybean that expands up to seven times faster, what is it that citizens can or cannot interfere with protecting themselves by vaccination? The state has done everything on its part to motivate citizens to vaccinate, even with monetary stimulation, and not to talk about other ways of motivation, such as free tickets for various cultural and sports manifestations. The Ministry of Finance's estimate that economic growth will be 6.5% at the end of this year, which will allow for further salary and pension increases, and to remind ourselves that the minimum labour price has increased by 9.4% last week. However, these objectives can only be realised if the positive trend, i.e. the reduction of Kovid-19 sufferers, is ensured. We must not allow the re-commitment to occur, both the factory, the tourist, the catering facilities, and the school, because it would be deadly for our economic development. The only way to adequately protect ourselves is vaccines. Experts have confirmed the safety of the vaccine. However, the impression is that as citizens, we are quite relaxed when it comes to this pandemic. In this regard, I would like to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia - is it in the context of putting Serbia on the EU's red list and the daily increase in the number of affected governments intending to take additional measures to ensure an increased response from citizens to vaccinations? Also, these last few days have been a topic of concern and covid - passes, and I would ask the public what exactly is meant by them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8996	Thank you. The word is held by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Stefan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8997	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear People's MPs, on July 13th, I asked the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Village Care on behalf of Serbian citizens who live in poorly populated mountain-mounted and mining areas, whether it is feasible for them to form so-called. "The rural municipalities" thus obtain the opportunity to decide to a greater extent on the needs and development of their local communities. I specifically warned that unless a general and general-civil front is formed quickly for the rescue of the village of Bauk, the Desert country threatens to devastate not only the entire village, but also smaller urban areas of Serbia. I am also responsible from the Ministry of Environmental Care for the current texts of the Law on Territorial Organization, the Law on Local Self-Government of the New Municipality can be established on a territory where less than 10,000 inhabitants live, where there are specific economic, geographical or historical reasons. Also, this reminds the ministry that unfortunately, the concept of a village as a territorial unit and a social community do not currently recognise the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so neither the laws on territorial organisation nor local self-government. The Ministry also announces an initiative to amend the existing Law on Territorial Organization, the Law on Local Self-Government, as well as the possibility of launching an initiative for the adoption of a specific village law. However, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are directly part of my question – whether it is possible to enter the process of establishing new municipalities on the basis of existing legal solutions and without amending the law on territorial organisation, it is necessary to establish a proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on Territorial Organisation. The answer doesn't seem consistent, because Article 11(3). The Law on Territorial Organization, as well as Article 17(2) and Article 18(4). The law on local self-government suggests exactly the opposite. Therefore, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are asking for further clarification of this response. Once again, I ask for the answer and for a part of my previous parliamentary question that I am not answered, and that is - According to the Law on Territorial Organization in Serbia, 30 local self-government has the status of the city, and the city on its territory can form special city municipalities, why are you based so-called. "city municipalities" are normally established in urban areas, not in larger villages that also belong to the territory of these cities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8998	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u8999	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. My parliamentary question is not about day-to-day political events, it's about a sad anniversary. Today, 28 years ago, so on September 9, 1993, one of the most terrible crimes against Serbs in Republika Srpska was committed by Croatia in so-called Croatia. Operation ‘Medical pocket’. This crime, which many call "Blood September in Lica", began, as I said on September 9th at the early morning hours of a surprise attack by the Croatian army on Lika Villages in the vicinity of Gospić. It was the village of Citluk, Pocitel, Divoselo and Medak, where the Serbs seemed an absolute majority for centuries, which were back 18 months under the official protection of the UN, so-called. "Blue helmets" or Uprephora, as you wish. Croatia's aggression has been the third in a row of aggression against Republika Srpska since spring 1992, since Republika Srpska's Krajina was placed under international protection. So, there was the first attack on Miljevaci Plato at Drnis in July 1992 when 40 Serbian militiamen and members of the territorial defence were killed and massacred in a particularly cruel and brutal manner. After only half a year, in January 1993, there was another aggression, so-called aggression. Operation Maslenica, or attack on Ravne Kotara in Northern Dalmatia when 348 people of Serbian nationality were killed. So both soldiers and civilians, and exiled by over 10,000 Serbs who have lived in these areas for centuries. Many Serbian villages were destroyed and burned on that occasion, and the most serious crime was the slaughter of Mali Alan, when 22 members of the Serbian army of Krajina were killed and massacred, leading us to Croatia's third aggression, hence the Medak pocket, where 88 Serbs were brutally killed, of which 46 soldiers, six militiamen and 36 civilians. Among the killed civilians were 26 people over 60, of which 17 women. The mentioned villages of Medak, Chitluk, Pocitel and Divoselo were completely destroyed, robbed and burned. Croatian Army Commander Janko Bobetko, then Chief of General Staff of the Croatian Army, Rahim Ademi, then commander of the military area Gospić and Mirko Norac, then commander of the 9th. The frame brigades. Janko Bobetka's indictment was never served because he passed away in 2003 so that the UN tribunal would move the case to the Croatian judiciary in September 2005, and that was the first time, precedent at that time, that the UN tribunal would settle a case, some case to a national court. The direct consequence is that Rahim Ademi was released, absolutely freed from responsibility, and Mirko Norac was sentenced to more than symbolic, I would say, seven years in prison for acts of non-preventing the murder of civilians, looting property, killing and torturing prisoners of war, and that the Supreme Court of Croatia would, a few years later, reduce him from seven to six years later. Not to mention that during his six years of service, he had a child and got married and graduated from college, etc. what he's talking about is how he actually served his time. During the trial, there were ghastly details and testimonies of the various forms of monstrosity and experiences against civilians, such as decapitation, decapitation, cake, burning, etc. Especially important is the testimony of the UN Force Commander in Croatia to French General Jean Kot since 19 September 1993, so right after UNPROFOR took control of that area, and he said on that occasion, I quote - I did not find signs of life or people or animals in several villages through which we went, the destruction was complete, systematic and deliberate. Also, the result of this aggression is that this area in Lika is practically devastated at the time. So, according to the 1991 census, 563 residents lived in the village of Medak, today only 60, in the village of Počitel 307, today all four, in the village of Chitluk 129, today all three, while in Divosel of 344 residents today there is no one left. Given that almost no one has been responsible for these crimes, I am asking the foreign ministry a question - whether all available measures have been taken so far during bilateral meetings with Croatian officials, and in order to find and process all those responsible for this, but also all other crimes, because until this happens, until the Croats face their past, until they stop reviewing history, with the treading of basic human rights of Serbs and rehabilitation of the constitution, Croatia cannot plead to be a democratic and European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9000	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We are moving to a joint single search from the proposals for decisions set out in points 8 to 10 of the agenda. According to Article 19(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: Dr. Jorvanka Tabakovic, Governor of the National Bank of Serbia and Dejan Devic, Director-General of the National Bank of Serbia's Legislative Affairs Directorate, which I welcome here. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a decision to elect the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the Proposal for a decision to elect members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vucic – Together for our children and the Proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee, on a proposal from the same parliamentary group. Does the Proposer, or the Proposer's representative, want to speak at the beginning of the debate? Yeah. The word has a governor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9001	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic, it is my great pleasure to have the opportunity today as governor of the NBS and the honor to explain before you the motion for a decision that Mrs. Ana Ivkovic, once again be elected Vice Governor of the NBS. The adoption of this decision is important because it is in agreement with the provisions of the NBS Vice-Governer Act, acting as a member of the NBS Executive Board, the body making the most important decisions in the field of monetary and foreign policy and financial system stability, and the timely selection of the Vice-Governmental Board at the same time provides both the smooth work and continuity of the work of this body. It is not less important, however, that this election further confirms Serbia's development policy on healthy macroeconomic foundations that lasts for years, the stability and continuity policy of the NBS' 2012 results, with the ever-present and crucial support of Alexander Vukic, first of all, from the post of Prime Minister and then the President of the Republic. Without this direct crucial support from the NBS, it would be much more difficult to achieve its objectives and tasks without these objectives and results, but we would also not be so proud today of the extraordinary results in the area of economy that we achieve as a state and which, I am confident, we will also achieve in the coming period. Although we have recently seen each other at the Committee's session, the competent assembly body, which, in good and regular practice, is responsible for the NBS before them, and to the National Assembly through the Committee, we also place accounts for business and the results of work in the previous year. In addition, I will take the opportunity to point out in a few words, as soon as possible, some of the most important results we have achieved in the previous period and which are supported by the most recent data. I'm doing this first of all because of those who think the results come true easily, that they come from themselves. They get used to everything that's good in the economy, as if it's something that's been given in itself, ignoring what hard work is behind it, which are concrete people behind this work and the obstacles that preceded the results we've achieved, and forgetting, it seems to us, an even easier state of economy and basic macroeconomic indicators before 2012. For all these reasons, I would just like to remind the MPs, and the citizens, the general public that we found high inflation double-digits in 2012 within a year and we kept it at an average level of about 2%. This also preserves the real value of the incomes of the economy, wages and all receipts of Serbian citizens. Predictable business conditions are being created, which is extremely important for all those who want to do business and last long, and I hope that's the goal for everyone. In doing so, the dinar has increased by 0.9% according to the euro. The National Bank of Serbia has bought 3.46 billion euros in the foreign exchange market since then, including over one billion euros in nine months this year. Finally, on yesterday, we bought a billion and 600m euros. The gross foreign exchange reserves are at a record level of 15.6 billion euros at the end of August. Since August 2012, we have increased them by 5.5 billion euros, and the net foreign reserves are more than doubled. Let me also point out that since the end of 2012 we have increased the reserve in gold by more than 21 tonnes to date. Today they are 36.8 tonnes, they are almost doubled, while their value is tripled. At that time, it was worth 600m euros, and today it is worth a billion and 818 billion euros. This is only a small part of what has been achieved in the past nine years, in all of this with my team and all employees in the National Bank, I have also participated in Mrs. Ana Ivkovic, who, due to her undisputed expertise, rarely seen, incredible commitment to work and excellent quality work, and this time I have proposed as a candidate for Vice Governor. You have details of her work résumés in the material submitted in the Election Proposal and I would not like to repeat the indisputable facts that point to her rich professional experience and development within the National Bank of Serbia, where she spent most of her working life on various executive and executive functions. We chose Ana Ivkovic together on my proposal and with your consent and votes as Vice-Governor in 2018 and she fully justified the trust we shared in the previous period, and in particular in the joint work she demonstrated the unwaveringness and results in the part of negotiations and co-operation with international financial institutions, investment houses and rating agencies, in the most complicated jobs, where it is necessary to defend the interests of the Republic of Serbia, while not allowing Serbia to be a field for economic experiments of various experts who see Serbia as only one step in its own career development. I would especially like to point out, unlike some of the former times, when often state interests were subordinated to the interests of individuals from state institutions who sought to use this for their own promotion and later intensification in one of the international organisations, Anna was as a person of integrity and incompatible trade influences to show tenacity, uncompromising when it comes to fighting for the true representation of Serbia and its economic results both in the country and abroad. Because of these people, who make up the team of the National Bank of Serbia that I have gathered, I rarely say – I must say this time that this is my choice, but because of the excellent coordination of this team of National Bank of Serbia, with representatives of other state institutions and the coordination I have in the field of monetary, economic and fiscal policy, but also the amazing work of the President of the Republic and his team, with clear goals towards Serbia's development, we can say that Serbia's rating is one step away from the investment level and that the risk premium is significantly reduced and far from the extremely favourable level that existed before 2012. We do not need to mention in particular how much this has affected the total amount of investments since 2012. Since 2013 it is worth as much as 22 billion euros, to which these factors have contributed to reducing the cost of borrowing of the state, economy and citizens, without sales and privatisation, but by building new factories and capacities. In view of everything I have put forward, and above all, that the proposed candidate for Vice Governor Ana Ivkovic's work so far provides a guarantee that this function will succeed in the interests of the citizens and our country as well. I thank you for your trust and time to explain so far, and I call on the MPs to support this proposal. Thanks again for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9002	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word is made by the chairman of the committee responsible, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9003	Dear President-in-Office, honourable Governor, fellow Members, we discussed on the Committee on 24 July the work reports for the previous year of the National Bank of Serbia, as well as every July, since the National Bank's Rules of Procedure have its deadlines when it submits six months and a year's reports for the previous year, but then we received a proposal based on a law that should have expired 90 days before the post for Vice Governor, Governor Dr. Jorgovanka Tabakovic's proposal to be Mrs. Ana Ivkovic. Before the proposal itself, we had, indeed, the opportunity to hear what the results of the National Bank of Serbia were, but as an integral part of the overall result of economic reforms and the economy run by both the government and the president of the state in co-operation with the NBS. That's what I think the governor's always pointing out that without that synergy, there's no result. This has been shown over the past eight years, that it really gives very good envious results and thus gives us the recognition of all international financial organisations. You had the opportunity to hear yesterday that some projection that this year will end not with 6% of GDP growth as we adopted the budget at the end of 2020, but by 7.5% although the Ministry of Finance is conservative and says that it will be 7% of this GDP growth this year, but what is most significant, and these are the results directly from the NBS that the monetary and economic stability of this country is preserved. The rate of inflation that did not endanger the economy has been preserved, and thanks to that, last year, which has been very difficult for the whole world, for all countries in the region, has been the least difficult for us. With investments of three billion euros in the pandemic era, the end of the last year has indeed been the results of both the Serbian and NBS governments. I will speak when there is a order of MPs on these results of the National Bank, so that I will not really make a proposal that was on the agenda point, a proposal for the Vice Governor to be Ana Ivkovic, so that he does not stay out of sight. I think it's good to adopt a proposal like this because we have something to say about people who are really on the governor team and that shows that without people like this, institutions simply can't function. In 1974, Ana Ivkovic graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, doctorate at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, from 1999 to 2001 worked at the Belgrade Bank of A.D. in the Research and Development Sector, and nearly most of her working age was spent in the NBS since 2002, and apparently a step by step, she moved the step by step into her career advancement to reach the vice-registrator and she showed, in fact, that she was qualified to perform not only one mandate but two mandates. That's what the governor was saying, that she participated in all the important projects of this country, especially when it comes to co-operation with the EU, and that she has not left out her scientific and research work, especially when she has published her own work, I think it's an interesting topic, because we on the Committee often talk about it, which is the dollarisation, the possibilities of dedolarisation of the financial system, and then the inflow of foreign capital, whether these are incentives or challenges for economic development at all, if the money market in Serbia, the past, the present and the future. I think it shows that we have a person who has completely rounded up knowledge in this area and that it is indeed adequate to support both the governor and the institution, such as the NBS, and I think we need to support this proposal by the governor, because that is why we are showing that we will have better and better results for the next years. I think we should support this proposal by Ms. Governor, because that is why we show that we will have better and better results in the coming years and that the National Bank projections of what will be done for us in the future are one security when we talk about the economy, that Serbian citizens can sleep peacefully regardless of the challenges that simply meet us every day. It is the most significant, in fact the message and this proposal and the session that we have in relation to the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds. In the voting day, the Committee calls for all MPs to declare and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9004	I thank the Finance Committee. We move on to representatives and presidents of parliamentary groups. First, ahead of the parliamentary group Justice and Reconciliation Party, the United Peasant Party, Vice President Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9005	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly chairing, the Honorable Governor of the National Bank with an associate, the Honorable Second Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, the election of the Vice Governor is a very important commitment that is here today before us. This obligation has its formal and its certainly essential side. The view of biography makes it clear that the candidate, or candidate, meets all the conditions in order to make a choice in such an important position both by responsibility and by honor. Otherwise, in every society, or state, when we succeed or succeed in establishing a balance between responsibility, senses of responsibility, and feelings of honor, or honor for a particular function, it will mean that we have the right people, the right people in the right place. It is much easier to succumb to the feeling that it is an honor and privilege to be in a certain position, as is the one we are dealing with today, than to maintain full awareness of responsibility. However, I am pleased to hear what I have now heard from the esteemed governor and certainly what we normally follow when it comes to macroeconomic indicators that clearly point to the fact that we have a very important stabilisation in recent years and now we can already show stability, not only a good stabilisation process in both the field of macroeconomic, economic and fiscal and monetary indicators. So the fact that over the past years we have managed to increase foreign reserves, both those in the gross variant, and in the net variant, by more than 30% as I have followed, is really fascinating and for each one is congratulating, support and commendation. Especially the fact that over the past few years, gold reserves have been increased by, as far as I've calculated, over 125%. So 15 tons were found, and now that's 36 percent, right? (Jorganka Tabakovic: comma eight. ) Point eight, I do do it more on round when there are large figures, although gold always needs a decimal, because it's very valuable. So a 21-ton increase is really fascinating. Of course, gold has its glare and shouldn't hit us in the eye with the glare of gold, and we will quickly overcome the very feeling of benefits and pleasure and pleasure for these indicators and figures, but what's more important than this reflection itself is actually the importance of this data. What does that really mean? What's the simplified view of the National Bank? This is the Treasury of the State. To run the National Bank of the State means to run the Treasury of the State. Having good governance of the country's cash register means having certainty that neither economic, fiscal, nor monetary can be ruined. So that's what's actually a picture that every citizen can understand. I learned the basics of the economy in my family, and then I met three principles of economy that I didn't appreciate in my early youth as much as I do now. These are three basic postulates on which every good household functioned. You know, in my village, and I suppose in every other or every wave, you've had the only graduation between households and families, which is legal and legitimate, which is that there's a home and homeless house. The third category didn't exist. What was the difference between a house and a homeless house? So the home house respected these three principles of the household economy, which is that all the locals work maximum, to spend as much as necessary, and that no one steals. So the house that had these three personalities was a home house. Non-domestic houses were by much the same as household homes, but they just didn't have these three properties or any of these three properties. So the house where the people in the house work maximum, not sloths, spend as much as necessary and don't steal, that house can't fail. The state is one big house, one big family that's organized by almost the same principles. It's true, digression works, and I later learned as much as I could, although it's not my primary field of education for economics, but because of the various jobs and roles that I've been doing, I've been doing economics and theoretically expecting to find out something, God knows new. Let me tell you right now, don't make me angry with economists. I didn't really find out much. I've often come into a problem, certain confusions where I can't tell exactly in the economy like, I'm not going to say as science, but as a scientific discipline, that I can't tell what was really supposed to be written in those theories, and what economic or economist theorists deliberately put in to complicate the theory that only they would understand it, and that the rest of us don't understand it enough to be dependent on them. I'm in these dilemmas today, but it's a subject for some symposium or some other debate, not just for this opportunity. But they're not the only ones, the lawyers are even better at telling you right now, but it's also a topic for a different story, because the only one who's complicated is he who knows how to get along in that complex, that is, in that complicated material. So the more I read about the economy and the economy, the more I valued these three principles that I was as a child when my parents woke me up at half-six in the morning to do some work for them as their oldest child, because you have to do some work, help your parents before you go to school five kilometers away, and where class starts at half eight. So, that economy, or those principles of economics, I had then mastered and never until now have I been betrayed. That is why the state as one large family that is only different from that one floor, complexity, according to the layer of its household and, of course, by the burden itself to actually carry out its stately, or domestic relationship, because it is precisely the role of the household, the role of the house is to protect its householders. Why the concept of houses? Not only in the basic meaning but also in some artistic, literary meaning, it has a much deeper meaning than the object in which it lives, in which it lives. I don't know if there was an expression in other parts of Serbia, but in some direct communication, there was even an expression if the mother told the child or sister to the brother - my house. So in the enthusiasm of expression, love, a relationship that is much more than some simple emotion that through emotion reflects the security of having someone you love, who protects you. It's a house, it's actually a part of the country itself. Why does it feel in the house or - go home everywhere? Why can't any other space give you a sense of home? A feeling that you can only have in your home, or in your home? Because right next to the elemental space you're living in, it's the house that gives you a real sense of online emotion, of security, and especially for those citizens who aren't responsible for that house, because responsibility holders are always the strongest and those who have the capacity to protect themselves, but also to protect others, those who are less powerful to protect themselves. It's children in the house, which is what they say is "enemity," and in the country they're ordinary citizens. Therefore, these are the dimensions which are of particular importance which should be considered a little more frequently with the state's responsibility positions. Of course, on the same basis is the notion of a home that even more warmly expresses the same meaning although I notice in Serbia many avoid using the term home because they somehow handed it over to the Croats and if the concept is home, to inform you, the same Serbian word as the Bosnian word, and that is why I think it's wrong in the language because someone is more often using a word, we are now uninformed, ignorant about what the root of that word is, or whether it's ours or not, we are simply because it's someone we think of one way or another, using and we immediately stop using it. It's very wrong from a linguistic cultural aspect, because it means poverty in your language. That means giving up your words. Of course, both in Serbian and Bosnian languages are both domestic words and home and country and country and such concepts, so there is no need to poverty your language. Why is the country home? Of course, the country is more pronounced in Serbian because of perhaps cultural patriarchal approaches, so it binds home to father and does not bind to mother. It is again another cultural dimension that is completely legitimate and perfectly fine and all these concepts are perfectly fine and the notion of a country actually indicates that the father is responsible, which is totally fine, even for me as a Muslim from the position of Islamic, ethnic and spiritual point of view, is this concept closer for reasons, more meaningful in this dimension, because in Islamic learning the father is responsible for the family. It is he who is responsible for security and security, as well as for all those rough and important obligations such as supply and such as security. It is the mother who gives the spirit to the family, who gives the spirit home, who gives the spirit to the home, who is responsible for those ethical and aesthetic nuances of raising and forming a family, or forming children. So, to feel the state, the state that manages to, besides being a state, and here, and if we are already an etimology, the state in our language, that's how we got that name, we didn't vote on why the state is called the state, but we accepted it without a vote, because language has its own legality in creation and development, but it's definitely because something states hold. Now she can hold it in various ways. It also holds the boundaries, also holds the citizens' side, holds to responsibility, holds to various duties and duties, but as you can see, the state does not have this warmth of words that there is a country in a small stricter version, but really close and firmer or as there is a country in an even warmer version. That's why it takes the state to get a soul, which is actually that invisible aspect of responsibility. We have these formal parameters that hold to all the responsibilities that the state has, or bearers of these responsibilities in the state, but it is very important that the state has a soul, as the family has a soul. Who has the right to be the homeowner? Well, the one who has the capacity to take care of others, not just himself. So that's the meaning of having a responsibility in the household. Now, that's exactly the analogy we have responsibilities in the country itself. That's why the choice at the head of the National Bank is exactly what I think these reflections are. How am I supposed to know what kind of candidate he's proposing essentially, except formally? Well, I can't tell you right now, I don't want to investigate, I'm a man who knows he believes, who knows he has trust. For me, trust is a rule, not a trust exception. I always believe until proven otherwise. As long as someone doesn't, I'll trust him. It's something that's meant to be, because if we trust someone to be governor of the National Bank and who's been doing it successfully for a few years now, not by some assessment that can be political, friendly or not know what, but by the parameters that are unorthodox and that we've heard and that I've repeated among other things. If we trust that such an institution we give to someone and someone doesn't let down that trust after so many years, let me say, checked out on the ground of the execution of that trust, or that responsibility, then it's quite logical that we will also trust them in the candidate proposal, in terms of those essential invisible things, ethical, human, which involve trust. What are the basic parameters to have when choosing people and giving them certain responsibilities? So these are three basic parameters that are inevitable if we really want it to be fit. Here, a little more etymology, I don't know if you were wondering where you came from. So it's an Arabic word that you know basically, from a frame, powerful, from verbs -- cadres in Arabic language that means power something. Therefore he who is fit, who is able, and not able is he who is incapacitated. So, frameing means bringing capable people to the desired, or necessary positions. Three basic conditions are always to be followed, i.e. keep in mind. The first one is ethical, that means loyalty. So you need to be loyal. Of course, we have little loyalty spent in various political uses, otherwise it is a wonderful word, because it is immediately thought of by a loyal party and loyal to a politician. No, loyalty to the cause, first of all. However, whoever is loyal to the cause, whoever is loyal to what he is in charge, will easily be loyal to both the party and everyone else. Why? Because he is brought here to do good, and if he does good, he will light his face to all and he will easily be loyal to all. Therefore, the first condition is loyalty, which is an ethical quality, i.e. loyalty and an ethical ability to wear what you are responsible for. The second condition is the ability that implies expertise, that means the second condition. The third condition is commitment. So, the effort that needs to be made. I need these fingers on this side to show, not to be photographed by these mines, because if I start on this side, then I have to explain why I raised these three fingers. So these are three key aspects that every organization, every host, every bearer of responsibility, as much as he respects them will never be wrong. So, if someone is loyal, or loyal, if he is professional, or capable, if he is dedicated, committed, he makes an effort, therefore, that whenever he can be chosen, he should be appointed and such a household should be voted for, and such a state, such an organization, such a National Bank, whichever institution with such principles will always be successful and good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9006	I thank the esteemed vice president for his inspired presentation, who apparently knows the word “when ” that he says in our people that“ when he arrives and escapes. ” So I thank you for reminding me of what it means to be able. Next on the list is the governor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9007	I have to thank Mr. Zukorlic, who I usually see live for the first time, because I believe that people who can follow the work of the National Assembly today, because of the topic that is on the agenda, the election of Ana Ivkovic as a vice governor, knowing that I have no secret in front of them and knowing that you and I do not know each other, are probably now wondering how it is possible that Mr. Zukorlic was talking about expertise, loyalty, commitment and loyalty in the way I speak to my team when we talk to young people and when we make decisions on our executive boards. They're probably wondering how it's possible that someone with whom I have a geographical maybe proximity, because I'm from Vučitrn, a town that's close to New Pazar, well, a lot of neighbors where similar values have been shared, where the house was basic, and what you carry in the house your whole life, and that support that you get in the house, and the principles that you get in the house, and all your life, maybe it's just like me, and it's just like reminding me of and getting out of numbers and setting up a philosophical framework for what we all do, and through the etimology of each word. So I thank you for the presentation that speaks of somewhere forgotten or insufficiently sound values, because some other values are being promoted, and I am proud to point them out again. That you show loyalty to your country in a way that if you do work properly, as for your house, you show loyalty to your citizens by commitment, work and results, and never by choosing your associates, I have done by being a woman or a man, how old he is, by quotas, by, perhaps a little old-fashioned, for me, it is most important that a man, if I can say insan, in the right sense, is a man, independent of half and that he is professional and that he wants to work for people and people. And when someone tells me, but you have a team. It's like when someone tells me, you have a house. Well, yeah, why don't you build a house. That house that you were talking about the way you talked about, because the house is neither a roof nor a chimney, the house is people, the family we rely on, and that's why I think about my political begraund, my party is my family, I think of the whole country as something that is entrusted to me, and what I said in the first speech, I'm taking it back to the revolving, and I'm obliged to return it more, now the data is already talking about, how much bigger and they don't have to believe what they say, who don't love you, they'll never love you, whatever you do for them, and those who believe in the results, not only the word, and the word was always the first word, and it's everything, I take care about whether an open bottle of water should be thrown or if you can't drink it to fly flowers that's in the hallway. Without this philosophy, togetherness, desire to last long and together, no success can be achieved. My associates are family people, Anna has two children, the best students, she comes by work and does it and don't mind my privacy. Anna, meanwhile, became a widow, and believe it or not, one single day away, one single hour away, except for the duration of the funeral, she wasn't by the phone. The hospital responds to e-mails, arranges, responds, schedules, receive instructions. And not just Anna. I have two other vice governors, Zeljko Jovic, also the father of two children, Dragan Stanic, unfortunately, she only has one girl, but these are people living for the National Bank. Don't mind this. My Dejan, who is here with me, runs the Legislative Legal Affairs Directorate, and he travels every day from Smederev, also a family man, is lucky to have children, and thus extends his view and sense. If I were to tell you now that I know the names of the children of all my associates, that I know who in the crown got sick, died, that this woman is in business or associates. I live for twenty-four hours at the National Bank. I also dream of what happens to me every day and make plans, I'm lucky that I'm a widow, that my children, three children, are big and modest, live their lives, and they fully understand my commitment to my work, because they start a tenth year in a house that was destroyed, where they were departments of what they do and who they do for themselves, but everyone has some of their own lives, so they're making money, and today they're gonna be a team where no meetings with the International Organization are held with one sector, but preparatory meetings, until we agree on the position and we agree on the position of the mother of Serbia, the country of Serbia and what needs to be defensive, in 20, 30 years, forever. It shines gold, but we have it in the vault of the National Bank of Serbia, and not only does it have a beautiful glow, but because keeping it in the vaults of the National Bank of Serbia costs the least, and today money is spent, it has negative interest, so it costs us the least to have some of the foreign reserves in gold, because gold doesn't ask for bread or water. It's in our building. I'm not blinded by the results either, I'm a woman who knows, if you've made 30 years of lunch by yesterday, you don't live out of glory, and the next day you have to make a lunch just as good as you have to, and as a woman, mother, do everything you have to do. That principle of family relations, but I'm not very gentle, I'm a very strict mother, and I'm not ashamed of it, because the rules you put children on the right path and guide them when they're wrong. I'm really proud to be running a house with a reputation, but also a support I have to repeat. From the moment Mr. Alexander Vucic became Prime Minister, laying the foundation of what is called the two hands working together, monetary and fiscal policy, because the state is one body, and that these two hands are tightly held and working together, it speaks of results that I will not purposely bring out, because I have, operational data on foreign direct investments, also told the President of the Republic, and I expect it to carry them out. Not because he is older in office, not because I personally respect him, and I respect him very much, but because this is largely the result of his commitment and work to bring investors into Serbia. I don't want to get the information out, but it's impressive. That's how it works in a house where our families are raised and where we respect each other. I thank you again for your inspiring speech. I'm sorry to take your time. I hope no one gives me this inspiration to take my word for it and to waste your time. Since I'm not going out of that NBS house anywhere, not really anywhere, my going out into this, really for me, the holy house, where I created a name in that old building down there, and in this one here, are the days I prefer to remember. I can welcome you MPs here in the defense of every amendment and every law you recognize among the citizens. They call me today when they see me on the street as an MP. I rarely correct them, I rarely correct them because I am happy to remember my place in the last bench, where it is the coldest, because that's how the air conditioning works, where I first got in and out in the morning and I was never left behind, I defended Serbia's interests in the way I do today without any difference. I thank you and apologize, Vice President, once again for your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9008	We thank you, too, for the inspired presentation and for the motivational presentation. The word has the vice president of the Muamer Zukorlic National Assembly. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9009	Thank you for these remarks. I'll tell you one more thing on this line of what I was saying and what you said. So here I am for five years in the benches of this House. Everyone knows where I was, where I came from, what position I'm from. A single motive holds me, and while he's holding me, I'll be here or something. So as long as I believe, and I still believe that in this Assembly, as well as in the entire state system, there are people with whom I can share valuable views and valuable thinking, this job, and I believe my colleagues, makes sense. It's the only thing holding me back after all I've done, let me tell you right now, it's not easy for me to sit here. I believe in this, I believe, that for this country, for this people, for all the citizens of this country, the only future, the only meaning and only that can bring us more light and more peace in the long term, more stability and more prosperity, is the gathering around real human, essential, real, ethical, spiritual and in general of human values. So that only makes sense to me. That's why all this work in the state system, while we have that charge, which is why I'm glad to hear a comment like this that included not only professional, but human, family, personal approach, that's the only point to me. I call for as many of us as possible, to show that we have the strength. Let us have differences both ethnic and confessional and party, but to have a gathering about what is right human, because surely on such foundations, what is built cannot be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9010	Thank you. Next is counterpart Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9011	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed Governor with an associate. We today on the agenda of the session, except for the agreements we discussed yesterday, we also have proposals for a few decisions. Among other decisions on the election of Vice Governors of the NBS, as well as decisions on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Assembly Committees. When considering your proposal to elect a vice governor of the NBS, in this case Mrs. Ivković, apart from the results of the work myself, which I will talk about later, the only thing we had in front of us was her biography, work experience and work results that can indicate what work is like in the NBS, thanks to the contribution she gives him. I want to believe that you as someone who heads the NBS, with full right, can choose your associates, because by now you have also come to know their character, after all, you will agree with me that it is not irrelevant and competent and work and experience. I really want to believe that your choice based on the work résumé we have here is truly justified. As far as we can see from the material delivered to us, Mrs. Ivkovic spent most of her career in the NBS and carried out very important and responsible tasks. It's also not negligible for her scientific publicist work. From the point of view of biography and work experience, we can conclude that she is a good candidate for Vice Governor and we believe in your choice in that regard. When it comes to the work of the NBS itself, I have to point out that the last few years have been extremely stable, i.e. the exchange rate of the domestic currency hasn't moved much. In that sense, it was 117, 118 dinars for the euro, and I think that this relative stability of the exchange rate is the key to achieving these results in the domestic economy for the past seven or eight years, I cannot be completely precise. Although often in public, you will agree with me, you can hear dissuasive opinions about the Serbian currency in the sense that it may need to weaken to speed up exports and indeed, we could hear debate and numerous dilemmas from individual analysts, especially now in the context of a pandemic-induced crisis, yet most economists and businessmen, but also bankers agree with you, or with a policy in which the dinar course should be maintained stable, or in which they should not devaluation. The structure of our country, our economy and financial markets differs from the structure of the financial markets and large economies of other countries, and most of the classical economic theories on the basis of which certain conclusions are made based on examples of large and economies that are structurally different from ours and that is exactly the case when we talk about the relationship between the exchange rate and the export import movement, or activity. However, it has been shown in practice that the Central Bank's efforts are aimed at preserving financial stability and the banking system, including foreign exchange policy, have produced really good results. A professor of economics has tried to explain this phenomenon in a picturesque way, I will quote it, he says, "Devaluation of dinars in Serbia is like a sock, if a bit of damage is damaged it will certainly tear itself apart. “ I think this is exactly the attitude of the NBS and the policy that leads in this context is the answer to this question. Another indicator of successfully targeted monetary policy by the NBS is that significant reserves have been created in previous years. They provide us with that right now, at a time of crisis caused by the Kovid-19 virus, the economy remains essentially stable. So, let's say, the current global crisis that was caused by the Coronom was met ready, with a high level of foreign reserves that today amount to over 11 billion euros, it is indeed an impressive figure. As far as inflation is concerned, there is slight growth, but it is still moving within the borders of the planned and the causes of inflation in my humble opinion are short-term and transient and simply a rapid increase in demand on the market, which offer in the conditions of congestion caused by the pandemic could not respond within such a short period of time and has led to a temporary increase in the prices of certain products, but as such inflation in Serbia is still lower than in most countries of the region, which have the same monetary policy regime as we do. In Serbia, as we know, inflation has been under control for more than seven years, largely thanks to the measures taken by the NBS, aimed at preserving the stability of the fiscal and banking system, but also at supporting the economy, which at that time did not fail. The state has so far brought three aid packages and all these measures have been carried out in due time, but also measured, which also confirms that due to the strong negative effects that the pandemic could leave on our economy, our economy has managed to achieve the results it has today. In addition, the European Central Bank and the European Commission have estimated that our banking system is good. The results related to the reduction of the incidence of problematic loans have been particularly welcomed. From all ahead, there is simply no argument that would doubt the continuation of all those measures and plans envisaged by the NBS to preserve a stable monetary policy, so in this sense the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support your proposal in the day of voting. As for the remainder of the agenda, today it is on the agenda and a question of a more formal nature and concerns the replacement of a member of the Committee. It is somehow a practice for the consensus of the parties to negotiate, or propose, candidates for committees, believing that they choose from their ranks those who will best represent them on those same committees, in accordance with the qualifications they have. However, we are witnessing that a very bad picture of Parliament's work is being created in the public lately. On the one hand, the reason for that is the fact that the work of the tide is directly transmitted on television and because somehow our work here is always exposed to a kind of court of the public. It is in the nature of man that public attention attracts negative and unusual events, and these are often some incidents in parliament that shadow all the work that is being done here in the Assembly, counting the work of MPs on committees, which is often very invisible. For this very reason, it is the impression that the public may not be fully aware of all the functions that MPs perform, that is, with their work, and that is why it is important that we talk about it in this way, and even through the analysis of the board members, if anything else, to understand, maybe someone will investigate and see why this second candidate is better than the one who is sitting in it right now. Like any parliamentary democracy, so does ours, Serbia faces a number of challenges in the functioning of democratic institutions and parliament as a central democratic and representative institution takes a special place, and therefore we must choose its members carefully. Since the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, and then the first Law on the National Assembly of 2010, and finally by realising the financial independence of the Assembly in relation to the executive power, all conditions for the normal functioning and improvement of the work of the Parliament itself as a legislative body have been created, and above all through strengthening the capacity of its committees, in which the most part and the assembly work itself takes place. The functioning of the Committee and the general working bodies of the National Assembly is, among other things, the subject of an analysis of the annual report on Serbia's progress, while the 2013 Resolution on the role of the National Assembly in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU. All of this obliges us as MPs to talk in a transparent way about the work and composition of all the committees that the National Assembly has, because Parliament is uncontested and crucial, but also directly elected and representative political institution, closest to what could be said simply in the legal language - "wox popul". The Committees of the National Assembly represent an important link in carrying out parliamentary control and are often seen as a place where the real work of parliament is really taking place, but also control through parliamentary committees is not negligible. Because of all the above, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will also support your proposal for a co-worker with whom you wish to continue working and implementing the NBS measures, as well as proposals for replacing members of the assembly boards, believing that they have chosen their co-workers well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9012	Thank you. Next is MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9013	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Governor with an associate, since the Assembly is conducting a joint principled search on staff solutions, primarily on the election of Vice Governor of the NBS, but also on members and deputies of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will first and foremost refer to the election of Vice Governor Ms. Ana Ivkovic. Of course, the JS parliamentary group will when it comes to changes and the selection of new members, i.e. Deputy members of the assembly committees, we would absolutely support this election, because it is a kind of political agreement reached among the political parties even when this assembly is formed, and we would not even comment on the party's staff solutions, because that is their right, and in the day to vote on this change we will support. As we speak today about the election of Vice Governor of the NBS, I would like to point out that on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament in this session the points that have been devoted to various agencies and institutions that are independent and independent in their work. However, their independence and independence is not absolute, because each of these agencies, i.e. The institution works on behalf of the people, so it responds to him through his representatives, so here in the National Assembly, in front of the MPs. So this is how I would highlight the importance of both the National Assembly and the MPs. One such institution is the NBS, which is independent and independent in performing the functions set out in the NBS Act, and for its work it is precisely the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and today we are deciding on the selection of the Vice Governor. Of course, when selecting human resources, it is always necessary to pay attention to two things, which are the expertise of the candidates and the fulfilment of the necessary conditions. Many times we have heard here in this congregation from reports from various independent agencies that it is a big problem to find a good one, i.e. A professional fit, but an even bigger problem is to keep that fit. Almost every one of these personnel is defined as investing their knowledge and experience where it will be well paid, so that many of the staff who have built their careers in various state institutions have upgraded their knowledge and gained new and necessary for the good functioning of these institutions, often leaving those institutions, mostly dissatisfied with the level of their incomes. When giving positive results, which is one of the supporters of the institution in which he works, he should be detained and paid, and this is what JS President Dragan Markovic Palma often spoke of here, noting that everyone should be paid according to the results of his work, which we in JS advocate. This candidate, i.e. candidates, when it comes to her qualifications, i.e. the expertise and fulfilment of all the necessary conditions, it is not disputed in both cases. Our decision-making work here is very facilitated, because the candidate is chosen for the second time to the same function, so she meets all the necessary conditions, and as far as expertise and biography are concerned, we see that the candidate is not only professional, but also has great experience, which she has also upgraded by performing the role of Vice Governor over the past few years. But when we have a candidate who is re-elected to the same function, in addition to those qualifications, there is another, most important to me, and that is what the results of the work in that previous period were when he performed that function for which he was re-proposed, and whether these results were sufficient and what a commitment to work was to qualify him for a new mandate. In order to see what the results of the vice governor are, we need to look at the very organisational structure of the NBS, where we see that one of the authorities of the NBS is the Executive Board of the Bank, made up of governors and vice governors. Some of the tasks of the Executive Board, for which the governors are also responsible, are also the establishment of monetary foreign exchange policy, activities to preserve and strengthen the stability of the financial system, as well as the establishment of a dinar course policy, as well as many other tasks. On the implementation of all these tasks, the results of the National Bank of Serbia were told by the rapporteur, i.e. The governor of the National Bank of Serbia, so I'll look back on one small part. What is the work of the National Bank of Serbia each of the citizens can realistically see in this way if they look at the course of the dinar, i.e. The euro. It has been stable for years, and for the past two years it has been almost fixed and amounts to around 117.5 dinars. The fact is that the National Bank of Serbia has successfully maintained and maintained the relative stability of the exchange rate with its proactive functioning and responsible behaviour for the past nine years, which is one of the main pillars of the country's monetary, financial and macroeconomic stability. The unstable course, the fact is also giving increased risks and withdrawing a number of other negative economic effects. The price would pay the citizens themselves the most, and order those who have loans. In view of this importance of the dinar course itself, discussions are being held today, and previous years have taken place. The criticism we could hear a few years ago is that the dinar was overrated and that its value would decrease immediately after the election. The election was 2020, and the course remained the same. We hear the same criticism today. Whether this course is good or not, the best people can say, especially those who have experienced and survived hyperinflation from the beginning to the mid-1990s when the German mark course was wild, the standard of living did not exist, with the salary could hardly be bought. The answers to questions of this type and various critical views can be obtained if we look at many newspaper texts from previous years in which we could read that the forecasts that the National Bank of Serbia with the measures it is going to carry out will not last long. I purposely say from the previous period, so back five and more years, because this National Bank with the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a National Bank with continuity. Many could have said a few years ago that they were assuming, that they were guessing, that some of the moves of the National Bank of Serbia were not good, but from this perspective, they are showing positive results. In addition to all this comes the crown that became an integral part of our life at the beginning of last, 2020, which only brought oil to the fire, so many have once again predicted, speculated and similar that the restrictive measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the inevitable response to the coronary virus, will be destabilized by our financial system. But that hasn't happened until today. Of course, when I mention the Government of the Republic of Serbia, its work is directly related to the National Bank of Serbia and vice versa. The government's successes are evident, even in such conditions as the covid pandemic imposes. Finally, this continuity of the National Bank of Serbia should be maintained. A team that gives good results doesn't need to be changed. That is why the JS parliamentary group will support this proposal to re-election the vice governor in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9014	Thank you. The next is the MP of the people, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9015	I thank you, Chairman. The esteemed governor with an associate, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today, as colleagues have already said, we have one really important topic, it is the re-election of the Vice Governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I'll divide my discussion into two segments. One is precisely the candidate's biography, and the other is what was done in the previous period, which I also think is to the greatest extent and qualified this candidate precisely for this proposal, given that we are also talking about the period in which you, the governor, are all the time in that function, and we really have no reason not to believe everything you've just said about the candidate herself. The main objective of the National Bank is to preserve price and financial stability. The position, organisation and functions of the National Bank are governed by the 2006 Constitution, as well as the National Bank Act. It is independent and independent in the performance of its function, it corresponds to the MPs, or the National Assembly for its work and governors and vice governors, and we MPs here in the National Assembly are elected precisely for a period of six years. Today we have, as I said, Mrs. Ana Ivkovic's biography in front of us. What I think is most important is that she's a candidate who really comes from that very system, the system of the National Bank. For over 20 years she's been working at the National Bank, she's gone through all the sectors in the National Bank, to say, figuratively speaking, all the steps in that system. For the past three years, she has also been responsible for performing her post. In addition, it is also the author of several professional works and executive of several projects, which I find extremely significant that it has also been developing in this direction. What is a fact and logical fact is that it meets all the prescribed conditions for that function by law. I would take the opportunity to remind myself that the National Bank of Serbia played a very important role in the pandemic era. You, governor, were talking about this very synchronization, regardless of what the National Bank should and must be independent, but although it is part of this country and has synchronisedly made all decisions together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is really for every praise and I don't see it any different. You responded immediately to the spread of the coronary virus in our country and parallelly, as I said, with the measures of the Serbian government, you synchronised those measures. The main objective of these extraordinary measures was to support the domestic economy. A decision has been made to reduce all basic interest rates thus allowing much more favourable financing conditions for domestic economy and citizens. It is also possible for the domestic financial sector to receive additional dinar and financial liquidity in order to continue lending domestic economy and citizens. The first delay in the payment of liabilities covered all citizens, farmers, entrepreneurs and companies. This period lasted 90 days, and 94% of credit debtors reported for the first moratorium, another 86% and a third significantly less. The principle for all three moratoriums was the same. Wars are not paid during these periods, but interest is calculated and is divided at the end of the moratorium itself into the remaining number of months. It is also allowed to pay interest in full at the end of the break. It is also a very important measure to facilitate access to housing loans to customers of the first apartment. For the purchase of first residential immovable property, the bank may grant a natural person an apartment loan secured by a mortgage on immovable property provided that it has ensured that the amount of that loan is not greater than 90% of that immovable value. I want to praise this recommendation from the National Bank for the good that it applies to young people, from my perspective it is at least so, and I know how important and important it is for young couples who decide exactly that step of living together and how much of this recommendation gives them one motive to go into such a life decision that brings somewhat with them what we're talking about here, which is just an expansion of the family. You were just talking about the importance of this family. I'm taking the opportunity to call from this place other banks who didn't respect that recommendation, because I think it will show sensitivity to exactly what our society's preferences and needs are. As the health situation changed last fall, it again significantly deteriorated, the National Bank of Serbia reacted preventively and ensured the possibility of using additional cheap dinar liquidity, thus encouraging domestic economy and economy. The banking sector remained stable during the pandemic, high liquidity and dynamic credit activity were preserved. In the year when the whole world was faced with the pandemic and the crisis of unremembered unemployment rates in Serbia was 9%. What I'd like to compare it to is eight years before that and it was almost 24%. Health workers' salaries have been increased since 1 January of this year by 5%, while other public sector employees' salaries have been increased by 3.5% and 1.5% since 1 April. This year, the minimum labour price has been increased by 6.6%, and a new increase is also planned as of next year. If we look at the World Bank's official statistics for the current year, we will see that Serbia has the best result besides Lithuania in terms of annual GDP, as well as GDP per capita. This data refers to all of Europe, not just our region. The International Monetary Fund gives a similar forecast and projections for Serbia and believes that this is one convincing best result when we talk about the whole of Europe. In the past seven years inflation has averaged 2%. In May this year, it was 3.6%, and in the next two months it fell to 3.3%. It is estimated that inflation is caused by temporary factors and that in the coming months and years our country will continue to move within the limits of the 3% plus-minus 1.5% inflation target. Based on all these indicators, we see that NBS activities in the past period have been aimed at preserving monetary stability, creating a favourable economic and business environment, supporting economic growth, which is the basis for further growing the standard of living for our citizens. What I would also like to point out is that this year, 137 years since the founding of the NBS. This year, she became a member of a prominent international group of central banks and supervisors within the network for the greening of the financial system. This network is currently one of the leading projects of financial institutions aimed at greening the global financial system. They are also the largest central banks of the world, as well as international financial institutions, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank, the IMF, the European Investment Bank. The width of membership, perhaps the best way to speak is to include 85% of the global social product. The aim of this network in which NBS will also be a direct participant is to develop the latest solutions to environmentally acceptable and sustainable financing. Economies and environmental protection are increasingly linked and are increasingly complemented in the modern world. Of course, it is also affected by the current situation. There will be more and more expectations of all market players, precisely that companies, above all, show their social responsibility. At the end of the last century, card payments were considered a phenomenon and technological achievement. Today, paying through mobile applications and via electronic services has become quite common and in practice much simpler. These mechanisms are used quickly, easily and safely. In Serbia, in the last nine years, the number of payment transactions made through electronic banking has increased significantly and has increased almost 100%, while the number of payment transactions made by mobile banking has increased by 81%. New times require new technologies, as well as wider and more comprehensive co-operation at interstate but also institutional level. Also, by adopting the Digital Property Act, Serbia has become one of the first countries to regulate this particular area. These indicators are the result of the successful policy that our country is leading, but also of all professional people who are responsible and secure in doing their job and here I mean the institution, of course, the NBS. From all that I've been saying, I think and I think that the candidate you've proposed, the distinguished governor, the good choice, and we're giving confidence, and the SPS parliamentary group will support this proposal in the voting day, and we want all the best in further work and a lot of success, and that it works as well as you and all of us together in the best interests of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9016	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Next is Professor Vladimir Marinkovic's list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9017	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Governor, Mrs Tabakovic, ladies and gentlemen, before I start talking about today's topic, about our monetary policy, the work of the governor and the NBS itself, I want to express my great pride that Serbia is starting today, so a cornerstone is being hit on a new vaccine factory that will produce Chinese "Sinofarm" vaccines along with our Chinese partners and partners from the United Arab Emirates. This is a symbolic second of the results of a good and quality monetary policy, well in line with fiscal policy and, of course, everything that has been done in the past few years regarding the creation of a good and quality business environment in our country, resulting in the fact that the particulars of the NBS which today and in the past several years are the institutions of a great trust, not only of us politicians, businessmen, but also of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This says that Serbia is definitely the economic champion of this region and that the projections itself, President Aleksandar Vukic, said at a press conference yesterday that we will have almost historic record economic growth this year, which may well be 7.5%, which, in order to make it easier to explain to our citizens and the people we represent here in the National Assembly, means new jobs, a new increase in pensions and wages in the public sector, but also a new opportunity for foreign investors as well as domestic, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. So, absolutely everything that we have plotted on the day that President Aleksandar Vukic became Prime Minister in 2014 and began a difficult fight and economic reform that today, seven years later, yields his full result, even though our society, as well as the whole world, has many challenges, especially with regard to this challenge of the Kovid 19 pandemic, which almost destroyed many economies in the world that are completely collapsed. Fortunately, of course, on the continent of good economic policy and good governance and good leadership, Serbia is only a year after the pandemic broke out in a situation that has made historicly large economic growth, that it is one of the few countries in Europe whose public debt is below 60%. So, all these parameters speak clearly about how well good economic policy is being conducted and how much, of course, it is a fruit and a product of good and quality monetary and fiscal policy. I would like to say that what is the greatest achievement of our monetary policy and the work of the National Bank of Serbia and you, of course, Mrs Tabakovic, who in a truly maestro way is leading this institution, an autonomous way, knowing the economic environment, knowing the economic structure of our country, and what we need strategically to achieve greater development, modernisation and jobs, that is reliability. It's something our country didn't have until 2012, until the 5th of August 2012, when we elected you here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remember very well that day and, of course, with one great concern then, given that the state they left us left behind then the previous regime faced almost an economic collapse, with something that was truly the result of a great ignorance, carelessness, negligence, and that in 2008, the course of the euro was 78, if I was right, and that on August 5, 2012 was 119.6. So, it doesn't take a man to be an economist or to be an expert on the economy to make it clear to him that, with only four years' worth of over 50% dinars, how negatively it affected the economy, how negative it affected both the inflow of foreign and domestic investments, because at that time no one seriously wanted to invest in Serbia, because he didn't know what course it was not in a year, two or three, he didn't know what course it would be in a month or two days. The regime at the time that has completely destroyed the economy, has justified the fall of the dinar and the irresponsible monetary policy by being in the wake of the global economic crisis, and I ask you one question, Madam Governor, but also to all those who find excuses - what happened to the dinar during the Kovid 19 pandemic? How is it possible that the dinar remained stable? How is it possible that at this most difficult time when many more developed countries than us recorded a decline of 10, 11, 15% of GDP, when unemployment, see Austria which is an example of a developed country, which has developed economy and developed market, we came to 20%? How is it possible for Serbia to record minus 1% in these conditions and keep the dinar stable? Because we had key positions of people who knew how to do their job best, who in their professions were the best, who knew how to hire the best professionals to do their jobs and monetary policies. There I must also really commend the finance minister involved in fiscal policy, who has almost surgically defined measures to help and support the economies needed to maintain the level of economic activity, so as not to shut down businesses and, of course, not to cause a major negative effect that would result in enormous and huge unemployment. This power thanks to the leadership, thanks to one quality decision made by President Alexander Vucic, who has been able and demonstrated that he can lead this country through a very turbulent time not only on economics, not only on economic development, but also on all of the external political challenges that Serbia faces, show in fact what we have in SNS for all these years and what we are talking about and promoting, as an idea, that Serbia has people, that Serbia can be a leader, that it can be not only a leader in sport, but that it can be an economic leader, that it can be a leader in employment, that it can be a leader in new technologies, in improving education and, of course, the creation of a business environment that is best in this part of Europe, which we have shown for these seven years, and of course, Madam Governor, and you are very well-deserved, doing this job in a very peaceful way, just how the governor of one national capital should be able to account for five years, for two years of time, to be able to be able to make it for two years. That's why Serbia had more than three billion euros of foreign direct investment in 2020, according to the National Bank of Serbia. That is why this year we will have an even greater amount of foreign direct investment, which is measured by a percentage of 60% of the total amount of foreign direct investment for the whole region. That is the result of a very good team of executives, the National Bank of Serbia, which again has its own autonomy in the conduct of monetary policy, but speaks of President Aleksandar Vucic as very well as knows what he wants and where he should lead Serbia in the coming years and what the result of his policy has been for the past seven years. That's exactly what we're talking about today and what we're proud of, Madam Governor. It's this stable exchange rate, it's controlled inflation, it's a message that we can send to all those who want to invest in Serbia, which is that they can count on that course to be the same in six months, a year, two or three years, and that we have the capacity to run our monetary fiscal policy in one real and quality way, as one serious and modern state. The result of all that work is on the traffic lights. This is the 7.5% GDP growth announced by President Aleksandar Vukic during this year. It's obvious we're getting a huge boost in economic development. Why? Because we're just a reliable country for investment, because we've used these seven years to build infrastructure, cross our country on highways, make three airports, let them work, make railways, make infrastructure, and of course by system of connected courts, when investors look at our economic performances, they say – this is a country ideal for investment where order is known, where tax policy is known, what taxes will be in the future and in the medium and long term where the currency is very stable and where the state is stable. Therefore, President Aleksandar Vucic is constantly speaking in his performance – see how important it is for investors what the rate of the dinar is and what the value of the domestic currency is in relation to the euro, dollar and foreign currency. It is so much, much more important that this country is politically stable, to be wise and it is something that adorns Alexander Vukic's policy unlike previous regimes, which absolutely did not know what the state is, let alone to run a country that is in a very specific geopolitical position, which is in a very specific geopolitical environment and in such a kind of environment, you manage to make many enemies friends, from many countries that have large reserves towards Serbia, and even to the Serbian people make such partners who are very happy to come here today, invest in this country, open jobs and what is even more important recommending Serbia to all investors around the world. Today we are talking about not only the stone foundation for the new vaccine factory, we are talking about the partner venture of the UAE, the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Serbia. Who could only imagine a few years ago that we would be able, that Serbia would be so open, that Vucic would create such an ambience and such an open country that today is working with the countries of the Middle East, with the People's Republic of China, with the Russian Federation and that all of those countries have become one of the most important partners here in Southeast Europe, from one country in which no one wanted to invest. Just look at the level of foreign direct investment from 2001 to 2012. President Vukic spoke at his conference yesterday that we had only one year close to three billion. It was in 2011 when Miskovic sold "Maksi" to Deleseu, in fact it was no foreign direct investment, it was a classic sale, a classic purchase. We are here today talking about Serbia opening the plant, opening up factories, new technologies, new equipment, new management, raising pay levels and the possibility that our most qualified people, economists, lawyers, engineers are employed in these companies that create additional value for our country and thus solve demographic problems and all the problems Serbia has been bringing through its history since the Berlin Congress of 1978 when we get independence. Unfortunately, we had very few leaders who treat and lead politics in this way, the leaderial way, who clearly know what Serbia's position is, as Alexander Vukic knows, and as he knows it is an economy, that it is a job, that the wallet of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is their standard of what will define our both geopolitical and foreign policy position and every other position and defence position and everything that could potentially be a danger to our country in the coming period. It is also an important message for not only investors but also citizens of Serbia. In this way, through a good monetary policy and stability, we send a message to a serious state that rightly manages its own country and of course to its own institutions. Unfortunately, Madam Governor, all I've stated is no boast and we're talking about exact data, something that's happening in the field, something that our people and our citizens can see. They can work at the factory, they can work at the plant today. They can go to Panchevo or Novi Sad to "Bross", to factories where the average earnings are 1,700 euros, but unfortunately there are those and there is Serbia, unfortunately and specific, there are those people who are dealing with and trying to deal with domestic policy and who are heating up over the fact that some foreign investor is going to be working or the current situation on the world market to fire several dozen or several hundred people. They are both media and politicians who, thanks to the investment of hundreds of million euros in these media, are destroying Alexander Vukic and destroying Serbia, just because it has raised its head, only because Serbia today is in many segments, not just the economic life of investment, the best in Europe. These are people who instead of calling for, to help these millions invest in jobs, to invest in undeveloped areas, to develop villages, to develop education, to be socially responsible, they have invested hundreds of millions of euros to bring down Alexander Vukic and to destroy what the SNS has done for these seven, eight years in power, given that the main objective and the main focus was still in 2012 which was met, economic empowerment, the military empowerment of this country which can and which, of course, is visible and what citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also the whole region and the whole world recognise. You can imagine that in their headlines today, on their portals they talk about and laugh and say, "Here, we found a factory, down in southern Serbia they will fire 200 or 300 workers." Maybe that factory will fire 200 or 300 workers, but this country, this government, but Alexander Vukic will create an opportunity for not 200 more, 300 jobs, but 20 and 30 thousand new jobs. And that's the difference between them, who were incompetent. I'm free to say that they weren't absolutely patriots, because patriots don't behave like that. Patriots don't behave by letting anyone think of lobbying and working and admitting an inseparable part of our territory threaten our country's sovereignty, so when they let us threaten sovereignty, political, state, which would not endanger our economic sovereignty. Why not compromise our monetary sovereignty? Nothing would surprise me, Madam Governor, if they had asked to introduce us here both the currency board and the Washington Consensus. What do we need a dollar for? What these people needed was a dinar, they didn't think about new companies, new businesses, they were interested in their own wealth, so they took hundreds of millions of euros out of this country, unfortunately as far as we can see, and I hope that the state and competent authorities will determine how they got that money, whether they paid taxes and how much they damaged, and I'm sure they did, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since they threw this country on their knees. Today, too, they laugh and rejoice that some factory will potentially fire 200 or 300 people, but the main difference is that in Serbia 50, 60,000 companies were shut down annually, and 20, 30,000 companies were opened. For the first time in history, for the first time in three decades, 31 years, as far as the market economy is working in Serbia. We have a situation where a lot more companies open up than it closes down. And that is also the main indicator of development, clear strategies and leadership in this country, which ultimately, while President Aleksandr Vukic is today in key positions, has the best people. It is Serbia and Jorvanka Tabakovic and Sinisa Mali and all those who help and who have the result. That is why they trust us here as most MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as long as we can boast of a stable course, controlled inflation, and whenever the NBS can announce that three, three and a half billion euros of foreign direct investment are coming to Serbia. So no one's come here to see us. They came because this country is safe, because this country is stable and because they see that this country has a clear vision of its development, knowing finally how to use its resources, both natural and ultimately the people we have, delegating the best people and the most qualitative people in key state institutions. So we continue with that kind of policy. I can only encourage you to continue doing what you know best with your team. Things are very simple and it is ultimately a mirror of the SNS, a traffic light, Alexander Vukic, all those who follow his policy, development policy, development of the economy, strengthening our country and, of course, restoring pride to the Serbian people, our people and of course to our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9018	I thank Mr. Marinkovic. Before we move on to the list of MPs, brief notice. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're moving on to the list. The first on the list is Mr. Milletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9019	Thank you. Dear Governor, honourable coelge MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party. I have been selected from the list Alexander Vukić – for our children. First of all, I'm going to say a few things specifically regarding this point about selecting a vice governor. Dear Governor, I, as a People's MP, am fully in favour of the USS policy of our President, Alexander Vukic, where we are working in the framework of this policy to develop every part of our country of Serbia. As part of that, you're here as governor of the NBS, if the person I trust too much. So I'm going to vote for a proposal from the vice governor candidate, for the person who did her job the best way before, and the results are visible. Our fiscal situation is such that it is very stable, that we are very advanced, we are working and we expect that Serbia will have even more opportunities to help all those areas, and I am talking about areas that are underdeveloped, I am talking about mountainous and rural areas. Once again, I will, as an MP and president of the USS, support the candidates' proposals and vote for a policy that makes progress for our country Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9020	Thank you. Next on the list is MP Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9021	The growth of gold reserves in Serbia says that NBS management knows what everyone in the world knows, but it doesn't talk much, is that the neoliberal concept of capitalism, the neoliberal concept of economy all over the world, has gone into pieces and that we have to prepare for difficult times in which we have to have some more stable ways to survive. What is the legacy of the NBK in the last 20 years is the beginning of what we had as a kind of monetary committee, as Professor Jovan Dusanic spoke about what the previous government was doing with the NBS. We had a complete handover of our banking sector to foreigners, we had four state-owned national banks abolished. We had a situation that at a time when you foreigners are having such an impact on our market, you're canceling all those economic parameters that say that the seriously developed state does not have more than 20-30% of foreign banks in its banking sector. I remember when the esteemed governor was an opposition MP, when I listened carefully to her performances, she criticised such economic policy. But today, when we look at things from the point of view of what the NBS is doing, we see that it still maintains that course at several parameters. It is true that the people who experience the hyperinflation we have experienced remain very scared and psychologically unprepared for any dinar leaps, for any leap of inflation. The Serbian Progressive Party, as a party that uses marketing very successfully in a political struggle, knows that playing on that psychological moment often underlines that our course is firm, that our inflation is small, but we all know that if we want to run a serious economic policy, if we want to achieve the sovereignty of our country in that segment, if the National Bank of Serbia wants to be one of the authorities of this people, there must be something that is strictly controlled primary emissions that will allow one smaller inflation to help the domestic economy, to help export, and not at this time work to go in favour of foreign corporations with such a petrified course to go in favour of the import lobby. So these are the things your predecessors set up, and you're still not changing them. The second thing we see exactly is that you still don't have the courage to change that policy, is a relationship to foreign banks, they're very privileged. We are in a position to today, I think the Commercial Bank was the last domestic bank to be handed over to foreigners, and otherwise it is very interesting that what your predecessors did in the two-thousand years when those four domestic banks abolished and handed over our banking sector to foreigners, the Slovenians who did it 10 years later did it, and 10 years earlier they went into transition. Why? Because Mr. Menciger and his economic team took care of the national interest of their people. You have the same chance to do that. You have a chance to restore sovereignty in economic terms to the hands of our people, but that means that at last we will have a question - when will we have a developmental, domestic and perhaps state-owned investment bank that will start taking care of our economy? It's not your fault what was done at a time when he was in fiscal politics, when the bank service tax was lifted, so the banks got their hands off doing whatever they wanted. They paid us back by participating in a green loan project in Switzerland, by robbing this people with imaginary service charges. We have come to a situation where lawyers and people are trying to get it back, and the banks are not ready to meet and stop the burden of the judiciary and say, "Here we are, citizens, returning the money we robbed to you, but are already putting us in a position to confront lawyers, the judiciary and all those who have to correct what the previous government has done." But your firm commitment to restore the sovereignty of this country to the hands of our citizens through the National Bank of Serbia will be recognized when you are allowed to play on a strictly controlled primary show that will help the domestic economy, and then when you become a domestic, developmental investment bank, and it is simply amazing that I know that you are afraid of this story, that a strictly controlled show, the primary show, is never so strictly controlled, but I cannot believe that a party like the SNS that has a historical precedent to control all processes in society and in the economy, is not able and must not go into that kind of support of the domestic economy. So, no matter how much I see you have certain definitions that speak of sovereignty, I don't think you've yet shown the courage to show it in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9022	Thank you. Madam Governor, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9023	Out of respect and respect for you, who are a representative of the people, but out of respect for the topics you have opened, I have a few words to comment on. If there's something I appreciate about myself, and obviously you don't have enough information about it, it's consistency in politics, and I'd like it very much, because there are stenograms from all the shows and all the discussions being preserved everywhere, to find them somewhere and to compare the difference between what I'm saying today and what I was saying, but also to realize that society isn't a ship that you can pull to shore and fix it. Society is like a boat system that sails and cannot make a 180-degree turn at a moment without producing negative consequences for all those of that ship, I'm talking about the National Bank of Serbia and its policy and my personal courage that was not at all questionable at all, and I'm going to tell you an illustrative example, it's just not possible to change overnight. The adoption of Article 9 - constraint of interbank fees, where the National Bank showed, at the moment I put my own choice in the second plan for the second term, and put firstly the need for the state of Serbia to control its payments indemnity, by putting the first plan of the home card "dine", but by giving for the rights and foreign cards "visa" and "master" to first register here as payment institutions and to have equal treatment with the home card, because the National Bank can only control their work and to provide citizens with security of access to the card system, and that by then 30m euros is to be paid first by those two sides of card organisations from Serbia, and now remain in Serbia, because we have committed my decision that this Assembly allowed me to adopt the law, to oblige the bank to pay first of the other cards as a "dina" as domestic. This means that we can ensure the security of the cash and security of access to our payment account for free of charge. Where there was, I don't want to talk about the pressures and how brave I am, that's what all of them are saying, and even some of the MPs back then here, literally with stored discussions from those international card organizations, are trying to challenge me, to convince me, etc. And I asked him who was for me, not only did he propose me to this assembly, but he who is a man who, for me, for courage and not calculation, can't compare himself with anyone as presidents so far, here I will bring one personal thing, I often say - Alexander, is this people worthy of you, who then gave me support, and I told him - I will go to the assembly with such a law, there will be a lot of pressure. I'll resist them, do I have the support of the parliamentary majority? He asked for a brief explanation when I said it was support for his home payment card. He said you have support. The pressures of the embassy, I don't accept ambassadors. It's not my jurisdiction of foreign policy, and there's been this kind of pressure. I'm not going to the reception. I don't care. I'm 61 years old, I've been working since 1981, I've had a lot of internships. I don't want to like anyone and court myself, I work in the interests of Serbian citizens, but with awareness as far as I can, without jeopardising the position of Serbia which is open to the economy and in globalisation so much that no one, no more, from America to Serbia, through China, is to this extent sovereign that it can function alone as an isolated island. For me, "Dina Card" is my responsibility in terms of commitment to something called a home card system without any advertising, without any invested dinar. With the Home Bank of Postage Savings which really promotes that "dina" honestly, and the others have to, you didn't want to, although you happen to come to the counter, they hand you a "dina," because they have to, but they don't hand you a pin. Then maybe it seems funny to you, writing letters to all the banks with a warning about where it happened, how it happened, and that I would get in their control and punish them for it. So, on the case of the payment system, newly introduced payment institutions, we give equal chances to everyone, but we say that Serbia as France, Germany and many other countries puts their home payment card first, because this is the interest of Serbia, to keep the costs, to be the lowest, that in the smallest store it can be paid with a card. Here, I can give you a checklist of my payments, I only pay with the "Din" payment card I have. As we inherited the banking system in which it is, we call them domestic entities and domestic banks, but they are their queens and owners abroad. I will remind you, who may have forgotten or those who do not wish to remember, after 5 October 2001, the number of 11 international contracts, the privatisation of the banking system is described in one sentence. For six million dollars, I repeat for six million dollars in aid, it has been said that a reform of the banking system will take place and privatise banks according to the method of cutting from case to case. It was both a methodology and a principle and a way and everything else. For the private sector also, for six million dollars, a list of large enterprises drawn up by institutions that will work and how they will work and which they have to do to the donor, the World Bank trust fund to do something about writing a note. For twice to six million dollars, Serbia has put itself in a position to do so. The revolution or as they call it famously, we literally get the banking system, almost entirely foreign. Ask me where the former governors are. Ask me where the former financial authorities are. That's why I said how our Anna works, how they've been doing, wanting to touch each other and bite each other later. They sold everything they found. What's good for the citizens of that, to say privatisation, by the method of cutting from case to case. In fact, it was a mob principle -- kill the trustee and you don't have a debt. It was four big banks that funded the systems and I worked in commercial banking before that, and I know what you're talking about. I'll also look back on the primary show. As I was in that situation, the four privatized banks next to the man sitting here next to me and the team I've been working with, after 20 years, we were able to collect some of the money that was found on accounts abroad from these banks. It's not for further and wider story. We're still working on it. I don't prove my commitment to Serbia's interests that way, but I'm writing books, and there's still information about one reading and not forgetting what we've been doing back well, and that we've inherited the good things we've been promoting. What did the citizens get with this privatisation? What they didn't have at all, apartment loans. So, previous banks have worked with the economy, and that is what is forgotten today, from journalists to experts, they immediately say – and what do citizens have out of it? Well, a citizen can't have more standards if there's no company in which he works, if that company doesn't have a market, if there's no product someone wants to buy, that he can charge. Only then is there a citizen who's paid to go and take a loan, and they're just looking for that ultimate outcome, how to fill a citizen's wallet. From what? First, a business environment must be created, an environment in which serious investors will come, to build factories, to hire people inside, to create profits, to have interest in staying, but also to increase salaries for people who will have such a level of income that they can also take a housing loan, so that women, get married, create a family and so on. That overall approach, I have every moment in my mind, and I'm trying to inherit our full freedom of market liberalisation, especially in the banking system, where banks could do anything and everything was justified by market access, that I'm to some extent limiting it so that banks want to stay working, that they have profits, because it's the only interest that they'll stay working on, but that our citizens without whom banks can't exist, are benefiting from these banks, by taking credits. What did I do in inherited condition? I managed to bring the interest down from the two-digit level and today you have the first equal situation on average, so I'm talking about all banks, you have 2.9% of the average interest on both foreign and dinar loans. Average, I'm not talking about each individual. You have a situation where the bank can't publish a commercial that isn't true. And we forbid them. They can't sell problematic placements without reporting it to the National Bank. Why? Under some company's troubled placement, some companies actually sell a brand, sell a business, sell a market. I'm aware of all that, because in 1981 I started working as an economist, 1960 I worked in the economy, I worked as a professor, but I know what it means to do, to earn, and the longest I worked in the bank, but it wasn't my goal when I worked in the bank to tell someone, and there's one saying, that when you go into the bank and you bring in the ox, you'll be happy if you bring out just horns. I tried to really make the bank a service and make this experience of banks that used to be services, the most businesses, but not enough citizens, I turn today really into services and citizens and businesses. Why is the situation different? You had the possibility back in the '90s that companies that work well had a housing fund, to give up apartments, so the absence of consumer and housing loans didn't feel that way among citizens. In the 1990s, for the sake of sanctions, never forget that our economy was irrevocably damaged by sanctions and winding up that had to happen to get the drugs, to get the energy and to keep the basics working. Don't forget the wars in the meantime. Then when you start working with openings where for crumbs you sell for decades created factories, big systems where thousands of people worked, it's not easy to get into a situation where we talk today, one factory closes down, and that makes the news. I'm sorry, if there wasn't a closure and an opening there wouldn't be a system of bankruptcy, liquidation, decay and so forth. Let's really watch what we can do and that when we do something, it's more useful than damage. I deserve and demand respect from both international partners and from you as an MP above all only for what I do well measured and long-term insight. I wouldn't allow myself to repeat what happened in the '90s, when individuals are now called businessmen, tycoons, when state property because of sanctions and the need to carry out international traffic, was prescribed in their own name, because private property is recognised in the world. When the earth opened after so-called. The five-octobar revolutions, they were made as though they were the real owners of these foreign-trade companies, large companies and so on. When you make a mistake you don't answer for, then I can only repeat the title of the Taleb book, who doesn't have skin in the game and who doesn't come back to answer for them, he'll always make them. Since we are able to exercise power, to create a system, to fix an inherited, our skin in play is, our children are in play, our future is in play and all the experience and knowledge we have is in play and we prove it. Closed factories, new jobs open. You heard the president last night about what numbers he was talking about, only in foreign trade and cooperation with Germany. None of the foreign investments pass the National Bank of Serbia. And when we say foreign direct investment, it's not what the subsidies are talking about, it's the money that crosses the border of the country from which the investor enters and which, through the accounts of the banks and the National Bank, with records, changes its money, brought into the construction of these factories. That people just want to understand what a tectonic change is and the difference that doesn't happen overnight, I say, it's not a ship, so you can make a change in one turn, you have to do it slowly, so citizens who already have loans don't lose their loans, because there's no business fund in state enterprises. We wanted a market economy, we got a privatisation, and now we're talking about social responsibility. Instead of everything I remember well, you're probably quite younger than me but you're informed and you're reading about it, we have no right either of us to simply look at things and say – now we're going to end our relationship with the world and go the way we think we should. For me, the dinar is sacred, and that's why I keep it valuable. Having your own currency means having your own policy, but full sovereignty doesn't have America either, because China is the buyer of its securities of value. They asked me in due time if Greece had sold its sovereignty by borrowing so much. I say about Greece I can't worry, but today absolute sovereignty in that philosophical sense doesn't exist, but there is a national state. We defend the national state, build and know where it is and what its economic power is and what we do at its strengthening every moment. What I can do is support every domestic investor in the financial system if he has a clear choice of money and a long-term plan to get into that system. Over 13 paying institutions that are small banks, give small loans and electronic money institutions, we built the law from 2014 to 2016. Visa and Mastercard didn't use that right to register under that law, and it bothers them that Dina is a mandatory payment card. I don't justify it to anyone, I say, and you have the right to register in Serbia as a paying institution, to report your employees, to pay taxes and to have the same treatment, to have your card first. However, they have other systems of entering banks they want to work with, and I want to work clean. And Dina Card, not mine, should be in every wallet. Anyone who doesn't love the state of Serbia and doesn't want Dinah, doesn't have to work. He doesn't have to pay Dinah, but the bank has to let him and no bank challenge the issue of Dina's card. Who wants to start a bank here, clean money and pure intentions, is welcome. That proves the structure of the banks we have. But don't ask me for a "commercial" ask, don't, my soul hurts. I'm not the owner. Why, to remind those who forgot at the time of that government, when the first privatised "commercial" reputationd by the IBRD was not at all asked for the opinion of something called the Competition Protection Commission, the IBRD entered into the property of the " Commercial Bank" and this state was struggling to exercise its ownership right in that " Commercial Bank", because the state was sold by those who considered it their own and did nothing for it. I can't do it, like I don't want to go into other people's jurisdiction, I can't let anyone into mine either, but I can't challenge the state that she sold "The Commercial Bank", if the way she was privatised was so that the state of Serbia, what was called hers, was essentially not her property or the possibility of a decision. I have to work, and if I hope we have domestic banks, we don't need developmental ones, because what would they force someone to do? Some market competition, even among domestic banks, decides who is best and who needs clients, but what I can promise to all of you is that these banks whose queens are abroad will have to behave in the market in the interests of customers. There's no negative interest on foreign exchange savings, so let's take a vote, have the governor shift, if that bothers anyone. This is where the savings must be, respected must be preserved, and most of it is in the Commercial Bank. They might try to get some of the negative things through this banking system, but with all their strength, not saving, and with much courage, we'll stop all the negative phenomena we're stopping. I can't change the structure of ownership overnight, I wouldn't want the existing banks to leave, as I wasn't happy when "Sosite Genal" was privatized, as one of the oldest mixed banks, but I have to provide everyone with equal chances, conditions and supervision. And that means the following, inherited level of problematic loans in those banks, in 2015, since that indicator was measured, it was 23%, meaning bad placements where it was uncertainly you're going to charge, which means blocked money, and that means you're going to wait for someone to pass the law to sell those discounts, as I said, businesses, brands, etc. Today, a strategy implemented by the NBS, supported by partners, not by the IMF, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, but as the leading role of the NBS, we have 3.7% of these problematic placements, before the pandemic, and the latest data, even though we had a pandemic, is 3.61%) and despite all the problems, this indicator of the health of the banking sector continues to improve, because this lower level of problematic placements tells us that the NBS, is watchful with the daily reports it receives from banks over all these banks. When it comes to primary show, the time I worked in commercial banking is the time of the primary show, and I know perfectly well how good the funding mechanism is for what's really going to be produced. So, export production, sowing, harvesting, coal production at the time, you had to prove that you had seed bills, that you had bills for the machine, that you had bills, that you had the discovery of coal so much and so much and so much as the NBS, and the Business Bank together funded part of that future production behind which would remain a real product. That's what we call GDP, a gross social product, but the real value, and it worked out to one extent, as it should, that at one point, I don't know whose fault, the bank, the part that should be given out of their pocket, agreed with clients to increase the amount of coal and grain and seeds to 100% that the bank didn't give a penny, and everything was the primary NBS, and officially it was 40, 60. At that moment, there is a space for inflation, the desecration of dinars, which in the 1990s led to nonsense and led to such fear that is hard to forget. So, the Germans are afraid of inflation, because Weimarska doesn't come out of memory. Serbs fear inflation with the right, because hyperinflation is remembered by those of us who are old enough to take care of it. However, even at the time of the pandemic, not the primary show, but something called controlled aid through our corporate bonds, the NBS has done such a system of financing real projects where we are part of these actions, corporate bonds, securities of value, bought from those who really have a real product, we charge interest on it as well as on banks. And that's a pandan for whoever you mean the primary show, but not the primary show on religion, in the worst sense of words, but the funding of projects that really have a real basis, and we didn't go too far, not to jeopardize inflation. A lot of people were distracted because they thought who knew what was behind it, and we did it in a way that these corporate bonds could be stockpiled by banks, that they could use liquidity with us. So, banks have a responsibility to do, you mentioned a key word, a dedicated loan control, because it's in their interest to charge and not to enter into that problematic loan that needs to be sold under any price tomorrow. Why don't you know enough about it or why you only know negative things? Because I have my own handwriting about how I do this job. I don't show up very often, but I respond to any unfounded criticism. Growth projections, corporate bond emissions, economic assistance and unfounded stories of overestimated dinar or export decline. All the data on what is happening with exports say that exports are growing in absolute numbers and participation in GDP exports are growing, and you can't talk about the dinar as overrated if I give you the information that we bought over 3.5 billion euros so that the dinar doesn't increase too much. In the last year, we sold to the pandemic, a billion and 450m euros to keep the dinar stable, because investors investing in the real sector were just waiting to see if the NBS would give in to its monetary, let me say, ropes. No, we didn't give in. Of the billions and 450 we sold last year, I told you, in this year we already bought a billion and 60 million, almost compensated for this investment in dinar stability. So when someone accuses me of being overrated, I'm just asking what do you think determines the value of the dinar, but rather the offer and demand of the exchange? The fact that we can coordinate the offer and demand of those investors who bring in foreign exchanges, with the needs of those who need foreign exchanges for import components, is something that I am not obliged to draw as a rule of work for others, so that I teach them a job that they do not understand. Tales of dinar overestimation, he has many texts, he's inaugurated the site, we gave it to him. There are also honest economists who simply don't see the whole thing, so they have the wrong picture. I really ask everyone to access the site on these key topics, see the data, and ask if they need to. We are always ready to explain it in the NBS and would be as happy as you are if there were many more domestic investors in the financial sector, above all in the banking sector, there are financials, and we want them to be in insurance, there are already paid institutions, there aren't enough in voluntary pension funds, it's all under our roof, but we're not lacking courage, we're not lacking love in commitment to business, but it's not going fast, it's not easy. The fact that we are also attacked by the president as someone who is a cap on all of this, that and that Serbia too finds faults, even some of us individually. You know what they say, maybe you don't like Nothing, I do, when it says, "Who's in heights?" So there will always be objections, but because I consider your objections to be well-intentioned, I've taken so much time from the MPs to explain to you that I'm doing more than you think and what you can imagine, but the effects are pretty good, and I hope they'll be better. Thank you for asking, and for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9024	I thank you, too, for an exhaustive and very useful explanation of certain questions. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9025	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Tabakovic, I thank you for explaining to many fellow Members, above all what the role of the NBS is, because the first thing both citizens and fellow MPs will say – is always about the course of the dinar. They forget often, and many don't even know what the essence of NBS' work really is, some live in the times of the single-party system when the financial market was controlled by the Central Bank, but even then the only party that was allowed was controlled by banks, controlled by the National Bank, there were various primary emissions. I can't be surprised, let someone explain to me what a controlled primary show is, to cause a slight drop in the dinar. Well, we had that not so long ago. We don't want to talk about the '90s. Here, Danica Popovic did it through the governor at the time, spoke counterpart Marinkovic about when the dinar weakened for the euro more than 50% from 2008 to 2012, and that was that controlled emissions, that was that called controlled inflation. What did we have as a result? As a result, we had five billion euros of foreign exchange reserves sold, as a result of which we had a course from 78 jumps to 119,80, so much as on August 5, 2012, when you were elected governor, we had the closure of all healthy business entities, we had that because of such business policy and the primary emissions and the few investors who were running away in Serbia, regardless of the fact that during that period, Serbia was left so famous and praised Ju-Es-Stil, that, in 2011, 2012, the memory served me well on this issue, and these were the results of these controlled primary emissions, so that apparently, fellow Glisic, would hear only from our near past what was happening to us with controlled primary emissions, we had as a consequence of inflation, the closure of factories, the facilities, the escape of investors and at the end of the 28% unemployment rate. No healthy economy can say that it can be good and that it has some substance that will have some substance that will have some of that primary show controlled to benefit itself. Someone's going to say, well, it's agriculture that has a new value, and it forgets if the euro or dollar goes down that it's going to collect fuel, that it's going to raise plant protection funds, that it's going to raise food funds, that it's going to, in some ways, collect labor. Will this agricultural product now be more competitive on the international or domestic market because of the controlled primary emissions? They won't, because the input impulses for the production of this product, in proportion to that controlled primary emissions, have increased. What do you have as a consequence? You have that for as many percent as there was a primary show, you're poorer, both as a state and as an economy and as a citizen. And it's called "controllable" or "uncontrollable," you're poorer. And you did nothing good to your economy to make it more competitive on the international market. We talk about domestic banks all the time. We had our own domestic banks, not all Dinkic shut them down. Agrobank was not imprisoned by Dinkic, she was closed by the former regime, first by a vice-government, which I think is a state-of-the-art indignity, so she still has the courage to appear in public and attack the current National Bank policy, falsified reports on the credit rating "Agrobank". I think it was Arsic, my last name. Imagine that -- the National Bank falsifies a report on the work, on the credit rating of a bank that it has to control. What's the damage? The damage is 600 million euros. Who paid for it? Serbian citizens from the budget. We had another development bank because I'm talking about development banks. Here's the Vojvodina Development Bank. Who ruined her? Well, Peach. And yet back then, the central bank was silent about the state of Vojvodina Development Bank. It's too bad. It's small, about 400 million. When you turn behind our banking sector, the state, as both banks were state-owned, you will look at the former regime and for only two billion-euro damage banks, just two banks. Let's see how they acted, now we're telling a story about how foreign banks are evil. No, they're not, mate. They're as evil as we let them, not as bad as they want. During the former regime, they could trade interest. You know, you close the contract, so the contract states that at the moment the interest is closed, the case works, 10 or 11%, but that it can change according to the bank's business policy. It was during the former regime. Can such a contract be concluded today? No way. During the former regime, Boris Tadic, Gilas and others, for example, raise credit for the foreign exchange clause, your bank pays your money in a lower course, which, of course, it has set, and you repay the loan at a higher rate, which the bank has set again. Now, you see what it looks like when we start playing with primary shows, when the National Bank as a central bank and its primary role -- inflation control, not exchange rate control, the second basic role in that primary part is financial market control, that the National Bank as a central bank creates a fair financial market with any bank, foreign or domestic, and believe me, there's no difference. Because if a domestic businessman owns a bank, he'll behave the same way on the market, it's his money and his interest and his profit, and I don't know how much more there is in the world of state banks. The job of the National Bank is to create fair conditions, not only between banks, but between banks and financial services users. First of all, I mean the economy and the population. Because without the banking sector, you can't finance the economy, you can't develop the economy, you don't have a consumer society. But these conditions have to be fair, they have to be predictable, they have to be known for the economy so they can make their business plans for the population, so they know how much their credit power really is that they can pick up credit, buy someone good, live normally and repay that credit. After that, I don't know how many years we managed to have in Serbia for the first time. Since I've known about myself, it hasn't been there, or even in the days of socialist Yugoslavia. It wasn't. We're talking about whether the exchange clause is constitutional or not. Data is one possibility in the Constitution. How long will it be like that? Well, until we level our reference interest rates with the European Central Bank reference rate. There will be no more need for loans indexed in euro. Then we move on to full dinarization, on our own, not administratively, but market-based. Now we're risking, we can only determine dinar loans, but we're afraid we're going to increase interest rates for these loans a little bit. There has never been a minor difference between the reference rate of the National Bank of Serbia and the European Central Bank. In the long run, I believe it will equalize. At this point, even the lower rate of reference of our bank than it was in 2008, when the global economic crisis broke out. The lower your reference interest rate, the lower your credits and more money the economy can direct to its development, and the more the population can focus on improving the quality of life, creating, in doing so, a consumer society that finances the state. Now you see what it looks like when you go a little deeper into the essence of what the National Bank is. It's not a course, much more than that, it's much more important than that, because that policy, when we start to implement fiscal consolidation measures, when NBS is controlling, or editing, I can't say that it was control, the financial market, so we're talking about 2015, when loans started with 32%, 33%, 34%, to decrease to 13%, 14% and 15%, so that 20% of the difference between credits actually triggered the Serbian economy, gave us a chance that what Alexander Vucic was doing as Prime Minister and Government, that this is starting to happen, and then what banks, due to the regulation of the market, had to give up one part of our profits, as a consequence we have improved quality, but another thing, we can start those essential reforms that needed Serbia, and what day we're going to do today. But today we still enjoy the good results of these reforms. So I believe that the NBS in the next period will insist on all this, because only those who don't know how the banking sector works, what all the pressures the banking sector can make, and on the management of the NBS and the governor, so I know, the moment I read an article on salaries in the NBS, I know that the NBS has stepped on some lawless bank. Rest assured, it has nothing to do with wages. It has to do with what they want to put pressure on the NBS to carry on as they did, and that wasn't good for the citizens, not for the economy, not for the country. I'm not interested in wages, I'm interested in results. The results are essential. Is it easier to live in Serbia in 2021 than it was in 2012? It's easier to live. Is our business system better? It is, and it's more tough and we managed to make the economic system survive the crown, which is far more serious than the global economic crisis in 2008. That crisis was a little baby for what's happening right now, because the whole world economy is suffering the effects of the crown. With one good deed, aside from the Prime Minister then, today the President of the Republic of Serbia, President Alexander Vukic, certainly has one piece of credit from the National Bank of Serbia which has proved to be a truly serious, independent institution. Believe me, knowing how many other central banks operate in other countries, we can be proud of our Central Bank. Keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9026	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, for your exposure. Let's move on with the list. The word has been respected by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9027	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs Tabakovic and my associate, today I will be in front of the JS parliamentary group in a few minutes, as long as I have time, explaining why JS will support the proposed candidate in the voting day. The material delivered to us shows that you, Mrs Tabakovic, have again proposed to Mrs Anna Ivkovic for Vice Governor of the National Bank and by reading its biography, I see that she has been doing many responsible jobs in the National Bank for development, reports, analysts, leading many projects and, of course, by her work, and as your associate, has contributed to making the National Bank of Serbia publicly available and transparent today. Otherwise, in the last nine years, the National Bank of Serbia has been very successful in implementing a management-led floating exchange rate that is in line with the National Bank of Serbia's monetary strategy, which implies targeting inflation. I must stress that the relative stability of the exchange rate under the regime is of paramount importance not only for achieving the goals of the National Bank of Serbia but also for the entire Serbian economy. I hope you will continue with this strategy in the future, because if it already brings such good results, it should not be changed. Regardless of criticism in public whether the National Bank of Serbia is guarding a dinar or a euro and whether you are secretly maintaining a fiscal course, you have shown that in a situation of increased uncertainty throughout the world it is very important to send this clear signal that this uncertainty from the international environment will not be allowed to be transferred to the domestic environment. This is one of the reasons why investors did not leave the domestic market, but rather kept their investment, kept their trust in Serbia in the crisis 2020. I hope that's how it's going to be in 2021, since we can see that the pandemic is obviously going to affect the year 2021. The National Bank of Serbia, under the extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, has met the law of defined objectives, low-level inflation has been preserved, thus preserving the real value of the profits, and these days it is also talking about an increase, which is why it is due to all of this, minimum earnings in Serbia. Negotiations between the Union of employers and the state began. This is another proof that the stability of the course and economic stability are preserved in conditions where many economically stronger countries have had higher oscillations in the last year and a half. Not to mention everything the state did during the pandemic and to help our businessmen to leave minimal traces of the Serbian economy. Besides the businessmen, the state helped with the package, both workers and pensioners. I can say that it is good to hear that in the next period, the state will also help pensioners, but what is very important for JS, as a socially responsible party whose family is sacred and for which the family represents a pillar of society, is also announced to help Serbian families, i.e. to encourage as many children to be born. I hope that through the 2022 budget we will adopt all those measures announced by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. When we read some analysis, it just scares the results that by 2050, we'll be under six million. I think it's an alarm for all of us to, as individuals and as a society, help us to have as many of us as possible and that these results are just one statistic that won't find a place in reality. To go back to the National Bank of Serbia. The dinar remained relatively stable towards the euro, which gives businesses and citizens the necessary certainty for business and planning. The dinar savings continued double-digit growth and reached the highest amounts so far. Problem loans have been further reduced. Foreign exchange reserves in Serbia were preserved at a high and stable level of more than 13 billion euros in 2020 compared to previous years, i.e. 2018, I found such data, were doubled. I must stress that Serbia has stepped up its work to comply with the EU legal frameworks and has made significant progress in economic areas, the rights of business society, intellectual property rights and financial services, which we can conclude that Serbia is fully capable of taking on the commitments arising from EU membership. What's important is that we record a significant reduction in unemployment and the lowest in the last decade. The labour market, in the last few years, has recorded a significant improvement. Resuscitation of economic activity has led to an increase in real profits, as I said in 2019 and 2020, and I hope that some expectations for 2022, as regards minimum earnings, will be that we will have that minimum earnings in Serbia are over 300 euros. I think when we look at the last few years, it's historic for our workers. I don't know how much the businessmen will like it, but certainly the workers will like it, and that's something that's real and it's direct support, direct help to our citizens. The European Commission said in its 2020 report that authorities in Serbia are committed to micro-economic stability, the continuation of economic reforms, that economic growth has been strong and that it has kept the pace of growth in recent years. We can say that in the first half of 2021, there are good economic indicators, despite the difficult circumstances of the pandemic, the fact that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has increased Serbia's growth forecast by 6% this year, which is twice its estimate since September 2020. The International Monetary Fund has designed Serbia's real GDP growth for 2021 by 6%. These are good indicators that Serbia is in addition to all the challenges it faces and encounters daily in the right direction. I am sure that this positive course will continue and that through the European Commission's report, Serbia's integration with the EU has remained high. The European Union is Serbia's further trading and investment partner, participate in 2/3 of total trade and provide more than half of the net inflow of foreign direct investment. The total bilateral trade between the EU and Serbia has increased by 4.8% to 26.5 billion euros, and we do not need to stop there, but to increase these percentages because the EU market is huge. The pace of GDP growth has been accelerated, the budget deficit has been reduced, and the total funding on sound grounds and to the greatest extent thanks to the high inflow of foreign investment, and you will agree that in this economic chaos in which the whole world is located, it is a great recognition for both our country and for all the efforts our country is making, of course, headed by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, but also for certain local self-governments that have managed to preserve existing foreign investors, but also to bring new ones. You won't mind me making an example of Jagodina, not because the president of JS comes from Jagodina, but because they're pioneers about bringing foreign investors and there are 14 investors in Jagodina right now. I know how much it means to a local self-government investment that provides new jobs. I come from the King and in the last two, two and a half years, since the German company Leoni and Turkish Tajip are operating in the King's office, there has been a significant standard for the citizens of the Kings, it has been employed by more than 3,000 citizens with a tendency to increase the number of employees more and that is the best support the state can give to citizens, which is to provide them with work, economic security, support for the family, as I have said what is planned. I am sure that this will stop our people from leaving the country, that in the years that come we will be more and that is one of the priorities of this government, that is one of the many reasons why a unique Serbia supports this work, and I have cited all the reasons why JS will support your proposal in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9028	I thank Vice President Yevdzic. Next on the list, Honorable Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9029	Thank you, Your Honor. The MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support this proposal, as you have heard today from the address of academics Zukorlic, simply for the reason of one household relationship, a relationship based on fundamental values and preservation and the construction and restoration of all those devastated parts of our country that have been destroyed in previous years and decades by those who did not have this approach of household and household in terms of the preservation of what is the national register and is the national money. That is why, as MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, we support this approach and everything that goes in the direction of preserving, strengthening and developing our society. We are trying to promote both for these purposes and today this address, as well as everything we've done in the previous period, goes in favour of this positive discourse. What is very important to us is that when it comes to this joint house, which in the previous period has been extremely devastated, here is evidence of both the National Bank and the Governor and its team that one good relationship can achieve all of this, and what they have destroyed for decades, corrected, corrected, that and in this joint household, this joint house, when such strong movements occur, are evenly distributed, and these renovation processes, i.e. that these investments, at the level of the whole state, are evenly distributed and that those municipalities that suffered the most due to this non-domestic relationship during the period when some others acted in power, are represented by investments to at least compensate for what was wrong with them. Here I am, above all, talking about the area of Sandzak from which I come, where bad privatisation has destroyed every serious business entity that existed, where one non-domestic relationship between local authorities in previous periods has destroyed every positive economic perspective and where private business with dirty capital from criminal structures has been choked for decades and where actually young people don't have the opportunity to simply, perspectiveally, develop all their ideas. That is why I believe that in this period when the government's register is stable, when we are moving towards the development of the entire state, we need to invest a little more in these environments with regard to positive investments, as has already been driven by infrastructure, but also by those that would allow the employment of young people in sectors that are necessary for the progress and development of our society. Therefore, this example of the National Bank, an example of the haznadar or guardian, of what is our common wealth, should be an example to all those who will follow it so that the whole of our joint house will feel all the sweetness of development and prosperity that feel a little more in some central parts of the country, where investment, investors already have a good impact on progress, and a little less on these edges, and therefore should work more intensively in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9030	Thank you, Your Honor. Next on the list, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9031	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President-in-Office, honourable governor, fellow MPs, today we are talking about the proposal of the governor for election of Deputy Governor of NBS, namely Mrs. Ana Ivkovic, who has been elected to the six-year term, who has successfully done her job and has indeed been on the team of governors who have successfully worn full support over the past eight years for the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia. This is of great importance to us because we have to say what people who have really given support to both the governor and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic when we have been looking at this economic growth and the development of Serbia for the past eight years, have given an unselfish commitment when it comes to business. In fact, Serbia's results are best spoken of and what we on the Committee have had the opportunity to hear, it is in fact what the results of Serbia achieved in the time before the pandemic and after the pandemic, especially when we talk about the results for the first six months of this year. That's what it actually shows which way Serbia was going. By 2012, she had taken a completely economic Sunflower, into one uncertainty, brought the citizens into a completely invisible position when we talk about life in general of every citizen and his family, to live first in one uncertainty, not to know at all how they will live tomorrow and what they will offer, what an ambience of life to their children, to the fact that simply pensioners have come into the situation that the question of whether they will ever receive a pension, teachers in school pay, as well as health workers. So, all those sectors that are from that non-profit part, that don't make that direct growth and profit development in their companies, because they were totally uncertain whether they could even live the lives of normal people. By taking over the responsibility of SNS and Mr. Alexander Vukic, who was then the first Deputy Prime Minister, it has simply proved that there is this political step in which you and Serbian citizens are talking in a completely open way, and that is to tell them the truth – what is it that awaits them if you do not change not only behavior, but also the way in which we should simply work together, which is that it is simple work that brings us growth and development and as a society and each individual, to change what is the mentality of our man, and that is that we should live from that work and that is based on sustainability, which means how much we earn, that we spend so much in our lives. Do not promise that politicians will gain something if it is not earned and that, in addition to these economic reforms programmes that Serbia as a state should have implemented, to implement one reform of our understanding in general, how we should live for Serbia's future, or how we should live for the future for the good that will bring results to all of us. Obviously, it came after the economic reforms implemented since 2014, and you know how you worked from 2012 to 2014 when you were governor and what ambience you were working in then as NBS and how much trouble it really was to overcome and change. Finally, and the way in which the NBS itself works, that people get used to working first of all when we talk about banks in the interests of the state and in the interests of all citizens of Serbia, how hard it was to really work at that time and prepare for the period when you need to make high growth rates and when you really need to start an economy in an adequate way, and to protect that economy, not to look exclusively at your institution's interest in the sense that, as you said, you are making certain marketing campaigns in that part and in some way maintaining that stability and instilling trust in all citizens of Serbia, but also to international institutions that what you say will do. This is in fact a message to citizens that, based on this policy you have led and as governor in co-operation with the Serbian government when Mr. Vukic was prime minister, you simply made a full contribution to making these results visible. In fact, these results have shown that in the pre-crisis period, this momentum that we have achieved with high growth rates, with job creation, with a decrease in unemployment below 10%, with an increase in the NBS foreign reserves, for all what has really been done in a very fast and efficient way, at a time when it came in 2020, we at least lost as a society in this growth, or falling 1%, because what you keep saying to us on the Committee, and in fact, citizens need to hear that it was not, that this economic growth and really work in every segment of society in the economy did not come to an end last year with a 6% decline in social product, which is actually the average of European countries. We ended up with a 1% drop and showed that we have economically tough economic activity and we have shown that we can deal with many challenges in society, which simply many economies have conquered, which can hardly come into the recovery that we quickly did. That's what's important to us. Because yesterday you had a chance to hear from President Vukic, who announced that the high growth rate will be in 2021, means 7% sure, maybe even 7.5% that since 1 December we will have 10 open corridors, road and highway projects, that we will have the opportunity to significantly increase salaries and pensions in a sustainable way. That's the essence of this whole work. When we talk about the NBS results, I will now be absolutely exact, on the basis of what the governor presented to us in her report, which is that, in addition to 2,241 persons employed by the NBS, the minimisation of economic damage was done on the basis of the measures that the Republic of Serbia and the NBS together with the Government of Serbia had proved to be timely, adequate and that this coordination and business activities and the Government of Serbia and the President had given these good results, that the measures that we had in this pre-crisis period, too, and you remember the chapters of many that we opened with the EU, the NBS in which it participated and ran those chapters, all opened up in a certain way, and the European Commission and the EU really supported that work and recognized the quality of this work. Without the NBS measure, without it, it's simply formal employment could also not fall below 10%. It's at 9.4%, but it's 4.8% exclusively for the private sector. This shows that employment in the private sector is higher than in the state sector. I'll remind you, those who ran the state in 2012 and those who would now return, and who exercised power, function, run large systems, had an unemployment rate of 26.1% and just almost twice the percentage of state sector employees, but in the private sector. What does that mean? This means that it really took a lot of wisdom, strength and recognition of the co-operation of institutions to start the economy, to open up new jobs, to lead responsible and external and internal policies, just so that many countries would cooperate with you in this adequate way. When we talk about monetary policy, it was a key pillar of stability and that's what this stability course has brought. And when we talk about low inflation, it moved in the last year to 1.6%, it's drawn somewhere at 3%, but in that base section it's 2%. The stability of that course, when we talk about the dinarization of our economy, has actually prevented all those risks that occurred in 2020. When we talk about reducing the interest rate, it was down by 1.25% in the last year. In fact, when you look at what is the result of this whole work and the past, when we talk about eight years of the foreign exchange reserve, which is now 36.6 tonnes, it means when we talk about gold, which is 1.8 billion euros, which is 12.3% of the total reserves, when we talk about money, it's 13.5 billion euros in 2020, and today it's already at 14.1% because we have these six months, almost 115 million euros is growth in 2020 compared to the previous year. We have had the opportunity to hear on the Committee, how responsible it is to work, when it comes to foreign reserves and when it comes to buying gold, and you will remember that these reserves were slightly less than 10 tonnes, when we talk about the time when it took over as Governor of Ms Tabakovic. Now you see what this is about when it comes to the functioning of the NBS. Today we face and last year, with pressures on the oil price market, on the food price market, construction material that is almost doubled. All this, the NBS resists and somehow creates this environment for foreign direct investment to grow bigger and bigger. Last year ended with three billion euros, and the first six months here for 1.72 billion euros of foreign direct investment, which is 18.9% more than when you look at the previous period. The preservation of credibility in fact of NBS is shown by these results and the very resilience of the domestic economy is also shown through problematic loans. That part also follows up. The report says that 0.4% is lower than the percentage of problematic loans, which in fact shows that the citizens of Serbia, but also the economy, are starting to carry on bravely, when it comes to borrowing, means that it serves its loans, even repays more than it should, and thus shows a large protection and security of Serbia's economy. In fact, Serbia has shown that it is a favourable economic destination and shows simply that this arrangement, which is concluded with the IMF, is somehow the NBS justified in front of the IMF, that it should not do any economic reform when it comes to the NBS itself, because this is actually a policy that gives results and when one team wins, then it should continue to work on that path, because that policy actually gives support, not only to Serbia, but to the whole region, and the IMF observes both the region and observes this economic stability for future co-operation when it comes to the region and the EU. According to this, dinarisation was not prevented at the time of 2020. In fact, it has proved to be even increased savings in dinar loans. The governor said that up to the first six months of savings in dinars amounted to about 100 million dinars, which is five to six times more than when we talk about 2012. Co-operation with the EU and the European Commission is seen precisely in the fact that the chapters are all open. Some of them are even closed. That this part of financial services when it comes to bank co-operation is also one of the chapters that has been closed, but also shows that the digitalisation process in the past year has been fully implemented by the NB, and it started in three or four years, we remember that when we spoke on the Committee, but what made us happy somewhere is that 52.2 million transactions were made when it came to so-called. e-banking, which is 492 billion dinars in general, ended up in that system of functioning directly with the citizens of Serbia, which has educated our oldest citizens who have contact with e-banking to move on to this system of functioning because somewhere so-called. The fourth industrial revolution affects all sectors. Well, somewhere in this banking sector is hitting all of us, and it's just giving us a way to go. Regardless of the age of all of us, the simple methods that we apply in collaboration with banks today are much higher than eight years ago, but this education that the National Bank has implemented through its contact and coll centres should indeed show that the essence of the work is when you run an institution. The legislative role of the National Bank of Serbia, I think it's also recognized here in parliament. I remind you that one of the working groups that passed the new Digital Property Act, the National Bank, along with the Securities Commission, had value. It is one of those laws that we adopted here in the Assembly, in the end, that all this I have stated has led to a responsible monetary and macroeconomic policy, thus creating preconditions for high growth rates, but also sustainable growth and that this stability and predictability of business has led all businesses to the fact that Serbia is indeed one of the good economic, investment destinations for which many large companies are interested. This is what you see from the fact that indeed big companies appear to both the president of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, that they want to open up production capacities. In light of this, it is obvious that Mrs Merkel's visit, which ends her office duty, is an obvious opportunity to simply show how much these relations between Germany, which is the most developed economic power in the European Union, have progressed in co-operation with Serbia. Since 2012 when there were 17,000 employees of Serbian citizens in German companies, it has now come to 71,000 employees, nearly two and a half billion euros during the trade exchange between Germany and Serbia at the time, in 2012, it came to six billion euros last year, and the growth shown in terms of overall co-operation between German and Serbian businessmen is two and a half times, meaning 250%, while the growth of our exports is almost three times larger than it was. Foreign direct investment by German companies, as you know, are very high and what is very important to us is that sustainability of wage increases, pensions and public debt is below 60%, in fact dictated by these revenues and exchanges of trade, not only with Germany but with all countries both in the east and west. What is, in fact, an indicator of these economic results, how ready we are to share all these good results with the citizens of Serbia. Well, we're as ready as we can say that the minimum person who was 17,700 dinars in 2014 today will have been projected in agreement with the government and the economic council and trade unions at 35,000 dinars, that the plan "Serbia 20-25" which says that the minimum wage will be 900 euros, that the average pension will be 440 euros, simply for us is the path that we really go. This is what, regardless of what we have big problems with health sector challenges as well as all the countries when it comes to childcare hospitals, we can boast that in this year we have three new birds of hospitals open, that we have medical equipment that assures healthcare professionals that they can deal adequately with this pandemic that has hit the whole world. After all, in some ways we function normally as a society in terms of the education system, in terms of economic activity, and that we have found this winning combination, somewhere a balance between the problem caused by the crown and what is economic growth and the development of this society. The science sector, of course without it, cannot and what has proved to be true at this time when everyone has left this sector somewhere, precisely because of the pandemic, we are rapidly developing this sector through infrastructure. We had a chance yesterday to see that Belgrade and Nis dormitories would get a new 1400 beds. So, in every segment of society, we've made progress. Serbia, which was in 2012 and this Serbia in 2021, is completely different and what shows the responsibility of all of us here who really want to support the work of not only the government of Serbia, the NBS, but also the president of the country are in fact the results of which next year we should go to the citizens of Serbia and say – do you want to choose a path in the future that will lead us to prosperity or do you want to go to the path offered by Dilas, Marinika, Vuk Jeremic, the path that they have filled their own pockets, and where they have put everyone's other pockets in the problem and put their children's future as collateral for something they hold in their private bank accounts. Let the citizens choose which way they want to go. The National Bank of Serbia will certainly help on the road. I think it's appropriate your proposal for a vice governor to get another term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9032	Thank you. Next on the list is MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9033	Thank you. It is very important that one country has individuals, groups or teams of people who are able to at any time, especially in some times of crisis, with their knowledge, eloquence, effort and struggle, to contribute to this country and society coming out of this crisis with the least possible consequences. The NBS, in co-operation and co-ordination with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was a generator and one of the bearers of heavy reforms that the SNS carried out after coming to power in 2012, with the aim of recovery of public finances and the resolution of the catastrophic economic situation in Serbia before 2012. The National Bank of Serbia led by you, Mrs Tabakovic, also showed seriousness at the time of the Kovid 19 crisis, when a series of measures taken and timely measures mitigated the financial consequences of the pandemic and preserved Serbia's economic and monetary stability. When we talk about finance and economics, I always stick to numbers, because I'm not an expert, so they're my standard, whether they're good or not. It is also the opinions and views of certain relevant international institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank. When we look at the figures and compare where we are today, and where we were nine years ago, it will be clear to all of us who are laymen, who are not experts at what results both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS have done to you over the past nine years. Unemployment in 2012, about 24 to 25%. Today, this unemployment is at a historic minimum, somewhere between seven and eight percent. Public debt is 80%, today is below the Mastricht level, so somewhere around 54. 55%. Foreign reserve, you said yourself, correct me if I'm wrong, Mrs. Tabakovic, 15.6 billion. Gold reserves increased by 21 tonnes and are 36.8 tonnes. Investment credit rating, we are close to getting an investment credit rating, and in the time of the 2020 crisis, we attracted nearly three billion direct foreign investment. All that is not a problem, all that is data, all that is verifiable, the problem is when as experts today, those who brought these results to be so disastrous by 2012, and then you have little, little, so someone from that former regime shows up to criticise you, and in their time inflation 12.2%, I think directly of former Governor Šoškovic. You've been holding inflation for about 2% for years. The dinar course managed to raise to 119 dinars in just four years from 78. You keep the dinar course steady for many years. Then we're all wondering why she's nervous? Why the anxiety in the ranks of the former regime, among the same people who convinced us in 2009 that the global economic crisis is our chance, and they left half a million people out of work. Well, they lied to us, they lied to us that way, as they did many times before and after they lied to us. They lied about a 1,000-euro action, but what to expect from people who even have Kosovo independence only if they come after the elections. I think Serbian citizens vote for results, vote for the programme and vote for one responsible policy conducted by both the government and the president of the state, as well as you as the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. I often wonder, is it possible, where the support of the citizens of Serbia is for those members of the former regime, where it is lost? Is it possible that such a small percentage of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia forgot the benefits of the former regime, while ruling Serbia, carried out? Then, in a conversation with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I realize that no one will support the robbery privatisation and closure of factories, but of course the opening of new factories and new jobs will deserve support from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No one will support 450m euros given for a 900m-long bridge, and that's how much a 30.9km highway from Preljina to Požega with 35 bridges and three tunnels today. Why would someone support Sutanovac, Ponos and Tadic who melted our tanks and sold in old irons while we're raising the dedicated industry today and arming ourselves with daily state-of-the-art weapons? No one will support Borko Stefanovic and his talks in Kosovo and Metohija and Vuk Jeremic, who has raised the puzzling issue to the International Court of Justice, the issues of Kosovo's independence. We know how the deal gets. While we are today trying in every way possible to preserve KIM in our composition and we have a problem with Pristina that will not implement what is signed, from Brussels to Washington. No one will support those who did not care about citizens, our compatriots and Serbs living in BiH, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Kosovo and Metohija. Unlike us who in all ways today are more than ever trying to bring these people closer to the queen and be available to them. All of these, as I said, are results, and all of these are facts supported by evidence, supported by something that is easily visible. What I'm sure is challenging to all of us here who are being achieved as parents and with us who are not is bitterness and disgust when someone in their struggle is trying to bring in someone's children. Of course, I did not tell the political struggle because it had long gone beyond the limits of political struggle. I'm proud that none of us here has ever mentioned a single child's name from any opposition politician, none of us ever. That's how it's supposed to be. I hope it stays that way. While we daily on different portals, we read on different media texts, ordered texts about the children of Alexander Vukic and his family, and then we wonder why some lunatic inspired these texts go there on Twitter, Instagram, or Facebook, and write such an abomination and such one message threat to those same children. We all approve of the public office and that function should be subject to criticism and to the public court. I don't have a problem with being nice or less likable, someone saying I'm smart or less smart, I don't even have a problem with someone on social networks writing me a threat, an insult. I accept that, but I can't understand. I think these are ways to fight people who have no argument, so people who are basically weak and who only know how to hate. So, in the end, I want to give my support to President Vukic and to all of you fellow MPs here and to endure all of us in this fight that we are fighting, because if I have learned something and seen something for this year here in this House, each of you, or all of us, the great majority of us, loves Serbia more than anything else, and is ready for that same Serbia to do everything. That's exactly what the problem is. Thank you for your attention and for living Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9034	Thank you, Mr. Srbanovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. I thank the esteemed governor, Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic for his participation in her presentations and explanations. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the motions for decisions referred to in points 8, 9 and 10 of the agenda. I'm setting a break in 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9035	Dear People's MPs, we continue to work, with a debate in particular in the Consumer Protection Bill. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications; Uroš Kandić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications; Višnja Rakić, Assistant Minister for Consumer Protection at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications; Tamara Samardzic, Senior Advisory and Systemic Affairs Advisor from the area of consumer protection in the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Vera Revcanin Orlović, Head of the Legal Affairs Group in Tourism. Welcome, thank you for being here. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Consumer Protection Law You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Sandra Bozic, Branimir Jovanovic and Djordje Komlenski. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9036	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course we support the accepted amendment and since the Consumers Act should be in mind and in the morning part of the session and thank the National Bank of Serbia for a good monetary policy, to thank the ruling majority that has enabled the growth of gross domestic products, which has allowed the employment of 320,000 new people in production and our economy, therefore, to produce money. A little poverty left over and slightly weaker mercenaries, I have to remind you that the minimum wage from 15,000 dinars went to 35,000, that the average salary from 328 euros from 2012 increased to 560 euros, which resulted in an increase in consumption. I think that still money should be allocated as much as possible to those who have less and those who are slightly less paid, for the simple reason that they as consumers are filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia. For free of Gilasu's 619m euros, we have no use as a state of these 619m euros, since they are reportedly listed somewhere far away in Mauritius and other white-world islands, so they are not the subject of spending in the Republic of Serbia. Such money is not taxed and something poorer, something less paid for it is not produced by the poor, but produced by the rich, such as Dragan Gilas, who, when he takes the money to the white world islands, is no longer in circulation in the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to the fact that the average salaries jumped, thanks to the employment of 320,000 people, consumer purchasing power has jumped. We should have seen with the satisfaction of our tourists in all the seas that were available to us, so I think they should still have enough money and have more money, so that they can meet their needs and go to sea. Let's go back to 2012, we can almost list ordinary families that could afford any vacation, let alone wintering. Most of them, like Balša Bozovic, Goran Jesic and the team, took flight in winter, because they were more expensive variants, while ordinary people, the sea, wintering them, skiing them are not available to them, what is today and how it is possible and it is a real pleasure to see our tourists when you go to the sea and when you see ordinary families and multi-members who can afford them because their salaries have grown, which makes the family bills fatter. It is a real pleasure to see that people from money made, therefore, real money from the economy, from economic growth can take their families to the sea, that they can spend more money, and also in these foreign trade chains, and that in such a way, they can return through taxes to the state and in such a way that those employed in the public sector come in some way real profits. That is why I think that in the future more attention should be paid to our consumers, i.e. not to be the subject of various frauds that can take place on our market. I wish these foreign trade chains were ours, I would of course like it to be more and more domestic goods, I think it will happen one day, but I have to say that thanks to economic growth, foreign investment, where foreign investors, except that they invest here capital, in a certain way, bring security that each of them already has a market for the goods they produce here. Thanks to them, we're growing our exports and everything we buy from the goods here, we make up for the increased exports, because today it's covered by almost 80%, and during those yellow cockroaches it was 50%. With this in mind, I support that this amendment has been accepted, because the policy led by state leadership and the ruling majority goes in favour of the poor and less-paid which was not previously the case during these unfortunate people who are offered abroad as some political force which, if allowed by foreign factors, would allow them to force a change of government that allowed economic progress, they are about to send a message that they would recognise what they failed to recognise by 2012, recognise Kosovo's independence. A clear message from Gilas' team is that in the situation, they would change politics and not protect Serbs in Montenegro, BiH and other former Yugoslav republics. The message they send would be next, that if someone allowed and admitted a possible violent change of government, they would also accept the disappearance of Republika Srpska, or accept the unitaryisation of BiH. These citizens themselves need to be clear that such a political force would not work for the benefit of Serbian citizens, would not work in favour of an increase in salaries and pensions, in order to mainly work to increase their accounts, to deepen their wallets, to the detriment of Serbian citizens' wallets. And let me tell you about this team, to be clear, that at this point they're making some money to raise the atmosphere, and that money is stolen from marketing, domestic media, because they're illegally broadcasting commercials every day, almost half a million euros steal from the media, and they're funding politics against state leadership, and I'll dare say against the state. Dear citizens, to know that those who think that money can do anything, to know that because of the money, they would be willing to do everything against the state and against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9037	Thank you. The amendment has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9038	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kovac, the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Matic, with her associates, distinguished fellow MPs and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, had it not been for the change of government in 2012, the state of Serbia would have failed, had a financial collapse and who knows how we would have a consumer society. The first step towards consumer protection in Serbia took place in 2012 when she left the DS authorities with her partners and when we had the final departure from Belgrade, Dragan Gilas and DS in 2014. Why am I talking about this? Because in 2012, we are in the elections in 2014 and in any subsequent elections, and even in these elections that will follow the national year, Serbia always has two times, one time protecting the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and another time protecting the interests and wealth of Dragan Gilas and his political parliaments. Fortunately, as of 2012, Serbia has chosen for the first time for the most part here. I hope that this will be the case next year and in any subsequent election, that citizens will always be defined for what is in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, which is protection and consumer, that is to protect both all citizens of Serbia and their families and create a basis for a better future, for our Serbia, i.e. Making a better future for our children. It is only possible if we always choose this first time, it is the policy path of interest for the citizens of Serbia, it is the policy of our President Aleksandr Vukic, it is the policy of our Serbian government. So it is also clear that they confirm again and again these current inscriptions, in the means of public information, under the control of Dragan Gilas, Šolak, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic, that they are interested, as far as we are saying today, both yesterday and before, to protect the interest of consumers, to give citizens, but only to the small number of citizens and consumers gathered around Dragan Dilas. You can't walk downtown Belgrade streets or municipalities, not run into some property of Dragan Gilas and his fellow Members. On Vracar, wherever I turn on a corner is one of the apartments of the family of Dragan Gilas or his brother Gok. That's because by 2012, they made such a system that only they had to spend as much as they wanted, they didn't even get to spend all tens and hundreds of millions of euros, Dragan Gilas and his fellow Serbian citizens. That's why Serbian citizens should always be reminded of what alternative they have. This good policy of the Serbian government, the good policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, has not only led to Serbia's rescue from financial collapse and pensions being paid regularly, but to increase pensions year after year, both pensions and salaries. And not only when it's a regular condition, but also when Corona is a virus. During last and this year, to remind again, as far as economic indicators are concerned, Serbia is the best in Europe, for 2020 and 2021. As for the fight against the crown of the virus and investment in the health system, Serbia is the leading in Europe, among the best in the world. Because it's no longer the ones who steal, because it's up to the authorities to look at the interest of Serbian citizens, who are not taking from the budget, but full budget, and when the budget is being filled, then there's enough to invest in health care, and when it's being invested in health care, when they're building vaccine factories, when they're building a new covid of hospitals, when we have concrete projects, and we've had opportunities to see on TV and in public information and on various portals, what it's going to look like to be a vaccine factory. So, the state of Serbia, not only saved itself, but is a regional leader and not only regionally, but also as regards the fight against the crowns of the virus and health policy and economics, one of the leading, if not the first in Europe. So, little Serbia at the borders, and big enough for all of us who love it, and we keep showing that responsible policy is being conducted, and that responsible policy is being led, because the state has a strategy. There are no areas where the state of Serbia has not paid attention, there is no minority state in a world with which we have not signed an agreement and we do not build good relations. Takes care, the average salary jumped from Gilas's 320 euros in 2012 to 560 euros, with a trend of growth in 2021, not to say that in some central Belgrade municipalities and some major cities in Serbia, and that salary is far above that 560-euro average, as young people do not leave the country, young people remain in the country. So, Serbia’s policy clearly shows what we are interested in, and the interest is to protect the interests of all Serbian citizens, and the interest is to fight for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the national interest and the interest is to build roads, because there is enough money in the budget, because Serbia is leading home policy, led by Alexander Vukić, we also have to build roads and build bridges that connect and build roads that lead us to a safe and better future. Not just us, but our children, and all the next generations. Our descendants will remember what the Government of the Republic of Serbia did to Alexander Vukic and later when Alexander Vukic became President of the Republic. But unfortunately, when you see the means of public information, you don't get that impression, because most of the media is criticizing everything I'm talking about. Why? Because it is unfortunately under the control of Dragan Gilas, and Gilas has the budget, but personal, not millions of euros, but measured in hundreds of millions of euros and a serious part of that budget will invest in the intention of returning to power and continuing to collapse Serbia, not to further increase that budget, but fortunately, it is the people who are asking themselves, the people who will always say no to Dragan Gilas and his thieving policy, and will always say that those who have a programme, that those who have a vision, that those who love Serbia and lead Serbia into a safe future, and in a safe future, Serbia is led by Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9039	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9040	Dear Vice President, I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the amendment, Mrs Sandra Christmas, because it is proof of respect for the views of the MPs and the National Assembly, as a legislative body. When it comes to our consumers, they are in a much more favourable position today than they were before 2012. Why? It is precisely because the overall development of the Republic of Serbia is much higher. Let us not forget, and the citizens remember very well, that in 2012, we found a country that was in an economic, industrial and infrastructure sense totally devastated. Today, if we look at these actions, it's really envious, we're actually in the process of modernization, the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, all the works and in all the fields, if there were no good and such an envious economic situation, our consumers would really be in a difficult situation. What's the result of all this? This is the result of the hard work of our citizens in the first place, then of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the NBS, which we talked about here this morning, thanks also to Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic, and first and foremost to the President of the Republic, as an engine for the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. Where are we today? When it comes to foreign reserves, at a significantly higher rate, our foreign exchange reserves are now at 15.6 billion, and in 2012, we were about 10 billion. Foreign gold reserves, 36 tons. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is more than a few of our neighbouring countries together, you see where Alexander Vukic's politics, and the Serbian Government, are in a much more favourable position. I remember back, and probably you, for three years, when the President of the Republic said it was good when we have foreign reserves and increased and I'm going to quote now, he says -- God forbid something happens to the state, it'll save us. Just after a year, his sentences were spoken, Covid happened, and that is exactly what gave us security in this situation to stand in the economy where we are. Let me say, because, as the previous debater, Mr. Mr. Mrdic said, every day we have lies from Dragan Gilas and his media and his associates. Those lies are getting a lot bigger. They donated the Satanization of individual members not only of the President of the Republic, his family, his children, but also of the MPs and members of the Government. They play movies for an hour, the inventions of the lowest kind. I will say today because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia only one part of what Dragan Gilas has said for you, respected citizens, and for the country with which the mockery has been right in the last three, four years and for the citizens he has called by name. Let me say that on the 13th of August, 2021, I guess they were vacations, so I thought no one would remember that, he said and said that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who voted for Alexander Vukic and SNS were monkeys. Imagine what he called the citizens? But let's move on. He does it every day. That's right, if you remember 2020, in 1607, he said and actually insulted our Chinese friends, the Republic of China, and the citizens, when he said, "Are we going to receive a Chinese vaccine that no one else is going to receive in Europe." Have you seen how many Chinese vaccines have been received in Europe? He boasts of our money, stolen, in 16 countries 53 destinations. You know, respected citizens, what did he say on August 18, 1920, again during his vacation? He thought no one would notice what he said. As he boasts about money, he says, "I paid for a night hotel 4,000 euros, and I can pay for one night and 17,000 euros for a villa at sea, as well as a 600-euro shoe and a 5,000-euro jacket." That's what he said on 18.08.2020. That's the money he took from our pockets, 619 million incomes and more every day. Gilas is moving on. He insults the most the President of the Republic, because he bothers him. You see, in 05.05.2020, he insulted Alexander Vukic on his television, Gilasov. That's what you could all hear that you were tracking back then. He, among other things, told N1 on TV about President Vukic that he was crazy, and then on the question of the journalist - will you stop it, Gilas replied - I will strengthen it. I quote, "Wolf, you are crazy," he repeated several times. What if it were Alexander Vukic as president of the state or our party or any of the MPs told Dragan Gilas? Why didn't the NGOs react? Where they were then, so-called. Independent journalists? None of them recorded that. Furthermore, in 20.01.2018, Gilas said, imagine, he is three years old: “Wolf, shame be upon you.” You know why he said that? Only the President of the Republic visited our southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija and visited the people suffering and brought help with it. He doesn't care about Kosovo and Metohija. He gave up, as you saw, Kosovo and Metohija. I have already quoted several times at the US Embassy what he said with Mrs Bras, that he is not interested in Kosovo and that he wrote it off and that he will advocate it, etc. In 1604, 2020, Gilas said: “Vucic has mental problems. He has some disorders, and he added: “I’m ashamed of you, Wolfie! Wolf, you're a crazy man." Can you, respected citizens, believe that this man says it? What if we said that about him or anyone else just because Alexander Vukic is leading the daily, economic, political and patriotic care of our country and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Gilas is moving on. His propaganda machine N1 showed, believe it or not, a map without Kosovo and Metohija on "between us" and that map stood on the screen for half an hour, which means there is no mistake of technical nature, because it really advocates independent Kosovo. That's what he said. I've quoted it several times. Let's move on. Dragan Gilas is the one with his associates who are destroying our country's institutions. He publicly, respected citizens, said that on 02.02.2018. He has been fighting helplessly against state institutions for three years and before. He said, along with his opposition at the time: "If we throw out dialogue from the Serbian Parliament, then as a society we have a problem." Says Gilas: “The congregation is where it is spoken. If we stop it, we stop all the media. They'll explode somewhere." Pay good attention, respected citizens, further says: "Who needs parliament? Come on, please. “ He is the one who pulled out of parliament here his MPs. He's not interested in parliament. He's interested in 619 million and how he'll protect them. Let's move on. Dragan Gilas, otherwise in a people called Điki Mafia, sent a letter, believe it or not, to the European Commission, accusing Serbia of not becoming part of the Kovaks mechanism when the state of Serbia with Kovaks and agreed and paid an advance to obtain the vaccine. At every step, it muds the state of Serbia, the president of the state and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dragan Gilas, 13/08.2009, please pay attention to the honourable MPs and you citizens of the Republic of Serbia, said in a conversation with the US Embassy's emissary of business in Belgrade: "I am in favour of the extradition of Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo and Metohija." Let him go out on his N1 and say if he said this or not. I don't know what the D.A.'s doing? According to the criminal code, the consequences are true for the one who advocates breaking our country. Let's move on. Gilas wrote a letter to Donald Tusk, otherwise to the President of the European People's Party and resented him for congratulating the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic on everything he did during his term and wishing him victory in the 22020 parliamentary elections. Can you believe, respected citizens, that this prosecutor does it all the time? Gilas also wrote a letter to Sam Fabrizio, the head of the EU delegation in Serbia and complained about the regime that allegedly harasses citizens and destroys Serbia at the moment Serbia is best economically and politically in the last 30 years. He wrote many letters away. Gilas media has been constantly satanicizing Serbs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. So his TV show, News Max Adri... In the evening, the editor addressed the show to the citizens. Pay attention, I thought the Croats were talking to them, but to the Serbs: "Good evening. Where were you in the '90s? How many villages have you burned? Did you bring home at least one fridge, ring or gold tooth? Did you kill at least one man in Srebrenica, arrest at least one Albanian in mass graves? “ It’s a shame to be Gilas. When he talks about gold teeth, he must know that the Croats in Jasenovac picked up all the gold from Serbs, from Jews and Roma. Their gold teeth, making diamonds. Of these diamonds, the Ustasha took one piece, took with them, and the other part remained on the Capitol. In 1991. Franjo Tudjman in his cabinet called Ferdinand Yukic and told him, quote - Come on, rich, you're getting weapons, because it was a ban on importing weapons, give him something and sell it. He says - President what? Here's the bags. Two sacks of diamonds from Serbian, Roma and Jewish teeth, to sell that and Tudjman takes the gun again, beat those people again. What did Gilas and his media, I believe they meant? Did he and his media ever talk about it? Of course not. Let's move on. Pay attention, respected citizens, to this data. Former US Ambassador to Belgrade, Cameroon Manter, said in 1903, quotes: "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade's development is only marketing, not real." It's a finished quote. Well, that's what he did when he was mayor, so he stole the money. Would tomorrow come to power and do the same? Of course I would do the same. He is not really interested in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nor is he in our country. Gilas is moving on. He also attacked US Ambassador to Belgrade, Mr. Godfrey, because Mr. Ambassador praised SNS and President Vukic. I'll quote. And then he fits Gilas, imagine, quote: "He will end a mandate that will only make sense if he opens an ethnic Serbian restaurant somewhere in America, as he mainly engaged in tours of culinary activities and Vukic". It's a finished quote. Is that how interstate relations are arranged and muddled by the ambassador, no matter what anyone thinks? This is not a way to insult neither the United States nor our president, just because the American ambassador praised our party. Let me say that his assistant political, Dr. Vesna Pesic, also told Gilas. I will now quote: "It is regrettable that you have been distracting the people for so many years," says Dr. Vesna Pesic, "and you have not learned what democracy is. The boycott of the election you advocate is not democracy, nor is it politics." Done quote, 28.5.2021. Even Vuk Jeremic's associate, because he doesn't care about the election. He's on the street, he said the day before yesterday, he's interested. He thinks he's on October 5th. No more October 5th, when you took control of the street and destroyed this holy temple where we are today. In the end, Gilas told his media that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, therefore Serbs and those who vote for Alexander Vukic and SNS monkeys, on 14 and 15.8.2021 again during their vacations. You see how he insults you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, if I don't stall, I'll say something else. That these attacks against President Vukic never in Serbia's history, I take care of Serbia's history, I study from the Tribals, meaning, from the time of the Tribals. The Tribals of the Serb tribe, which was a distant past for the Roman Empire. From the time of Tribal to this day, no Serbian ruler is as under attack as Aleksandar Vukic, and he has done more good for the benefit of citizens and the Republic of Serbia than Alexander Vukic has done. I'm just gonna make a few calls, for the sake of time, let's see. Last time I was ten, now I'm going to 17, see how our reporters, so-called. Analysts, so-called The opposition insults. They called him a dictator, a faggot, a picusti, a manipulator, a Vucic is an Albanian, a jerk, a psychopath, a half-wit, a crazy man, Hitler, a Mussolini, Franko, an abnormal fool, a person with a mental disorder, a first-born, an extremist Angela Merkel, a dynster, a jiberco, a mammlaz, a fukar, an uncomplicated fool, an idiot, an idiot, a butcher and the latest one, a Wolf Jeremic named him, that member of the international gang of thieves and con artists, told the President of the Republic that he was a frenzied engineer. That's what the mad Wolf Jeremy said. So, let me finish. While our president daily leads a policy of peace, a policy of security of all citizens and the Republic of Serbia, not only of the Republic of Serbia, but also of the environment, economic progress, cultural progress policy, a policy of co-operation of the good neighbourly, a policy of health of all of our citizens and not only of them, but also of the environment, a policy of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, a policy of seeking a compromise solution for our southern Serbian province, until Dragan Dilas, in a people called Điki Mafia, Vuk Jeremic, in a people known as a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds and other their fellows, muds the state of Serbia and its citizens at every turn, just to justify their looted money from the citizens of Serbia, in order to come to power and lead Serbia where they brought it in 2012, which is at the edge of bankruptcy. Dear citizens, after sending them into the political past, I'm sure they'll never, ever come back from the waste of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9041	On Article 12 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9042	Dear colleagues and colleagues, inspired by the speech of colleagues Rističević and his concern for all orchards, farmers and people who are trying to process the country to create the good of which we all live nicely, I must say, I did not take his advice, I did not go to sea this year, I was here in Serbia, doing what I usually do, sharing and giving these books. And I'm commending all the fruit producers for the reason I spent this summer harvesting cherry and my wife caught me making some juice. We have a lot of kids and grandkids, so let's make cherry juice. Frankly, in my opinion, this summer is dedicated to all the cherry, the sweetest and most beautiful thing that God has given this world, to this people. So I welcome all the cherries of this world, and I want them to be protected by God, for they are God's gift. The other thing I want to say is that when my colleague Risticevic mentioned the sea, I immediately thought of Montenegro, I thought of Greece, and I said, I didn't go to either Montenegro or Greece, but whenever I remember Greece, it associated me with one great man, one man, one man, one man, one of the people, one of the friends of the Serbian people, who unfortunately, ten days ago, retired. It associated me with Mikis Theodorakis, a man who had the courage, who at the time when these evildoers bombed us, when they destroyed us with their bombs and poor uranium, raised his voice in the protection of the Serb tribe, made a magnificent rally in Athens and sent a message to all of us who were here, in words -- we sing for Belgrade tonight. That's why I think all citizens of Belgrade, all Serbian citizens, wherever they are in this world, should be proud to look into the sky, pray for that great man and hope that he has left this earth's empire, move to heaven, that he is now a resident of celestial Serbia. As for the amendments, if it has already been accepted by the Government, I think it is too much to say that I accept that, because, quite normally, the amendments that the Government accepts are entered into the law without discussion and they will, for the joy and happiness of all consumers, protect their rights in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9043	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9044	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister with Associates, of course I must commend this extraordinary law and these extraordinary amendments that will protect consumers. However, I must again express my exceptional concern for consumers who use many services, these are dozens of Gilas companies, and "Multicoma" and "Darrekt Media" which are still operating here, he owns or co-owners, because they are known to be corruption firms. So, I'm also worried about the consumers of the Jilas farmer, who has a number of agricultural companies, and that's what he boasts. But who controls what the farmer Gilas produces? This concern is based on the fact that politician Gilas and, as we can see, businessman Gilas, among these media companies, is prone to extensive and invasive corruption and robbery, so I have reason to suspect that he is a farmer named Gilas. Simply, politician Gilas is poisoning the Serbian citizens' psyche, and I have reason to believe that farmer Gilas is probably poisoning and the bodies of Serbian citizens by selling them his agricultural products of dubious quality. I have to express extreme concern for the consumers of a lot of School companies, it's Gilas' company or vice versa. These are also dozens of companies in Serbia, like those mattresses, who owns and whose company they own. Of course, Solak is not a farmer, but he has millions of consumers who poison SBB, United Media, N1, Nova S and a number of other companies. Simply, the question is, how do we protect these consumers? Of course this law will contribute, but that's not enough. Consumers, of course, are protected by the state and otherwise, are protected by both the police and the Ministry of Interior, because there is crime. One case that came up and if I hadn't asked those questions before, I wouldn't be talking about this right now, and that case came up yesterday and today. Namely, I have been asking parliamentary questions about Jadranka Drinic, who is co-owner of the Gilas and Šolak companies, who has been inaccessible to our authorities for over two years. She is one of the suspects in the RTS robbery of 688 million dinars, and for nearly two and a half years she has proved inaccessible to our organs. It still now, as co-owner of Gilas and Šolak's companies, places some products here and there are consumers who buy these products. Whether it's through the media or otherwise, it's products. It turned out that, I was expressing concerns about whether Mrs. Drinic was alive, but yesterday she proved to be alive, and the day before today. In fact, she's selling an apartment on a Savaweave worth, you won't believe, 780,000 euros. I am concerned about the buyer of this apartment, since this apartment has been illegally acquired, and Mrs. Drinic is still not available to our organs. I will remind you, Jadranka Drinic's lawyer, Zdenko Tomanovic, said more than two years ago -- Jadranka Drinic has no reason not to answer the call from the authorities and prosecutors to testify as one of the suspects. After two years of what the lawyer said, esteemed Tomanovic, Jadranka Drinic did not show up but sell her apartment. That's very suspicious. Someone here will be damaged, at the very least, by this consumer who will buy her apartment. But fortunately, it is now the other part, the black part, the criminal part, but also we have consumers and consumers, the state has shown in the past that it protects even those consumers of psychoactive substances. So it's the fight against crime and drug dealers and protects, of course, and all the other citizens, fighting all these drug dealers over the past period, so the police have arrested producers and drug dealers, one of Gilas' drug dealers, that's Dabovic, his former brother-in-law, with 2.4kg of cocaine products. Thus, police arrested other Djilas drug dealer Bakic from Kursumija with as much as 66kg of products intended for consumers, and the product is marijuana, so drugs, and so police have very successfully arrested the marines dealer, the manufacturer who was preparing to sell 1.4kg of psychoactive substances, but also other products, illegal weapons and explosives. I have to congratulate the state here. Finally, I have one question to ask, as far as consumers are concerned, how are we going to protect the consumers of Gilas' toxic political products? That's a lot harder. It's out of the MUP's jurisdiction and out of the jurisdiction of this law, how we're going to protect these people. You know how we're gonna protect them? Next year, in 2022, in April, in the elections, we will protect the producers of these toxic products by cleaning these up at the junkyard of history in the elections. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9045	I thank Mr. Bakarec. Next up is Mr. Wolf Mircetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9046	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have amendments to a very important law. It's the Consumer Protection Act. The amendment I'm talking about has been filed by colleague Sandra Christmas. I think it is extremely important that this amendment is submitted, since it helps to make the law itself more in the spirit of the Serbian language. We have discussed this amendment on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and we have found that, as the chairman said, it is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. If we are talking about the consumer protection law itself, it is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to point out a few things. First of all, the register "Don't Call" is being introduced into the system and will contain phone numbers from consumers who don't want certain companies, companies harassing them, in the sense that someone is calling you and offering you a particular product. So whoever doesn't want to be called a team about it, he can leave his phone number to his provider. It will enter a base that will be further available, and then that phone will be out of reach. So in practice it looks like this. First, the person who doesn't want anyone to contact her delivers his phone number, fills in one form, delivers it to the operator. The second step is the operator and the phone number data is delivered to the regulatory body responsible for electronic communications in which this register is kept. Third, the regulatory body educates that list itself. Another important newspaper, which was discussed by colleagues in the plural, is the introduction of a pre-account, or budget for services that exceed 5,000 dinars. This means that today, or when we adopt this law, no one will be able to tell you that certain services cost for example 7,000 dinars, and that it turns out at the very end that it costs 20,000 and something, because some costs that were not planned have occurred. Given the proposed legislative solutions, consumers will know that they are safe on the market and that they exist, that this country protects them. If we have mechanisms and institutions that work properly, our citizens will feel safe. Thanks to the responsible policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, we can today boast that the average salary in March this year was 555 euros, and we expect that in January 2022, so soon, it will be 612 euros. This is in line with our "Serbia 20-25" plan, according to which the average salary should be 900 euros. Again, I have to ask one question - does anyone remember when Aleksandar Vukic became the prime minister of what the average salary was? At that time, the average salary was, and many times the colleagues talked about it, and we need to talk many times, it was 330 euros. We're talking now, this year we're talking about a minimum wage of as much as 300 euros. So today we live in a country that is progressing and that is successfully coping with all the challenges and crises that are coming to us. In the previous period, those who were on the first line of defense and those who are most grateful are just medical workers, and they found a way to thank and show not only thanks, but also to show one respect. Accordingly, I would point out several important data, which is that in March 2010, the nurse had an average salary of 30,159 dinars, in March of this year the average salary is 56,874 dinars. In March 2010, a specialist doctor had 62,763 dinars, while in March this year he has 111,191 dinar. A specialist doctor, but in the curvature system there are 182,000 dinars, while the nurse in the covid system has 79.278 dinars. So, in March 2021, a nurse in a covid system has a higher salary than a specialist doctor had in March 2010. That's what we're talking about today. We live in such a country today, living in a country that is progressing and living in a country that is therefore attractive to new investors. From 2013 to today, the inflow, i.e. the total amount of foreign direct investment, amounts to as much as 22 billion euros. In 2012, inflation was two digits, it was immediately reduced, it became one digit, and for the last eight years we kept it at some average stable level of about 2%. All of this also allows for the increase in wages and pensions and the creation of new jobs, the construction of new infrastructure, new roads, hospitals and for Serbia to grow and to advance and develop. Today, just today, President Aleksandar Vucic set the stone foundation for one of the most modern vaccine factories in this part of Europe. Finally, we have dared to show that we can do something and do something to which not only Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be proud, but the whole region, because we know, on the one hand, how important it is to develop Serbia, and on the other hand we know that it is important to develop a region, because a strong region means a strong Republic of Serbia. Unlike some of the previous times when state interests were in line with the interests of individuals, we today have a situation where those who manage the interests of Serbian citizens are on the hair. So we see that we have shown how we are doing and we see the fact that Serbia is going forward. This is what not only we see, but see the people and the people feel. In addition, it is what as representatives of the authorities and representatives of the SNS has bothered us more and more that in the coming period we are doing even stronger and even more. In the previous period, we worked hard to make Serbia's apologies, which was on its knees to create a strong Serbia, which represents an important factor, not only an economic factor, but an important factor of peace and stability in this part of Europe. Such an environment, that is, that is, Serbia attracts new investors and enables new job openings and improving the standard of living of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we will continue to work safely and responsibly in the coming period and to fight for Serbia to progress even more because we do not have another Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9047	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9048	Thank you, Chairman. This is one of the most important members of this law because so far, in practice when it comes to consumer protection, we have had a serious problem, and this is simply a lack of consumer information about procedures, procedures, ways of protecting its rights in case there is no relationship between what was offered to him and what was delivered to him, or how the apparatus is serviced that is incorrect, etc. Therefore, by introducing a legal provision and Article 12, which states that before the conclusion of the contract on the sale of goods or the provision of services to the consumer, the trader is obliged to make in a clear, comprehensible manner in the Serbian language or language of the national minority, and that, in accordance with the law, notify the consumer of all the characteristics of the goods, the business name, home number, address, seat, number of phones, selling price, payment method, the existence of legal liability due to the incompatibility of the goods or services offered to him and what is most important, the manner of advertising of the trader, with a special emphasis on the reception and way of handling of the trader in the advertising process. If something like that had been decided and clear in earlier provisions, let's just say it wouldn't have happened if one of our fellow citizens had broken off a new washing machine he bought in the Emezetti car, puts himself in the car, brought her to the company. There, in the Emezeta, no one simply found it, the manager did not find it appropriate after three hours of his persistent waiting to go out and explain the procedure and procedure to the man and to enable him to carry out the control, inspection and service of the device. Why am I saying this? If someone doesn't read or listen, dear citizens, what tomorrow's seller is obliged to make it clear to them, then they really have to bear responsibility for it. This removes the fact that unconscious merchants, other procurators under various contracts, hide behind the fact that everyone is obliged to inform themselves of their rights from the "Official Messenger", which, you will admit, simply in life practice is often not quite realistic, so that many customers were found simply by what they had to go through, and at times it looked like a goal to come to the realization of their rights during the guarantee. It is likely that this will open the space that then traders, especially if it is a larger technique, such as the washing machine in this case, to make sure that they provide transport, that they provide repairers to determine whether the machine is broken, is not corrupt and in a very short, responsible and serious way enable the consumer to get what he really wanted to buy. In this respect, the amendment, which is a respected colleague, Sandra Christmas, submitted and accepted, which refers to the fact that, in Article 7, paragraph 7, or point 7, of Article 1 of this Article 12, in practice, traders undertake to notify, when offering and selling technical goods and the availability of spare parts, as well as consumable material. Why am I saying this? We can get into a situation where there are spare parts, but so on. consumable material may, in the event that its availability, its sale is not provided, prevent the use of certain types of apparatus and so far we have had in practice the situation that traders simply hid behind a legal provision that was not clearly defined in the previous period. With this I believe that in many legal corners, the obligation and liability of traders is covered to mean, in addition to spare parts, components, technical services, consumer notification and availability, practically consumer material, as one of the essential items that can affect the ability to use the product that it has purchased. The seriousness and responsibility of this law is seen in the fact that it was clearly trying not to overstretched the law, because, if this happens, much more space opens up for the abuse of some segments that are not covered, but the acceptance of this term is a consumer material, which is legally very clear, and in practice, when it comes to trade, is defined, it is simply in an appropriate way that one cavity is fully covered by the ultimate objective of this law, which is the protection of consumers in every respect of even better and greater scope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9049	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9050	I thank the chairman. I would like to commend this law and this amendment, which has been submitted by a colleague, who is indeed in place, and the Government has adopted. I can tell you all about it, as my colleagues used to say before me and Mr. George and Professor. Ljubisha. All that comes into these shops, the malls, and as far as agricultural products are concerned, all that has to go through our hands, through the insolent hands of our peasants. In this context, we can say a lot of things that are important, that fight fruit, livestock, all the other kinds of agricultural production, all that's very important. We all know for a period behind us, perhaps 200, 300 or 500 years, that our peasant has defended and fed our country. That's why we're here and now and always talking about it, but we need to find a way to stimulate this agricultural agricultural production more, that these peasants who have their own production, and especially I'm talking about the undeveloped mountainous areas, from the area where I come from, that's where agriculture is in a very difficult state, God is given for livestock farming, but there can also be fruit growing. Let's say now, the production of plums, in some parts of our municipality, had a good generation, as well as in some territories around our municipality, the price was good, excellent, while the previous year was a bad price. So, what is important for all our agricultural producers to secure a safe purchase, to provide and secure placement through these production chains, so that our agricultural products can be sold there, because most importantly of all of this is produced by us in Serbia and there. It would also be good if our products went out of the country of Serbia. As for the particular fruit industry in that part, a large accent was also placed by the Ministry of Agriculture, a large number of our municipalities are engaged, for example from the municipality from which it comes, as well as the municipality of Književec, the surrounding municipality around Nis, there are very good producers, with there is room to invest. We need to provide all those things that are important to facilitate the production of our agricultural producers. When this is done and all of our demands on the Committee on Agriculture are realized, to ensure anti-building protection, to ensure good and safe placement, as well as protection through product insurance. This makes agricultural production safer. Through a programme provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to provide houses, properties in those environments, through the ministry that people who want to deal with agriculture, which are difficult in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotics, can buy houses, buy households, buy land in our municipalities. Believe me, as I hear an apartment here in Vracar is 780,000 euros, that apartment that sells there he can buy for sure not to say, one whole village, to provide for himself the opportunity to work. It would be good if households in our villages were worth as much as half of that apartment in Belgrade, but that's not the case. In our houses, it's worth a little bit, it's a small, low price of land, so we all have to work in that field, to provide as much security as we can for these agricultural producers. Tomorrow when they're consumers, when they go to those malls that they can buy their product that they can buy something for, is it a white technique or something. Believe me, people, our agricultural production is tough, but there's a chance, but there's a lot more to do with the accent on the mountainous mountainous areas of the undeveloped municipality. These people who remain there must be given greater attention and greater funding. Once again, great support and praise for this amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia is really working for the contribution of all of us, but we must give special attention to our producers living in these border areas and these villages.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9051	Thank you. Member of the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in fact, in the debate in principle, we have found that the law is good, that it is modern, that it removes many of the shortcomings that he had in the previous law because of the new ways in which trade is carried out. The fact that these claims were correct is the fact that only four amendments were submitted to the whole law and all four were accepted, which certainly says that the legislator, the ministry responsible for tourism affairs, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, were taken into account and that the MPs as persons discussing and discussing the law itself is what their position is and what possible faults of the law are. The law itself in Article 93 treats consumer protection in the field of tourism services. It's already been discussed in principle. A few days ago, certain controversys arose about certain tourist organizations, allegedly due to the Corona virus epidemic, failed to realize replacement tourist travels, or contracts that had been concluded before the pandemic was declared caused by the coronary virus and were required to delay the return of funds, to extend the time limit for the realization of such trips, or to give them money or to provide them with some favourable credits so that they could either return money or make those replacement travels. I believe that there are indeed a number of tourist agencies, i.e. the organizers of tourist travel justified the situation that they could not realize a certain number of replacement travels, but I am not sure that they are in most cases. I believe that in most tourist organizations they are, but I don't believe that most of the tourist arrangements that have been replaced, which have not been realised, have been justifiably unrealised. That's what I'm saying, I'd like the Ministry's representatives to tell me at some point what a replacement trip is? We had one regulation, the government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to help tourism organisations. On a proposal from the competent ministry, a regulation was made, the relations between the tourist agency, travellers, the rights of tourist agencies, the obligations of tourist agencies and the rights of travellers were regulated. The passenger, or the user, had no obligation, except to pay the contract price. What's a replacement trip? So everyone thinks that when someone says, "replacemental travel" means something similar to that given time, destination and price, and that there can be no more significant deviations than those three conditions. However, strange things happen in life. When the conditions for these replacement travel were met, some of the tourist agencies did not act in the spirit of a good businessman and gave their users adequate replacement travel. I'm allowed to bet, that it's these very tourist agencies that are now asking to extend their contracts, that is, the deadline for returning money, that the state gives them money or gives them more favourable loans. Those who behave in the spirit of a good business and responsible man have protected their users. What does it look like in life? Here's a letter I got from the citizens, as chairman of the Committee responsible for tourism affairs. The citizen claims that the same contract paid an amount of 84,430 dinars on the same day. Due to the inability of the travel organization caused by the pandemic of the virus, I received a month of April 2020 from the agency "Manga Trip Travel" doo Belgrade, a memo asking for my consent to realise my journey when it is possible by the same or some other trip from the organisers' offer, all within 18 months of the day of signing the said consent. By handling my desire for the trip to be my gift to my mother for her jubilee birthday, given that there was a higher power and that the organizer was unable to realize my journey, I did not ask for my money back, but I signed the offer of consent. During the signing, I also appreciated the fact that the sources of travel agencies' income in the world, as well as in Serbia, have been significantly reduced, and I felt that I should also contribute to the crisis they have been in. Given the portal, "Manga Trip Travel" doo Belgrade, I did not find in the offer a new trip to the destination by which I concluded the contract, and that there are no similar replacement trips by destination, duration of travel, price, I concluded that there is no fair substitute offer for the realization of the contracts that she concluded with "Manga Trip Travel". Regardless of the circumstances, and if I hadn't asked for the funds to return to me, that "Manga Trip Travel" agency in Belgrade used my funds for more than a year to cover its liquidity without any agency, the agency wants to earn even more by doubling prices, deadlines and travel volumes. At the very least, this behavior by the agency is not correct. For this reason, he asks that the money be returned or that it be given a replacement journey corresponding to the journey for which the user has concluded the contract. As an agreement from the Manga Trip Travel agency, it is informed that it can implement an arrangement on July 16th of northeastern Turkey, Istanbul - Kapadokija on September 6th and Istanbul - Kapadokija on October 4th. Now, what's the scam about? The party concluded a deal with the travel agency that should last four days. It paid total for all 715 euros. It is now a seven-day replacement trip, but per person 700 euros. So there was little "Manga Trip Travel" to use citizens' money for a year and more, to include the margin on the original journey, already wants to extend his journey and re-install the margin or to use its funds indefinitely for a long time, because now I see they're asking for a postponement of funds. Such agencies rose up a picture of Serbian tourist agencies. It's just one example of abuse of goodwill in the first place of the ministry, the government, the service user. You know what, the service user shouldn't be burdened with whether the travel agency has any problems in realising the original journey. Whether their inopartner accepts the obligation he received when money was paid to him, raises the question, though money has been paid. This should not be of interest to the user and the user should not suffer for it. It's part of the risk that a travel agency should bear, because it's she who performs the work, for the sake of good eyes, rather than make money, so she has to bear the risk. The user must not be damaged because he enters with a lot of confidence in bond relations and concludes the contract. That's why there's travel insurance. Then, above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the later users are abused in the most brutal way, so it's little for them, asking for a delay again, again, to seek some free funds. You know what? They're all affected by the coronary virus, all areas of the economy, there's no one who worked normally, there's no one who didn't have any major financial problems regardless, even though some people say that even trade was doing well, it's not exactly what many people say. It's not like that. You're always asking for some help from the state. I say, the state is for that to help, but don't use the state's help to be super rude. Come on, you guys, what are you trying to fool an ordinary citizen about? You have no right to do that. Those stories that if they don't get that deadline extended... In principle, I say, I don't mind that those who really couldn't make those trips really help them, but here I don't see any attempt, and those stories that will go bankrupt, please tell me, how much is it possible that if he paid towards the inopartner and didn't inopartner would carry out his obligation, that he would allow himself to go into bankruptcy for a paid trip that he didn't use and charge? No way. These are pure tricks to try to get cheap funds back as easy as possible. It is for the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to set criteria and assess whether it is really necessary to provide them with some funds and were more favourable loans. I don't know how, but it's up to you. But to extend the deadline and that they continue to retain the resources of our citizens without their consent, that is no longer possible. Let them forget that. Because those who turned out to be fair won't have any problems, and those who wanted to earn even more by abuse of trust and good will, if they have problems. And for them, I don't really care about anything, and it's time for us to once, with such a practice on some examples, to show that we can't do it anymore. The more we show it, the less and less it will be in real life.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9053	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9054	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we discussed the proposal for a consumer protection law in principle, and now we are also discussing in particular, and this is an indication that we are dealing thoroughly with the observed shortcomings that have arisen, given that the law has not been amended since 2014, but that we also agree with the provisions of the European directives. Many changes have been made in relation to the period of law enforcement. What is most important for consumers is that the standard of living has certainly increased by then and that the coverage of the minimum consumer basket is 81.5% today. Only since 2017, after a series of fiscal consolidation measures, the minimum profit has increased by 52%, and our GDP growth has been 17.3% in that period, and this is an indication that the minimum profit is growing three times faster than GDP. Although it has been announced that the minimum wage now amounts to 32,022 dinars, the increase is to over 35,000 dinars, and citizens should be calm because it will not affect the employment rate. According to the Finance Minister's estimates, by 2023/2024, the consumer basket will be fully covered, and this will be achieved by opening new jobs, i.e. by opening factories. As one of the most important news today is the setting of a stone foundation for the production of the Chinese company Sinofarm vaccine, a factory where vaccines will be produced in the coming period, and this is the joint investment of Serbia, China and the United Arab Emirates. This is news that is extremely important not only for Serbia, but for the whole region. Serbia is among the first countries to have all vaccines available to citizens, and now it is among the first to produce vaccines. Unfortunately, even if we were initially among the leading countries by the number of vaccines, today this is not the case, so I would use this opportunity to call again all citizens who are not vaccinated to do so, and here I think of young people most, because among them is the smallest percentage of vaccines, given that the number of people infected and how they grow from day to day, and hence the number of deaths and the number of those on the respirator. Serbia has made huge economic progress, and today, when setting up a cornerstone together with partners from the United Arab Emirates, the president also reminded himself of watching with the same partners, the model "Begrada na Voda". We see that with years of our dreams, ideas and how they become reality, so as "Belgrade on Water" was built, and as much has been achieved in the previous period in Serbia, this vaccine factory will be completed in the first quarter of the following year, which will produce as many as three million doses of vaccines per month. Although our country was facing a full financial collapse after 2012 we managed to put the economy on stable feet and this best shows that in July our average salary in Serbia amounted to over 65,000 dinars, and our goal by the end of 2025 is that the average salary in Serbia is 900 euros, which is defined by the programme "Serbia 2025", and we see that it is largely moving towards it. We are absolute leaders in the region and per inflow of foreign direct investment, which in the first seven months of this year amounted to two billion 72m euros, which is as much as 30% more than in the same period by 2020. Today, factories are opened, people are employed, citizens feel safe compared to the period until 2020, when we all lived in the uncertainty of which factory the next morning a lock will be placed and whether parents will have for breakfast their children. It's the ones who led us to the brink of bankruptcy today that are trying to deceive the citizens and degrade our economic successes. They are precisely dealing with the permanent threat to the president and his family by offering no plan and programme to the citizens for a better future. That is why citizens give their court in the elections, the people are supporting people who are fighting for Serbia, not people who are fighting for millions in their White World accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9055	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9056	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens, respected fellow MPs, saying the other day about this rather broad and extensive legislative proposal, which is something new in Serbian legislation, I said it itself regulates the relationship between supply and demand in the Republic of Serbia's market. It regulates the position of consumers quite well, its fundamental rights, regulates even supervision and foresees judicial, or non-judicial proceedings in the case of disputes, defining and informing consumers themselves and many important things and a completely new legislative proposal in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. However, in this same principle debate, I noted that this legal solution concerns not only those consumers within the Republic of Serbia, but rather given the increasing momentum of regional integration initiatives. First of all, I am referring to the Open Balkans initiative, until recently it was called "mini Schengen", which came from the Serbian president as some new political proposal for all people living in the Balkans today and located outside the EU's borders. Such a regional political initiative is experiencing more and more support in the region's very peoples, but the fact is also increasingly at important international addresses. Today, the president in Belgrade welcomed by Christian Schmidt, who was recently named by a majority of the Peace Implementation Council countries in BiH as the international community's top representative in BiH. What happened today in Belgrade is Schmidt's support for the public's regional integration processes. He stressed that it is important that BiH also become part of these integrated, regional processes, which, as a proposal, start with the Serbian president. This visit today in Belgrade also speaks of many more things, with Mr Schmidt stressing Serbia's importance as one, and he said that publicly, as one of the most important countries and region, but this visit showed the importance of the political figure and the most important political figure today in the Balkans, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. What I would particularly like to stress is the concern of the Serbian president about Republika Srpska and about every man in the Republika Srpska Federation of BiH, with full respect for international law, but also the integrity of BiH itself. In addition to this political concern for each of our men, the note and that concern regarding the lives of each of our people, their standard of living, and in particular the concern of the infrastructure equipment of Republika Srpska and even some parts of the Federation of BiH where our people live. However, dear colleagues, do you remember these concerns by 2012, or 2014, if you remember respected colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which consisted of these concerns until that time when the authorities were doing those who today call themselves the opposition in the Republic of Serbia. While Tadic, Jeremic, Djilas, remember how the concerns and co-operation with our people in Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina were going, and if you will, in other parts of the region. Well, I'll remind you. She went through theatre hugs with some regional leaders and ended their economic concerns, and the other part of co-operation with the citizens went by having people from Republika Srpska, those who gave their most important years of life for this country, catching in Serbia as wild beasts and sending in casamats around the world. Well, even if it was an international commitment, it wasn't over. The tragedy is greater by the fact that the then leaders of Serbia, today's former government, have solemnly declared it to Serbia and celebrated it until nightfall. These are the people who today form the former government and part of the opposition in the Republic of Serbia. I'm telling you this so you can make a comparison. With what the Serbian president is doing today on a political, economic, economic and other agenda when it comes to Republika Srpska, and today it is just a small paradigm of that and what these people did until 2012 and 2014. That's why, and what this is, is a legal solution, it concerns these people. As Serbia progresses in each, and in political, economic, economic and other terms, the number of consumers will increase, and these consumers will be those who come from the region, and thus the importance of this legal solution gets even more in importance. We will certainly support this legal solution as MPs, but more importantly, we will support the president of the state in the policies it implements today and in recent years when it comes to our people in the Republic of Serbia and the region in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9057	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Professor Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9058	Dear colleagues and colleagues, well the predecessors have concluded that these amendments are welcome, that the law is quite correct and ultimately all the laws are being made, or should be dealt with, in a way that allows citizens to have easier and better lives and I believe that the tendency of both this law and all other laws has gone in that direction, but we have to admit that the realisation of this law is affecting something else, and that is moral, on the other hand, the market. A colleague mentioned the impact of the market a moment ago, and here's how they're affecting it. A colleague, Arsic, spoke of the immorality of a tourist agency. In the principle debate, I was also talking about a speculative business of banks, about their thieving, about crime, about a housing company called "Shumatovačka" and then I heard from a lot of citizens who were grateful to me for mentioning it and their marifettelukas, a hostel, and among other things one of the citizens tells me to mention Belgrade's heat. What are the Belgrade heats doing? They have two types of users. I guess one of the users is the ones who pay for that heating all year round, and the other are paying for some modern model, for something that's good, quality, in the citizens' interest, as they say, because they pay for how much heat they spend, and I think it's correct, well, fine, so that one part of the year they pay, one doesn't pay. But what's going on here? There are always those who are immoral, who are not guided by ethical principles and find some moduso to skin these consumers, citizens, customers just like the banks did, as I mentioned. Here's what the heat is doing. They say they set up a heating bill, people pay for it, and then they get a bill from some other imaginary company that most likely those in the heat invented, and that company charges them with a reading of energy consumption. It's the same or similar as the ones I mentioned, that cooperative, I don't know who else MTS, etc., charge you for exposing invoices. That's how they got along, and they put another load on the back of the consumer. Whether it's a consumer's obligation, no, it's an obligation by the power plant, heat to read how much you spend, and to charge you for it. But it's not a small figure, I think they pay about 1,000 and some dinars a month, and it has to get in the way. Tom and this law with good intentions is working and trying to do, but it's not good to just pass that law. We need someone to follow that law, follow what's on the market, we're all witnesses, and we all see that the banks in the last half year, or a year or more, have greatly increased the fees for this and that, billing. What kind of maintenance do they have on account if I don't spend anything? It's my account, but then they invent that fixed compensation of 300,400,500 and more dinars a month, and I ask them, tell me what kind of maintenance it is and what you did to that account, did you damage his valves, did you change the oil, what did you do? They don't do anything, but they're telling you how much they want to do, now they've done the same thing, you've got a favor called, a war sale, no interest, and normally, you go to the store, you buy a product, you give a card, and it's at 3,4,5, 10, 12, it doesn't matter how much war. Now they've come to mind, they can't take your interest, because it's interest-free, but that's why they say, for every war, 50 dinars, 100 dinars. And the worst part is, they don't have any character at all, if they had said since September 1st, or any October, the deadline, it's going to start. No, now they charge you for the contracts that you concluded and three months ago, five months ago, two, it doesn't matter. This has to be found by someone who's going to take care of it, and it's always written in the paper. That's what citizens, or users, are about, but I don't know who's supposed to do it, but here's let them hear the complaints of the citizens I'm putting in place here for you, so let them do it the way they should, and we all talk about how they're trying to do it, and we're trying to do it in the interests of citizens, but also in the interests of Serbia, but some people are using it, and that's how they get themselves a huge material gain. Here, look, that purchase on the wars, at least, I say at least, and there's definitely more, a million wars, there's a million users, and imagine when every bank collects 50 dinars, that's 50 million and it's not small, because it's a hoistupleraj, it's a thief, that's what a colleague Arsic said, illegal business. On the other hand, how does the market affect it? Very well, said counterpart Vuk, and Komlenski talked about it, a very good example, even the Komlen example of the MP who discussed, indeed the amendment and the amendment, and the whole discussion was in line with the Rules of Procedure. Let's say this example, all the services that these masters, contractors and over 5,000 dinars are going to have to make that contract, pre-calculation, etc. What are we gonna do when the market is against us? A simple and simple example, and I assume that each of us has come into a situation that needs a master's service, is the electrician, the plumber, are the builders, this or that, and who in these times, when is the shortage of that working profile, that master's? Did you try this summer, did you try three, four months ago to hire someone to do electricity for you, to hire a builder, a moth, a ceramic? I don't think anyone who's tried that has done it because there's a lack of that workforce. By the way, with the creation of these laws, we have to take care of education and create these missing personnel. We'll get into a situation where we won't be able to find a master in these areas. We're free of all the laws that we've passed, which they say, so much will be limited, I don't know, over that must be a contract. Well, who's gonna tell me... No one's going to tell me, but who's going to stop every one of those users from chasing that master and paying him more and I don't even know how much more to finish the job? If you remember and follow, these masters' journals were 20, 30 euros. Now you'll find it hard to find masters under 50 euros. That's what we have to take care of. So, not only do we adopt and propose good and quality laws, but we also take care of whether they will be able to implement them in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9059	Thank you. By amendment, MP Tomislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9060	Thanks, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to remind you of an event from 13 years ago, and that's what happened when the SNS was formed. Why is this event important? Not only for those of us who are members and SNS officials, but for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, because at that moment we wanted to offer a new political organisation in Serbia and when we promoted our programme as a basic goal, we made sure that we took care of an ordinary citizen, an ordinary man. Aware of the situation that Serbia was going through and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period, SNS was created as one political idea precisely with one very important goal, which is to protect the interests of an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen. We have implemented this policy in action, taking care of every man, leading to his economic, social, and other interests. This policy is being given year by year, from cycle to cycle, to increasing support from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and it is being implemented through the implementation of this law, because, above all, it takes care of consumer protection, to protect every man who is in Serbia. By taking over power, we have taken responsibility for the quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their political, religious, national or any other kind of belonging. Was that before 2012? Who took care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of our people who lived outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia? Who took care of the common man? I'm sure the government at the time isn't. I must remind you that between 2000 and 2012, we lost more than 200,000 jobs, that the Dossow government destroyed everything it touched, that the factories, the plants, where our country's army was systematically destroyed. The institutions have been destroyed. In Sremska Mitrovica, in the city from which I come, over three years more than 4,000 people lost their jobs. Then did anyone talk about consumers? Did he even think about citizens, ordinary people? Of course not. Everyone took care of getting along, finding a new job to survive. As the years pass, as SNS, along with its coalition partners, strengthens Serbia, reduces unemployment, strengthens institutions, of course, come in line with such laws that should contribute to the better and better quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to take care of the ordinary man, the citizen of the Republic of Serbia. This isn't just gonna mean to us living in the space of our country. Here, from year to year, the number of people who come to Serbia who visit our country is increasing. This year, for the first nine months, nearly 20 million tourists in transit have crossed the roads of the Republic of Serbia. Well, of course this law and these changes we make through the amendments will also affect the quality of their stay in our country and their safety. Through these legal solutions, through one serious approach, through a policy that takes care of ordinary people, we raise the quality of life to the Republic of Serbia and we take care of every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9061	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski to article 114. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9062	Thank you, Chairman. As I said in my previous statement on the amendment of my colleague Sandra Christmas, it is obvious that a lot of effort has been made in this law, to make it clearer, more precise and more specific and in this sense this correction that I have proposed, because the concept of this law has not defined inevitable and extraordinary circumstances as the basis for the release of liability for damages, as envisaged. The fact is that the higher power in the Law on Liabilities is not defined until the end, which is all the circumstances covered, but still, given the existence of this term, the concept, the long-term case law, which has practically determined what everything can mean under the fact of more force and what the consequences of more force are, whether they release responsibility or provide the possibility to change the contractual obligations themselves, I believe that accepting this amendment is merely a proof of one really great desire for the law to be as precise and complete as possible and that it can be applied with certainty in practice. Besides what I did, I just want to add one more thing. Indeed, I was reminded by my colleague Stojmirovic, which is that such a good law, as this one is written, should probably be made a law that protects us as consumers of banking services, to be very specific. So that I don't go too far all the time I have here, I'll say it very briefly. In fact, this even concerns me personally, but also many Serbian citizens. Currently, I am very angry and dissatisfied as a beneficiary of the “Cretrease Banka” service, because I was sold “Raifeisen Banka” and not only myself, but all users of the “Credit Agricole Banka” service and I argue that it would seriously consider whether such transactions could be conducted without the consent of bank users. Why? By receiving our profits in Credit Agricole, by fulfilling my obligations, as well as probably tens of thousands of other users of their services, some management of Credit Agricole Banka has achieved a large sales price. In addition to his own network, he sold all his customers "Raifeisen Bank", forced me to force all other users who did not want to be users of Raiffeisen Bank services to harass and abuse themselves and seek a new and other bank. For this reason, here, although the subject is not directly related to this, I would really like the NBS and its regulatory bodies not to approve the conclusion of this contract and simply to be able to do so with this obscenity of the banking system, which calls it a build-up of services, and in fact by creating a monopoly, which is one of the things that this Consumer Protection Act should create, is seriously dealing with these transactions under a much larger scale and much more serious consideration, because I'm afraid this is how we're going to become slaves to the banking system and to a very narrow circle of banks, and we know that more banks with Serbian capital and ownership are almost and we don't have, except one, as far as I know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9063	Anyone else want a word? The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9064	The President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People, I thank you. First of all, I would like to thank, on behalf of the restoring ministry as a promoter, for the constructive debate we had in relation to the Consumer Protection Law proposal. I am convinced that the amendments proposed by the MPs will also contribute to the improvement of the legislative framework when I talk about the protection of consumer rights in the Republic of Serbia and further improvement and harmonisation with EU regulations and directives. The new law, as the MPs found in their discussions, has brought in numerous newspapers, the most significant of which are, above all, some new mechanisms for protecting consumer rights and further improving existing mechanisms. This is a law which was first and foremost developed on the basis of an analysis of the effects of the current law adopted in 2014 and which was already in line with the EU regulation, it is now being further improved and I must point out once again that the paper relating to extrajudicial alignment, the introduction of the register "Don't Call", and the fact that we are introducing infringement orders or mandates as a single repressive vision, but also one, we hope, an effective form of protection of consumer rights, in addition, a newspaper such as the introduction of a precalculation or budget for the implementation of repairs of more than 5,000 dinars and a number of newspapers and in the area of consumer rights when we talk about the tourism sector, I am sure that not only will improve consumer rights in our country but also strengthen our traders to yet develop a competitive and yet mutually correct relationship with consumers. I must point out that the debate held in parliament has contributed to further improving the law itself, and in this sense we are particularly grateful for the amendments proposed and which will certainly further clarify certain members of the law, to clarify, so that there is no misunderstanding and different interpretation of certain members of the law. In this regard, an important and constructive debate was held in parliament. The government of the Republic of Serbia headed by the prime minister and the resolution ministry and in the previous composition of the ministry has done a lot to protect consumer rights, and especially now with this step in the regulatory and legislative framework that we are making, we believe that we will absolutely comply with the best practice that exists not only in EU member states, but also in global frameworks, and that we will have much more favourable, above all, conditions for protecting consumer rights, but also that traders in a certain way will be able to improve their commercial practice and bring it into line with the best, to say, the currents that this practice in the EU. Once again, on behalf of the resolution ministry, I would like to thank you for the constructive debate and for the support that the MPs have provided this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9065	I thank the minister. Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? No, I don't. In that case, since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. Now I'm setting a brief 15-minute break, and then we'll gather to vote. Thank you, everyone who participated in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-09-0.u9066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby set Thursday's Rules of Procedure, 9 September 2021, starting at 17.20 p.m. as a day for voting on the agendas of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 168 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Consumers I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's Proposal in principle, and since all amendments submitted have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote a bill on consumer protection, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a consumer protection law. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement, paragraphs 2 to 7 of the agenda, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Point two of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Point three of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment and conditions of the activities of cultural and information centres, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 171, two voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Point four of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 2070 (2020) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for Project Loan - Student Apartment, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 173, for – 171, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Point five of the agenda. I put the motion for a bill to confirm the amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Point six of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 171, two voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Point seven of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on visa waiver for their citizens, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 172, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on decision-making proposals, and before moving to decision-making, I remind you that according to Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Point eight of the agenda. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the Vice-Government of the National Bank of Serbia, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Allow me to congratulate Dr Ani Ivkovic, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, on the election of Vice Governor of the National Bank of Serbia and to wish her much success in her work. Point nine of the agenda. I put to the vote The motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Point ten of the agenda. I put to the vote The motion for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted a review and a decision on all the points of the agenda of this session, and before I conclude, I just want to remind you that I have scheduled for tomorrow, Friday, September 10th, starting at 10.00 p.m., the 12th extraordinary National Assembly meeting with three agenda points. Consistent with Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you.
