ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 151 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 189 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2834	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, honourable Vice President, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I want to begin by commending the country, to highlight the contribution of the president of the State, the Prime Minister, of all relevant ministries to the fight against crime and corruption, to the results shown. But what I am primarily a citizen, and then a MP, is particularly happy is that we have entered the core, in my opinion, of the problems, to find these rotten apples, i.e. Associates within the system who support organised crime, police officers, prosecutors, doctors, etc., who give them alibis, excuses. With this, my question goes, which will be addressed to the Ministry of Health – what will the Ministry of Health take against those responsible at the General Hospital in Novi Pazar who falsified the injuries and health conditions of criminals who attacked the civil activist Irfan Ugljanin in broad daylight and inflicted physical injuries on him? On what grounds did these people spend the night at the hospital? What actually happened? Irfan Ugljanin is a civil activist or what they would tell me – a alarmer, a man who, through the media, through social networks, points to problems in society and gives concrete evidence of crime and corruption and the state's power in Novi Pazar with organized crime, in broad daylight, while in a cafe he drank drinks, people came to him and inflicted physical injuries on him. These people, as far as I have information, have received medical records from the head of the medical center that they are actually injured. What they didn't know was that the surveillance cameras show the whole incident. If it wasn't for surveillance cameras, and we don't have the media now who carry it and this Assembly, everything would have turned out to be like that famous sentence by Ilija Cvorovic -- she'll forgive you, Đura, for beating you. We have repeatedly pointed out the situation at the health center, that we have abuses, irregularities, unscrupulousness, clientism and various other interferences. The culmination of such a relationship in the summer of 2020, in the course of the second wave of the pandemic of the coronary virus, when the citizens of the patients were left to themselves, when the best doctors, doctors, experts, were the victim of the mobbing and instead of facing that challenge, they were replaced and moved from work. For 15 years at the head of this medical facility, two men have been replaced who are closer to relatives. For nothing, we separate the money, the free state invests, we donate the respirators if we don't have personnel and people who can do it in the work and that really citizens and citizens in Novi Pazar, as well as citizens and citizens in Sandzak feel what better primary health care means. Of course, the human factor is crucial. These people who ran this facility for 15 years must go. The case of Irfan Ugljanin, a case of brutal abuse when doctors give justification to criminals must be a stroke that has spilled a glass and I expect the rest of the ministry to do here in the spirit of this policy of uncompromising fight against crime and corruption, to suspend the responsible, punish, implement the whole procedure and to bring people to the head of the health center of integrity, professional reputation, people who can deal with this challenge. I'm asked by the parents of the children who graduated from the High School of Medicine to say that the children of the New Market who graduated from the High School of Medicine can't get a job, and that children who have diplomas from other municipalities, suspicious diplomas in some evening schools can get a job and I expect the Ministry of Health to be examined. There is no ultimate stability and prosperity of the economic New Market until we break the gap between crime and local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2835	Thank you. MP Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2836	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, good afternoon, myrdite. Today I decided to speak my question, which I will ask Prime Minister Ani Brnabic in Albanian, in my native language. I'm a little late to report, and that's why there's no simultaneous translation, but I'm going to translate my text during the day and give it to the Secretariat of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2837	I thank the People's Parliament. Thank you for saying that. Of course, the MP who is a member of the national minority has the right to speak and to submit written documents in the work of the National Assembly, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure, in his own language. The only thing that's a request is for it to be announced so that we can engage, so that we can be prepared translators. That's why we don't have a ready translator at this point. So to avoid that possibility, I'm just distracting you that in the next period you have that in mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2838	Since there are no minority members, only two translators, as far as I can see, one for Hungarian, one for Albanian, the Assembly should consider it to be permanent. (The National MP speaks in his native language. )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2839	I would ask you only for silence while the MP speaks. (The National MP speaks in his native language. ) I think I made myself clear when I said I asked, I didn't ask, I said in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Code of Conduct. As long as the People's Messenger speaks, please do not interfere with his exposure. Here you go. (The National MP speaks in his native language. (Jorge Komlenski: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2842	I haven't run out, I've had a few incursions and I'm not sorry they don't understand me in Albanian, I'm sorry they don't understand me in Serbian when I'm talking, and I speak well. (The National MP speaks in his native language. )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2843	Thank you. The Messenger of the people, Tom Phil, tells them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2844	The questions I want to ask refer to the minister of justice. Not only the SPS MPs, I guess we're all interested in independent, but that's why the effective judiciary is here. Two questions I have are about the government. The Serbian government has handed over to us to resolve issues in the Constitution, changes to provisions that would lead to an independent judiciary. Since I am also a lawyer for being an MP, we believe it is necessary for the Minister who has given a statement that he will consult with prosecutors and judges on this matter, to add to it and lawyers, because lawyers are asking that the Constitution definitely discuss that the judiciary as part of the judiciary is independent and independent service of providing legal assistance governed by the law. That way we become a part of where we should be, Chapter 23, not a service on the market, as Sinisha Mali seemed to say. What I'm trying to say is the matter of the efficiency of the judiciary. We need an independent judiciary, but we need it effectively. We are aware that there are many burdened courts, especially in criminal proceedings. That is why we have proposed and I propose and I now propose to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure and the question I am asking the Minister of Justice - whether he intends to present before us during the session of this Assembly the amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure which will speed up the judiciary, at least in criminal proceedings, so that for example we have confirmation of the indictment and it is formally done. The D.A. submits charges, these receipts, and then what happens? Unnecessary trials are being held, and then these trials, followed by a lot of halabuka in the media, end with liberating verdicts. Then we all pay that man the damages. There is one rule in Croatia in the West. When the indictment is filed, a hearing should be held on the hearing at which the prosecutor, the defence and the judge will be held, and when arguments for and against are brought and sufficient evidence is found to have been given by the prosecutor, then the court bears responsibility for the further. Like this, it's formally done and we have a lot of acquittals, too. Exactly because of the prosecution's hasty and the police. The other thing that can speed it up is to order all the criminal trials to be followed in tone, because it speeds up amazing. Instead of entering the record, and then having foreign objections to the record, so what he said, so as the Special Court does, so should be done in all or at least more serious cases, where the sentence is more than five or ten years old. The third thing I've been trying to do for 30 years to convince people is that the U.K.P.P.D., the D.A.'s office, should not be in the D.A.'s office, but should be at the D.A.'s office, because there will be no correspondence between the police and the D.A.'s office, to carry out a prosecution investigation until the end, to get the prosecutor to talk to the cops he says here and like, do this, do this, because he has a responsibility. It's something that's the key question of us moving away from this thing that's happening and that every judge will work three times faster if these two proposals are adopted first. Thank you very much, and I apologize for 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2845	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2846	I have an extremely important question, much more important than some of the others I have asked. I request a notice from the Ministry of the Interior and the specifically respected Minister Alexander Vulin. Is it possible that the Belivuk mafia clan, the military wing of the critical mafia, has been threatening President Vukic and his family for years? Is it possible that the Belivuk mafia clan was preparing an assassination of President Vukic on the orders of his political wing? In the hideouts of the Belivuk mafia clan, I will remind you, two sniper rifles have been found. All this is too much like the assassination carried out on Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic in 2002. Let's remember the weapon found in the Lambs near Father Alexander Vukic's house. Let's remember the attempted murder of President Vukic in Srebrenica. We remember the sniper headlines and the target of President Vukic in "NIN", "Today" and other Gilas media. Let us remember how Gilas and Bratija have been preparing the ground since 2018, when they start talking about Vučić's fascism, and what it is, rather than preparing the terrain. We remember the many threats, the murders of Vukic and the members of his family. We remember the great threats of the Jilassians, the prominent, allegedly public figures, who have been calling for three years for the violent change of government in the blood on the street. Is it just by chance that on February 2nd, Gilas launched a thesis on neo-fascism, which they have been launching for three years, but then launched and shamelessly accused Vukic of introducing some kind of, for nine years, neo-fascism into Serbia? I mean, aside from what he's accused and 30 Western states of being unfascist as many as 10 years supporting that alleged neo-fascism. So, I'm going to have to quote this Gilas crap, he says -- Western Europe and America have been directly supporting Vukic for nine years now in a project to introduce a neo-fascist system into Serbia. So, is Gilas, is he, is that a very important question, is it the head of the orderers and the financing of the prepared assassination of President Vukic? Is Gilas's SP party political wings the mob? We only remember the links between Djilas and Marinika Tepic to Koban Zivka with criminals Vlada Japanc, Novak Filipovic, Milutin Bakic and Milan Dabovic. When he says for three years that Vukic is a fascist and a criminal, that his family's members are involved in crime, when he threatens to liquidate and hang them, when he dehumanizes them and demonizes them for years, then he prepares the ground for the assassination that was to be carried out by the Belivuk mob group on the day of the discovery of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, no less than the head of the criminal police administration. So, I ask the esteemed Minister Vulin, is it possible that there are orders and funding of the prepared assassination of President Vukic? Is it possible that there are assassins, and in a criminal sense possible incentives and helpers? Is it possible to determine the political background for the assassination of Vukic? Is it possible to determine who in the country and abroad had the political and financial interest to kill President Vukic? When I say in the country, then I mean the false structures of the state of Kosovo. Another, since I mentioned the charge of neo-fascism, I ask the foreign ministry, the esteemed Minister Selakovic, for what could be the consequences of such a statement by Gilas at the expense of the United States and the EU? So the man wants to fight us with the whole world. When the self-appointed head of the opposition, i.e. the head of the defeated former regime accused 30 Western states of being unfascist, what kind of consequences, so the names insulted the president of France, Makron, of supporting neo-fascism in that act and of treading, listen, the fundamental values of France. It is absolutely painful that Gilas is accusing anyone, anyone, of neofascism when he is known as someone who has driven Fascist methods out of the home of tens of thousands of Roma, has leveled their houses with land, and then put them in containers that he has placed in the woods on the edge of Belgrade. I'm gonna get this over with. So, it's sick that whoever's been called a chitler at the time is accusing anyone of neo-fascism. To paraphrasise for the end of the great poet Vladislav Petkovic Dis, who just as if he had written about Gilas in his cult song "Our Days" – he stole all the temples and chivotes, mocked all the virtues and honesty, humiliated all the graves and lives, dirtyed both the moats and the baptism, stole all the temples and the lives. We will defend both Vukic and Serbia. Thank you, Serbia has lived.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2847	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Đuro Peric and Ugljesa Markovic. Dear People's MPs, you have been delivered the minutes of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, held on 26th, 27th and 28th January 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 192, for – 178, did not vote – 14. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 237 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a certain agenda retained in that request. For the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Social Card Act, 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto on co-operation in the field of defence, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating migrant smuggling, 4. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 2 paragraph 1 point 3 of the Corruption Prevention Act, 5. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 64(1) The law on higher education education. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2, 177 and 195, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1st Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto on Co-operation in Defence and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Co-operation in the area of combating migrant smuggling; 2nd Joint Principles on Points 4 and 5, i.e. Proposals for authentic interpretation of the provisions of the two laws. Does MP Martinovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 194, for – 185, did not vote - nine. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we're moving to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings of Prof. Dr. Daria Kisić Tepavcevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Dr. Biljana Zekavica, Deputy Minister for Labour, Employment, Boraric and Social Affairs, Vesna Mirosavljevic, Head of the Department for Systemic Affairs, Standard and Legal Affairs in the field of Social Protection at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and Predrag Simović, Special Advisor of the Minister. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to welcome Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic, as this is her first address in the interpretation of the law in the National Assembly. Of course, because this bill is of paramount importance for the state of Serbia as a whole, because the establishment of a social map introduces a unique and centralised record that serves to determine the facts necessary for the achievement of rights and services in the field of social protection and fairer distribution of social assistance. I would remind Serbia under the Constitution is both a legal state and a state of social justice. In accordance with Article 157(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation shall be as follows: Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a principled search on the proposal for a social card bill. Proposer representative Prof. Dr. Daria Kisić Tepavčević, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2848	Dear Presidential National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am extremely pleased to present today the proposal for a bill on the social map that we have been waiting for so long. What exactly are social cards? We can divide social sector rights into three large groups. These are social protection rights, family and children's protection and martial law. It's a few dozen rights used by several hundred thousand users. For example, these are rights for financial social assistance, second-party assistance and care, special cash compensation, housing in social protection institutions and family accommodation, child support, parental allowance, maternity benefits, regressing the cost of living in pre-school institutions, then, as many as 25 different rights from the domain of martial law. So we're looking at how large a number of rights are and how many potential users of these rights. The budget funds allocated to social protection, which our country is singleing out, are huge. For example, for this year, our country's budget envisions an allocation of 106 billion dinars for this purpose. However, these funds, however large and as much as our country thinks of the socially most vulnerable categories of people, are still limited in our country as well as in most other countries, given that a large number of potential users. Just in this situation, when financial resources are limited, priority needs to be taken into account in order to just provide assistance to those who need it most. Just to be able to define priorities and to be able to run an adequate social policy, it is a necessary condition to have data on the socioeconomic status of individuals. How will that help us social maps? Social maps are data on the socio-economic status of citizens. That's some simple definition. The question is, where are these data, what are the data that categorize the socio-economic status of citizens? Data are found in different sources. First of all, they are located in the interior resources of the ministry, but also in sources of public administration. So we have three internally large sources, bases, and we have even eight external sources that contain data that are essential for defining the socioeconomic status of an individual. How do the data get into the interior systems of the ministry? So we had three major electronic systems before, one that applies individually to social protection, one that applies to family and childcare and one that applies to martial law. What's the current state, no social card system? All these internal data in three of these large bases are mutually separate, they technically do not communicate with each other and there is no possibility of knowing reliably which rights and services and social protection are used by one person. So there's no cross-referencing and no aggregate data can be obtained. Also, since each base here has functioned for itself, there was no possibility of identifying whether the relevant information that was of interest in the exercise of rights has changed in the meantime. Also, there was no communication, no information connection to external systems and records containing the necessary data defining the socio-economic status of the individual. Given all these facts, it is clear that there was no single aggregate central component based on which we could accurately assess the socioeconomic status of individuals in our country and therefore there was no such basis and a real framework for the creation of social policies, which would be directed precisely towards those who needed this assistance. It is precisely the objective of establishing a social card register that there is one unique and centralized record in electronic form that combines all these data, which are accurate, reliable and that are restored in real time, not only for potential users, but also related persons. This allows all those in such a position to process data, to be able to identify quickly and efficiently those in need. In fact, it is one unique register of the socio-economic status of citizens and other categories of population with adequate rights in the social sector. It is very important to stress that it is not a register of all citizens, or all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although it would be ideal for the state to have information at all times on the socio-economic status of all citizens. However, given the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, above all because of human rights and freedoms, the most comprehensive way was to include those who are already users of social protection services or were users of social protection services or had once submitted a request for one of these aids, but were rejected. So, in this register, there will be those persons above all who, at least once, on any basis, whether they have exercised rights or not, have submitted a request for the exercise of some of these rights. So, the intensity of creating one of these living bases that detects all real-time changes is primarily proactive. It is proactive that the state and the system react in time, to identify the people who need the help most, especially towards socially vulnerable and vulnerable groups, where children and young people, people over 65 years old, people with disabilities, people with mental disorders, then single parents, unemployed persons and other categories of socially endangered whose monthly incomes are below the appropriate level. Also, it is very important here that we can also identify the persons who have submitted requests and have been rejected, but in the meantime there has been a change in data and they meet the conditions for the exercise of rights, which will automatically be registered in the social map. Also, according to existing rights users in the segment of exercising another right. So we have a user who's exercising one kind of right, but based on the data from the social map, it's seen that they're also exercising rights to some other social protection benefits they didn't even know about, or applied to. It can also be concluded that data on socioeconomic status are a key value of which many issues depend on the importance of both the public and the public authorities and the state. We have met with a whole series of questions when forming a draft of this law. First of all, the basic issues are what data are relevant to socioeconomic status, where we can get these data, then whether these data are available in electronic form, how we can use these data and organize them, then we also had a whole series of legal constraints that primarily refer to the Personal Data Protection Act. It's just some questions we've taken into account in defining the creation of this law. As we have already said, data on the socio-economic status of citizens are contained in three internal records of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, as well as in the registers and records of the public administration body. What's the big deal now? It is essential that one database is established on the basis of this social card register, where other than these internal three legal bases, which adopt the social card law, the establishment and networking of external systems containing relevant data which are essential for the definition of the socioeconomic situation and the definition of the right. Following the establishment of the register, a new individual enters the Register of Social Cards on the basis of a filed request or initiated mechanical initiations by an authorised official from one of the Ministry's internal systems to other internal records of the Ministry and records and registers of the public administration authorities from which the data is then exchanged and obtained in the register. So this is one sumptuous collection of all internal and external data that is essential for defining the socioeconomic status of the individual. In technical terms, the social map registers all data are pooled and synchronised, but it is very important to stress that administrative procedures under which social protection rights are decided remain in internal systems to support the work of centres for social work, municipal services and other bodies. In technical terms, the social map registers all data are pooled and synchronised, but it is very important to stress that administrative procedures under which social protection rights are decided remain in internal systems to support the work of centres for social work, municipal services and other bodies. So social cards don't solve rights, but social cards serve as one register, as a source of data for internal systems. As one conclusion of this introduction, we can say that the social card register is one derived register from data from other records and registers in which it is not solved by rights and it is the source of data for data users. What is the legal framework for establishing this requirement? The basic condition for the establishment of any register, including the register social map, concerns a legal framework that defines its existence and is precisely this draft law governing its establishment and management. The adoption of this law is, above all, based on the regulations of the Constitution which, among other things, are prescribed that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system in the fields of social protection, martial and disability protection, child protection and family protection. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees human rights and freedoms, including the right to social protection, children's rights, parents' rights and special protection of families, mothers, single parents. So, first of all, this law has a basis in our Constitution. It is also very important to note that the concrete basis for the introduction of social cards is contained in the government's 2017 and 2020 work programmes. The current government programme, presented in this House on 28 October 2020, states that social maps will allow citizens who are the most difficult economic situation to be visible in the system to exercise their right to protection in a timely and effective manner, to improve social welfare control and result in a much better and much fairer distribution of money. So the point is, for the same amount of money that we have better target aid, to find exactly those individuals and those groups of people who need help most. In addition to the introduction of social cards, i.e. the establishment of registers, other strategic documents are foreseen, the programme for the development of electronic administrations in the Republic of Serbia 2020-2022 and the 2020-2022 Economic Reform Programme. The objective of establishing a social map, as we have already mentioned many times, is that in one place we have all the information that is essential for defining the socio-economic status of the individual, and in order to achieve the rights and services of social protection more effectively, because of the fairer distribution of social assistance, improving the efficiency and proactiveness of the work of the authorities in the field of social protection. Who are the users of the social card registration data? These are the authorities responsible for implementing social protection and other bodies in accordance with the law. These are primarily social work centres, social protection institutions, local self-government units, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, the competent authorities of the Autonomous Region for the implementation of social protection, the competent Republic Authority for the implementation of social protection promotion activities and other bodies of the state administration and institutions in accordance with the law, for example, the Republic Statistics Office. Data users whose work is part of the administrative process have access to the original data in the register, and all other users can only use data in a form in which data cannot be brought in relation to a particular person to which they relate. It is very important to point out that data users can only access data relating to their territorial jurisdiction and the scope of the transactions for which they are responsible. Data in the register social map and functionality of the register are key values for which its establishment is carried out. Therefore, the register shall keep and process data on the individual and related persons necessary for the determination of socio-economic status, i.e. for the exercise of rights and services in social protection, as well as data on the rights and services already achieved in social protection that the person used at that time or used, as well as data on the rights in services which are in the process of achieving and the data on rejected and rejected applications. Data on persons from socially endangered and vulnerable groups can also be found in the register to assist according to the conditions defined in each individual case by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Also, what are the data on the social card register? Data in the register social map refer to general and specific data on the individual, as well as common and individual data related to the individual. General data on the individual are data relating to personal status, education, occupation, residence, labour status, movable and immovable property, income and contact data. The basic identifier of the person is the unique home number of citizens, i.e. the registration number for foreign nationals, and for persons whose identity is an unknown unique provisional number used to determine the identity of that person. It is important to note that, for the first time in this register, they are uniting data on immovable and movable assets and incomes from which certain rights in the field of social, family and martial disability depend crucially. The specific value of the general data is that they arise from the original records and registers of the competent authorities, which are up-to-date and which, in the case of changes in the original records and registers, all these changes are transmitted and that central register – the social card register and does not depend on the individual's will to report them, regardless of their legal obligation. So all changes are automatically updated. In addition to this general data on individuals, we have specific data on the individual. These are data relating to already achieved rights, then to payments of rights, also to denied requests, data on other money transfers, data on rights, subsidies and other forms of material support financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. These data are very important because they enable the collection of data from different records on rights, payments and subsidies related to both the Republic and local levels to be found in one place. Also, there are data on specific statuses, relating to health status, disability data, data related to functional independence, status of education, regularity of attendance, custody data, fostering data, single-parent status, single-parent status. When it comes to specific data relating to health status, it is very important to stress that it does not refer to any specific diagnosis, that the data is not withdrawn from any health information system, nor from the Republic Health Insurance Institute. These are data we're pulling from internal databases based on commissions that have decided on certain rights, let's say when it comes to disability or the right to other people's care and help. Common data of persons associated with a connected person shall be data which shall indicate the relationship between the individual and the related person, and the individual data of the persons associated with the individual shall be data relating to each related person. These data are important for seeing socio-economic status for those rights in which persons, families, or joint households participate. It is important to stress that those information relating to related persons are used only in the case of the processing of a claim for the right where we need information about related persons, i.e. family or household. When it comes to data exchanges, because we said we had three basic databases, internally at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and now the Social Cards Act will give us a legal basis for connecting it to eight other registers run by six authorities. What are those registers? First, the Central Population Register. What's being taken over from the Central Population Register? It is a residence, JMBG, then to foreigners, asylum seekers, refugees from the former Yugoslav republics, data from the Unique application for compulsory social security and property status data and estimated value of immovableity. The next register, external to which the internal system is to be connected, is registers of compulsory pension and disability insurance organisations from which data on paid pensions and cash compensation are to be taken over according to the PIO regulations. The next register is the registers of the interior ministry. We have two sub-registries here, because we have data on mobile property that applies to vehicles, and the other one refers to weapons. The register of the organisation responsible for employment activities from which payment data are collected according to the employment rules and the payments of temporary and special fees. Then, the next register with which the internal social card system is to be linked is the tax administration registers from which the data is downloaded, and there are also two subregistries. They are one, relating to income data paid to taxes and contributions to compulsory social insurance, including income from agriculture and other assets and immovable property, and another source of data from the tax administration refers to data on accounting and paid social security contributions. The eighth external register to be associated with this internal register is the RGZO registry from which the data on the rightholder of immovable property and immovable property data are downloaded. What's been done so far? So far, on the basis of existing legislation, the so-called "legislative" has been implemented so far. The first phase of the establishment of a register of social maps that implemented the procurement of the hardware-softver system and found a software solution where these three separate electronic bases were united in the Framework Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. So these internal data sources inside the ministry are united. There remains the realization of the second phase of the establishment of the social card register, i.e. the integration of this internal system with the external systems for which a legal basis is needed, i.e. the Social Card Act that we are talking about today. As we have seen, this is a rather complex procedure and that if the law is passed, we are expected to be connected to eight external large registers and records managed by six bodies, with these three groups of ministry records. This is a very complex procedure, and for this reason, the deadline for law enforcement is scheduled for 1 March 2022. The funding for the implementation of the bill was provided by the Budget Law for the current year, through Project 4002, the Register of the Social Card and related to the establishment of the Register. Very important features of functionality and registration The social map also concerns the possibility of forming different reports and forming and delivering notifications. A report from such a united base can be formed on different basiss, by periods, territorial basis, status of solutions, age groups, meaning different ways and analyses will be able to be done, and in line with the definition of target social policy. What is very important is the functionality of forming and delivering information or notification as a very important feature in order to achieve the objective of proactiveity that this database should have, that is, this register. What is that notation when it comes to the social map? This is a warning that there has been some change in data of importance for the exercise of the rights and social protection of individuals and associated persons, whether internally or in external records, which requires further treatment by officials in the competent authorities. The right of a natural person is decided by an official person and it is very important to stress that no computer-based automation of rights is performed. So the machine does not automatically assign the right, but only on the basis of one connected system it is registered that there has been a change in a particular feature that is important for the exercise of rights. This automation can be conditionally observed through the notification mechanism that the official warns that there has been a change in one of the conditions that is relevant to the exercise of rights. So, the user should not apply for a right change, but rather the system will, based on the available data and the constant changes that identify this notification signalling, whereby the official will automatically act in solving this problem. So notifying itself does not necessarily mean changing the decision and it is not about automating the decision on rights. The registry shall continuously and automatically verify the consistency of the data and any discrepancies and inconsistencies it establishes and forms those notifications which are our basic guidelines in the proactive work. Where that notification has occurred, it shall contain data that have been specifically uncontained, then the instructions of the data users that it is necessary to carry out the data verification and to decide upon the request of the party or to initiate the procedure under official duty, as it has been found that the facts which are essential for the achievement or change of the rights in the field of social protection are known. There are several categories of notifications, of which at this point would highlight error notification, accidental exclusion. Let's just say, what does that specifically mean, a social exclusion error? For a child, the right to a child’s allowance on the basis of the right to financial welfare granted by the family can be granted unconditionally. The system itself will find such cases, no specific application is needed, the system will be able to identify children who need financial welfare based on the social assistance provided by the family but also the number of children who have this household. Also, one example of this proactiveity is that a child can unconditionally exercise the right to regress in a preschool institution on the basis of the right to the family’s money welfare. Also, a child who has the help and care of another person enters unconditionally and is entitled to a child's allowance. Sometimes parents don't know it, they don't know they have the right to pay off on a number of grounds, and this is exactly how it's going to be recognized. Also, the amount of financial social assistance can be increased based on adulthood. These are all things where the system automatically recognises that a specific user in the social card system has exercised certain rights of financial assistance. However, any notification requires mandatory organ treatment, all notifications are classified according to urgency, and ultimately we have a mark when a specific notification is released when the dilemma is resolved and the procedure is completed around a specific notification. When it comes to data protection in the register, there is special attention given, as you can see that there is a large number of data in one place and there have been specific evaluations made when it comes to the protection of personal data. Accordingly, an assessment of the impact of the processing on the protection of personal data laid down in the draft law which has been implemented under the Personal Data Protection Act provides for protection measures in relation to the estimated risk values. The overall conclusion in the assessment of the impact of data processing on the rights and freedoms of the data subject has shown a low level of risk. Regardless of the low level of risk for the security of personal data protection, protection measures beyond the estimated low level of risk are provided for. What measures are being used and what procedures are being used to protect personal data? First, the authorisation of an authorised official, data user, thereby preventing unauthorized access to data. What does authorization mean? It's a control of the right approach. It's precisely indicated who, where and when can use this data. Then, the next degree of control is the authentication of a high level of reliability. It is provided using the username and password. Also, it is very important that there is a third level of control of this data and protection of personal data. This is the recording of access to the register, i.e. any access to the social card must be automatically recorded by the unique identifier of the person who accessed the data with the exact time indicated when the data were accessed, and the system also records the sources from which the data was downloaded, the procedure from which some data was changed, as well as the date and time of the data change, as well as the reasons for the change. All of this is recorded after accessing the register. As regards the part of the measure relating to the physical data protection and the storage of security copies of social protection, it shall be kept in such a way that the social map is located at the national data storage and data management centre providing the physical data protection of the highest level. Protection against external threats implies that data are located in a protected zone against unauthorized outside access so that they cannot be accessed directly. Communication with other systems and within the ministry is carried out through secure communication channels. Protection against internal threats concerns possible abuse from both administrators and authorised users themselves. Therefore, the system will record every approach, have protective mechanisms that recognize and monitor such activities, and what is important, permanently record them without the possibility of erasure. It's not possible to get into the system, and then cover up the trail, because there's exactly the time, who, when, why and why he accessed the system. A backup of data will be encrypted and cannot be decrypted outside the register environment. Access to the application is only enabled by authorised users who have a created account, role and access rights. Access shall be realised through the highest degree of identification, qualified by electronic certification and all logging shall remain recorded. In the end, I will present information concerning supervision, transitional and final provisions, as well as a brief summary. The supervision of law enforcement is carried out by the Ministry of Labour, the employment of martial arts and social issues. As we said, the deadline for connecting the social map with the registers and records will be the beginning of next year, January 1, 2022, and the deadline for the establishment of the register and its functionality refers to the time period of 1 March 2022. It is also intended for the Ministry to draw up a sublegal act to implement this law within six months of its entry into force, and it is also a regulation on closer mechanical conditions for the establishment and management of a social map that will bring all technical issues and issues related to the keeping of the register closer together. Finally, I want to underline once again the importance of the fact that, after a long-standing need to establish a social card system today, we are presenting a bill on social maps establishing a single register called the Social Card, and to establish this register it is necessary to have a legal basis, which is the law we are talking about today. The adoption of this legislative proposal and the establishment of a register will also have positive effects on citizens, the work of public administration authorities and society in general. For citizens, the effects are seen in the reduction of costs and time, easier exercise of rights and greater satisfaction with the public administration. Citizens who have such a centralized base will no longer have to go on more counters to collect different papers to prove that they have all the necessary documentation to exercise a certain right. As regards the advantages for public administration authorities, the effects relate to increased efficiency, reliability, economics, as well as the proactiveness of work, the reduction of the possibility of abuse, better social policy management based on real data, because any change in all this data that is relevant to the social - economic status of citizens is detected in real time. When it comes to the effects at the level of society, they generally refer to poverty reduction because this way will be better targeted and better targeted social assistance towards those who need it most, then improving the adequateness, quality and better direction of the social protection measure, and thus a overall improvement in the state of social protection and social policy. Finally, I am convinced that this high and respected House, after the debate, will adopt this important bill, and in the course of my work, I am available to you on all matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2849	I thank the minister. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. There have also been reports from the committees responsible. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2850	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives discussed this bill, so the proposal for a law on the social map and found that the proposal was in line with the Constitution and the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about budgets for social protection, of course they exist, but they are limited because the number of users is large. Therefore, there must be priorities and just to define these priorities, there should also be data on the social – economic status of users, which will also enable this law to be proposed. So, a register will be established that has been defined by the Action Plan, adopted by the Serbian government, whose reform priorities are for better targeted social givings. In practice, this will mean that citizens in the most difficult economic situation are more visible and that they will more quickly exercise the rights and support that comes their way by the state. Also, what is important is that it will improve on the other side of social welfare control and money will be able to be more justly distributed. One of the priorities of the government that we have already seen in the exposé is the concern of citizens through certain aid packages. We show this concern both at the republic and at the local level, and certainly a good example for that is the city of Belgrade which has set aside 76 million dinars for social protection this year. For example, an unemployed maternity or low-income child will receive a single total of 50,000 dinars for the first child, including from the republican budget of 100,000 dinars, a child's allowance and other rights, while, for example, after Gilas's government in Belgrade, it has remained a debt of 400 million dinars. In that sense, in order not to return to the sad stories of the Gilas government in Belgrade or for some period until 2012, but to continue to work in ways to help our citizens most, I call on you to support the adoption of this new law and give us a chance to apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2851	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, the Committee's rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2852	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty at its session, held on 8 February 2021, discussed the Social Card Act and decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt the law. Why? Because the Social Card Act is the first law to be passed and refers to an electronic single centralised database for all individuals in the social protection system and associated persons, because for the first time there is a record of both the Republic and the local level of all those gifts used by the individual in the field of social protection, because for the first time there is a record of those officials who have worked on the subject of recognition or refusal of a claim for a particular right or service. This law is also important from a preventive aspect, from the aspect of prevention of poverty and from the aspect of reducing social inclusion. This law is also important from the aspect of creating adequate social policy because we will come up with data that can be analysed, processed, made up reports, and based on it, the Ministry and the Government create an adequate social policy. Finally, we want to show by this law that both in the area of social protection of states and institutions that work for citizens are citizens' services, not the citizens of couriers and mailmen in the adoption of papers in order to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2853	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Muamer Zukorlic, and let Dragan Markovic Palm be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2854	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Card Act is from the point of view of the Justice and Reconciliation Party one of the very important laws, given the importance of the field being treated, but also given the intensity that, in fact, the issue of social policy and social activity is determined to the end and precise. One society can measure its own quality of humanity first to those who are the weakest in that society. To the extent that we are hearing, but not just a sense of hearing, but we are operating through administrative behavior, and before that, we are dealing with adequate laws, then we are going to show, or prove our individual, but above all collective, or institutional humanity. All laws aim to introduce order and actively counter the disorder. However, this law belongs to those that are so exact, at least in ambition, which is clearly seen through the offered text, but also through the arguments that we could read and which we just heard. Social policy is always present in the languages of all politicians. It is a topic that is very much used in political discourse, especially in political campaigns. There is no policy, nor a politician, nor a political group that can have any negative relationship on social policy and any positive activity, either legislative or administrative, with regard to further regulation of social policy and social issues and, in general, social issues. However, very often in societies that have failed to complete their own arrangement, this is one of those issues most often late and which are not easy to arrange, especially if the disorientation of past authorities or systems has been inherited, as is the case here with us, or in our country. It certainly is important to pass laws, certainly it is important that this field is fully regulated and regulated, but it is also important to know that the issue of social order, social justice and the quality of social services and the social behaviour of the state apparatus towards citizens who need social assistance or any other kind of help... It should be borne in mind that more factors are needed to do so. The first, key and key factor of social justice and social order is economic stability. In recent years, this country, thank God, has recorded very serious steps towards economic stabilisation and progress. True, in recent years because of the crisis caused by the Kovida-19 pandemic, we are facing serious problems, but in this confrontation we have indications that we are still well, even more than well, dealing with these problems. However, it is important to know that the path of full economic stabilisation and the establishment of economic prosperity is very long, but the fact that we have positive trends is something that gives optimism. In addition to the key economic factor, however, legislative arrangements, or arrangements of the bureaucratic system, are also needed from the ministry to all other institutions, including social work centres. The key factor or topic that we are likely to have to deal with for a long time is the issue of corruption. Protection from corruption is actually one of the key factors in establishing a fair and fair social system in one country, because everything that eats corruption or anything that alienates itself through corruption will first be the victims of the weakest, they will be the first to actually be abolished. I am certainly referring to general systemic corruption, but I am particularly referring to corruption directly related to institutions, institutions and competent social policy bodies, i.e. social services or social justice. In fact, what makes me happy is that this law, at least at first sight, will become a very effective means of combating corruption in the field of social policy, because the many abuses that we have, unfortunately to this day, have been among other things because we have not had an orderly information system in terms of data monitoring and meeting or not meeting the conditions, i.e. the inclusion or exclusion of those who have the right to social assistance or the inclusion of those who do not have the right to social assistance. So, I look forward to the adoption of this law, which at least, those who really want to fight corruption in the social policy and social services sector, will have the opportunity to track information, i.e. have the necessary data very precisely in one place, united and have the opportunity to know exactly whether someone is involved and not having the right to be involved, or whether it is excluded illegally, and should be involved. If we have those involved in certain social incomes and do not have the right, do not meet the conditions or do not fall within the social category, it will directly mean that there are those who have the right and who will be excluded. If some of them receive what is not theirs, it will mean that they will lose what is theirs. This makes a very important step in terms of, I won't say, a final reckoning, because for the final reckoning, in addition to good legislation, firstly, it will take a long time and it will take a serious political decision at all levels to deal with corruption. True, as we have heard from my colleague Tandir, therefore, this determination shown in the fight against organised crime, I believe, will continue in the fight against crime at all levels, both at local and central levels, but also continue on the front of the fight against corruption, because most often institutional or systemic corruption has to do with crime, and often or sometimes with organised crime. So this is what we're making a big step forward. We will continue to need to maintain determination, long-termness, endurance, political will and political determination to endure to the end, or win over the fight against systemic corruption, and in particular on this topic - corruption in the policy sector. I always say only what I know, and I know that from the space I come from, in Novi Pazar, and especially in the Tutin municipality, the social policy sector is one of the most pronounced examples of brutal corruption and abuse of social services mechanisms, social protection, or social assistance. This is not the first time I have talked about this, especially in the Tutin municipality, the Centre for Social Work is a means of the ruling party there, which has held the people for nearly three decades in its kind of political and social slavery. One of the mechanisms of keeping that people and citizens in that state is, in fact, a social work centre where they just... You can now, if the Ministry wishes to carry out inspection controls and, with existing information, it is very easy to obtain information that many on the list, i.e. on the social assistance list, are solely activists or members of the ruling party there, and do not meet the requirements of being social assistance users. Of course, there is one part of those who meet the conditions to be users of this social assistance, but they are necessarily being blackmailed to have to support this political option, because otherwise they will lose the status of the social user, which is in fact an indication that they, the social cases they did not comply with, they have lost such social assistance. The fight against such phenomena will benefit from this law, but it will be very important not to stand by the law, but also to have the legal and administrative and political will to deal with such phenomena. Of course it's not the only anomaly just social aid, but it's become a public secret, as you know, we obviously need to make some films about some phenomena and abuses to get society's attention to some phenomena. This question, the issue of social policy, is very sensitive and I am pleased with the determination through this law, that there is a majority will in this Assembly that this fight continues to end and that we really come to a point when the mechanism of social assistance and social services will be something that will fill our personal and collective humanity. I want to take this opportunity to share with you here, but also the general public, the experience of good co-operation with the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs over the past few years, where they have shown interest and showed good faith and supported the work of six vacuum or folk cuisines operating in the Sandzak area, more specifically in Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica, Novi Varoša, Brodareva, Prepolje and Priboj, thus helping these kitchens that were founded in 2010. There are several thousand people in those kitchens. They're available to everyone, mostly in mixed ethical environments. Perhaps the only cuisines that have protected users, their dignity, where there is not even a record of each user's personal data, is the rule of those kitchens that anyone who does not have a warm meal can come or eat in that kitchen, or in the dining room of that kitchen, or bring with them a warm meal for themselves and all the members of his family, without having to show no ID card, or be listed on a list. We thought then, starting those kitchens 10 years ago, that sometimes we have moments when someone who wasn't otherwise poor comes into a crisis, but that often dignity doesn't allow him to beg or ask. That is why it is very important when you offer help and help someone, in addition to helping them feed and not hungry, to protect their dignity as well. Mostly these cuisines are funded by voluntary contributions from various citizens, but for the past few years we have also had serious help from the ministry and I thank you this time. It's very important, first because it's really serious help, but also what it's about is that we have concerns from the position of the republican authorities that the entire territory of this country, and especially where we have ethically colorfulness, it takes another dimension and represents a very beautiful example. On this occasion, I would like to point out another problem that has been mentioned here by my colleagues regarding health insurance and the right to a child's addition to religious school students. Since I had the opportunity in 2002 to, together with representatives of the Serbian Orthodox Church and other churches and religious communities, with then competent ministers, prepare the law on churches and religious communities, so I am a little deeper directed than perhaps some other MPs, then, by adopting that law, we have succeeded in returning members, employees, students, students of religious schools, colleges, church members and religious communities, the rights that were taken from them through that socialist and communist time, and we have then happily realized that someone would never happen again to be discriminated against and disfellowshipped because they belong to a religious community, to a religious school. That's how it worked. So religious school students, or religious universities, did not have the problem until a few years ago. And then a letter came from the competent ministry, which was quite confusing, which was addressed to local self-government and was said that only schools officially registered with the Ministry of Education that their students have all student rights. First, this act is illegal, because there are two basic legalities of schools. Public schools or other private schools are registered with the Ministry of Education. However, religious schools, according to the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, are not registered with the Ministry of Education, but their legality and legitimacy is provided through the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, through their churches and religious communities, and are registered with the Ministry of Justice and the Office of Faith. We obviously have a problem interpreting here. Even last year, I held talks at the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Justice and we even reached an agreement to get rid of it, but the administration failed again. There was a correspondence, but we didn't solve this. I think it's easier to resolve at the level of the ministry, but if not, we will be forced to request authentic interpretations here in front of the Assembly, which should not be controversial, because the Law on Churches and Religious Communities is explicitly clear. So he provides the legality of these schools. What's not good is that we now have a state of self-will in local self-government, so simply a local self-government who wants to grant rights to those students, they have the right to do so. And probably in most municipalities, for most students and students of religious schools and colleges, we don't have that problem, because most of those responsible in local self-government don't want to cause them the problem. But in certain municipalities we have the will or intent or misunderstanding, it doesn't matter anymore. Anyway, this indicates that this problem isn't solved. This means that we have left the status of representatives or officials of local self-government to interpret who they will give it to and who they will not give it to. I felt the need for this to be a moment to explain it in more detail. There was no opposition in the talks, both in your ministry and elsewhere, but here I just want to point out that for months and years they've been going by, and these kids feel like they're being disfigured. I ask you that what we started with your predecessors as soon as we finish and leave no child, not a single man in this country, and especially a child, children must have a positive status, even in affirmative action, or positive discrimination if necessary, and not in this negative one. So this country will breathe with its lungs when every man has the feeling that he feels at home, that he feels in his homeland. It is our wish, our intensity and one of the key objectives of the Justice and Reconciliation Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2855	Thank you. Before I give my word to the next speaker, Mr Markovic, Minister Darija Kisic Tepavcevic spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2856	Mr. Zukorlic, thank you for your affirmative words on co-operation with the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. We are trying and we want to be available to all citizens in our country, because, as you have already pointed out, all issues practically in the jurisdiction of the Ministry that I am currently representing are very sensitive. What you last mentioned about certain criteria for exclusion of rights when it comes to a child's supplement, I am familiar with that, and I have been informed in detail in the previous period. What we should first point out is that nationality is not, must not and will never be the basis for including or excluding from any rights in the area of social protection. However, what I received as data from the competent ministry is that a child who attends a school institution should first regularly attend school, secondly that school belongs to the school system of the Republic of Serbia, and religious schools are not presently in the group. I also kept checking on what was going on, and I was told they were accredited, but they weren't verified. I am not fully aware of what these terms mean, absolutely, but in any case, such things should not and should not happen and we have already initiated a certain dialogue in this regard because nationality can never and cannot be, as I have already said, neither the criteria nor the inclusion nor the exclusion from any rights in the social sector. Also in the Register, a social map of one of the specific data relates to nationality and this was one of the issues of data confidentiality protection, but it should again be stressed that this information does not affect the allocation of rights. It is particularly important for the conduct of social policy, so that in certain analyses we can also work on a different distribution of socioeconomic status towards national belongings, and then target certain activities towards groups where this assistance is most needed. We're withdrawing data on nationality from a unique database that re-retrieves data from the registers of parent books. So if someone doesn't state that information then that information won't even be on the social map. I am just stressing that this is one of the specific data that is also being withdrawn into the social map system, but absolutely does not affect the criteria for granting rights, but will only be used in an analysis to correct the target of social policy. First of all, we saw in some previous period when it came to the Roma population, there were almost socioeconomic parameters much lower, and then aid and certain activities had just been activated by this group.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2857	Thank you. Replica Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2858	I think you should pay attention to the interpretation your associates gave you. So you've passed the wording well from the law. It is that one school is in the official Republika Srpska system. What does that really mean? No, in the official system of the Ministry of Education, but in the official system of the Republic of Serbia. All traditional and official churches and religious communities are in the official system of the Republic of Serbia and all schools that work within the traditional religious communities and churches are in the official system of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Well, because they function legally, because they have their own home number, because they're in all registers, because they exercise all rights as economic operators, as official entities in this country registered. Therefore, apparently someone unilaterally interpreted it by following only the Law on Education, i.e. on Education and that sector covering the ministry. So please, we have already discussed this with even the lawyers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and there has been a joint interpretation. What's left is that we're just administratively covering for one memo to come from the Ministry of Education, the other from the Justice Department. Of course, in my speech, I didn't imply that anything was happening at the level of ethnic differences. No, but there's a coincidence that members of the Islamic community, or students of Medresa, are more at risk for the reason that certain local self-governments have used this to deny these children their rights, and I believe that with this will or mutual will we can solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2859	Thank you. The word is made by the president of the JS Parliamentary Group, Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2860	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, social justice is the basis and programme of the Single Serbia Party and I can say that the state has a good social map for those who are threatened. The state gives 16 grand to a four-member family as a social aid, but I think that's where a family of four-members who doesn't have a country is supposed to be made, there's nothing going on for them, how many years have children living in that family, and it's not the same thing that children are three and five years old and those kids who are in the college of that family. Anyway, they need a little more money, and that's why local self-government needs to get involved. You know that we have been doing this in Jagodina for 15 years and have even called me – three thousand for a gentleman and four thousand for a lady. I've just increased it. It was -- two thousand for the gentleman and three thousand for the lady. Who called me back then? Those who are the opposition today are nothing to them, not three thousand euros, not three thousand dinars. So let's see how together the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and local self-government get something out of the budget that isn't necessary because we haven't realized that this is an emergency state of emergency, but the state of emergency in any case if people are left out of work, not in some large number, if our restaurants don't work in restaurants, and we know how many people are employed in these facilities, so when I'm at the locals and catering facilities, I'm interested in your opinion – if these locals are working until 20 hours, why don't they work until 23, and that's when they have a little more market than they do during the day, if these locals respect the measures that are prescribed? I also want to inform you, and I don't know if you know that a million citizens in Serbia have no organised transportation in over 15 cities and I don't understand it, and money doesn't need local self-government to conduct a tender and organise transportation. I'm going to name one municipality, Alexinac, where there's been no city transport for years and how these kids go to school, how people go to work is not clear to me at all, so that your ministry gets involved. They shouldn't grant subsidies, they shouldn't provide if they don't have money like Jagodina and a few other cities in Serbia, where citizens don't pay for bus transport, but those people living there are not easy and these mayors and presidents of the municipalities aren't waiting for Vukic who helps the maximum to give them advice now or you as a minister, but obviously you have to get involved. This is a huge problem. That's what I found out, I couldn't believe, the other day from the first TV that called me to ask for an opinion. I said it was a big surprise to me that in the 21st century we couldn't provide transportation for children, for those old people, etc. The question arises – how does someone get sick and not for a sanity vehicle, how will they get to the city or municipality where they live if their village is 15, 20 kilometers away? There was one contribution where an older woman said – before the bus came on Thursdays and now on Thursdays. Imagine, folks, once there's a bus to the village and Sunday's seven days. So I'd like to ask you to get involved in this problem. Another major problem is what is called the fight against the white plague and the number of marriages made in 2019 is 35,700, and it divorced 10,899 and thus fewer children were born. What is it called prevention? Do psychiatrists, people don't need psychiatrists, but psychotherapists to explain to that family that children can't be victims? I think that too much ingenuity has been given to social work centres in Serbia and cities. That's what courts should decide, and before that, I spoke here a month ago, there used to be a peace council in every local community, especially when a father and son are fighting in the family, etc. And then, peaceably, more than three or five members go into that family, explain that tolerance should exist because family is the basic pillar of everything and the meaning of life. Not to mention the statistics on how many people died more, and the fall in birth rate is greater than it was in earlier years. A large number of citizens from the interior go to large cities, and most of them come to Belgrade and Belgrade has no place left, except to expand and create some new facilities where these people will be able to live. If this continues, then we will empty all the villages from the interior even though now looking through percentages that maybe 10% of people live today rather than 30 years ago. That's where the same state has done enough to stimulate the birth of children. Obviously that's not enough. What I'm following, and I can say that there's a smaller number from year to year of socially endangered people. Why? Because those who did not work at one time now work a large number of factories have come to Serbia and are hiring people, so the number of social cases is reduced, but the social map is slightly moved. I live in the country and let me tell you, a man who has five acres of land and has tractors and connected machines, etc., they barely survive and what is the basis to pay the state, and they have registered land. They don't have a regress, they don't have a hot meal, they don't have a sick leave, so they have to pay for it themselves. You as a resolute minister, let's see how to fight that these agricultural pensions that were never seven, eight years ago, today within the limits of the government's state and budget of the Republic of Serbia, are being helped, one-time assistance, etc., but it is very important that these agricultural pensions increase slightly today. Agricultural pensions are 11,000 dinars, if the farmer supports four family members, and social assistance for the four-member family is 16,000 dinars. So it's better to be a social case than a farmer. To save villages in this way, to see how and what our options are and what our priorities are, given that this country is taking care of priorities and that the budget is spent by citizens, not politicians. So I ask you to pay attention and start visiting Serbia, as your previous Mr. Djordjevic did. I'm glad you took over that resort as a woman, as a lady, because women are more emotional than men and you see it very differently when there's a problem in Serbia somewhere. And not to be a criterion for someone to be in a function of similarity, but to be able and report on the work that this director and his associates have done in the social work center over the past years, how many marriages he saved, how much he helped families, etc.? Today, it is very important, and when they are determined, I don't know who the children will belong to, etc., that neither father nor mother be damaged, and one and the other have contact with children, let the court determine who the children will be, that this someone or father or mother are better economic situation, but also deny someone, and we have such cases in Serbia, to deny it, because someone from the social work centre said so. That welfare center, I think, and I don't think there's that kind of authority, but they're being watched from the angle that what they're telling you, that's how it is. I also wanted to ask you, since you're from the profession, those who have received the vaccine and the other now, it's been seven eight days, should they wear masks or not? Furthermore, if the UEFA made up of football clubs from Europe, the biggest and strongest football clubs, said that 15,000 people in Belgrade can be in the stadium when the Star plays with Milan, as your opinion on it is, if the distance is respected, etc. We'll take one sphere of interest or area at a time to shut down, and we'll live with Corona. I, as a layman in medicine, can say another minimum year and a half, and we've already lost one year of 2020. I know what a large number of experts will tell me, health and life are the most obstacles. Yeah, but there's something called life and family. Sport brings people together, sport makes leaders in sports to make young people leaders on sports grounds, that they are engaged in sports, not to be the leaders of those who ended up where they belong yesterday, because the purpose of life has so far been that a large number of families go to a sports game on Saturdays or Sundays, to some sporting event. There's always a risk without talking about health risk. If we are the first in Europe by the number of vaccines and if we have a large number, or if we have, not so large, again in Europe, we are the second, third, number of infected, those who have had a crown have antibodies and those who have been vaccinated have antibodies, whether we are now going to build a graduation, you who have confirmation or I don't know what you're going to these facilities or you can go to a game, and you who don't, take the risk at your own risk. There's something called measurements, suggestions, and there's something called commitment. So it's a public gathering, not to be a large number of citizens at these public gatherings. What is your opinion since you chaired the conferences until you became minister and right to tell you, I liked to listen to you so you were neither too strict nor too tolerant. After your speech when you're done, then we say and where it's on the left and where it's on the right. That's positive, not negative. Then he says, "I tested myself." And? I'm positive negative. Today in Serbia, it is best to be positive. That's the best diagnosis you have when you go in for a checkup. To save Serbia, to be one of the first states, because if we don't have factories, if we don't get locals to fill the budget, where will the state. He won't have to retire without talking about the social and social assistance that is necessary. Also, the number of users who went to the Red Cross for a warm meal has been reduced. So it's not the same as it was eight, nine and ten years ago, which means that the politics and these aids that were for the employees, the ones that work in factories, even the hotel owners who aren't on the mountains, were given some help. Another very important thing. When it comes to students, I have five students in the house and now I can say as someone who deals with this problem every day. What it means is that kids go to school for seven days, go to high school, and don't go to school for seven days. If there are an average of 24 to 26 students in the class and he says, seven days from the house online. Whoever's learning from home, did we learn from home? It's not gonna happen. I even wrote my homework at school, wrote for an hour when I went to school, and sometimes I read from an empty notebook and said, "Bring me a notebook, I close it, because I always had some logic, and I knew I was talking, and I didn't read and I didn't write." Let's see how we can help the kids. If our kids don't go to school for two years, we've lost that time we can never get back. Next, we now have a problem, what children write down. We have another big problem, and that may be more of a question for the Minister of Education, but also for you. We have jobs in schools that are no longer used, can't be employed. So these occupations remained the same 20 years ago. Instead of changing you to be a trigger, and we as MPs, what is it called the future, if it's digitization and everything is done on the computer, let's just focus a part of the children here. If the concept is represented in Serbia, there are a large number of factories, let's reroute a number of children to do so. Now that they ask me, what do you recommend? I have no idea. I, as a businessman, as a man who's received all kinds of recognitions from the economy since 1995 and as long as I run the company, can say for myself that I understand myself, I live in the country. Here, the other day I was drying the meat and putting it on Facebook. You know, how many exams do I have? Eight hundred and twenty thousand. Some have criticized me not to dry meat for a day, some say salty should stand for 15 days, etc. We dry the meat, salt it, for five days it stands salty and dry it on the same day. Here, I invite you when you come to Jagodina to try your homemade dry meat. What's called country life is the difference between citizens living in the city. Especially those who don't have a ride, but we also have to ensure that whoever lives in the country doesn't feel like a man who's being neglected or he can't go into town right now, doesn't know how he's going to come back, etc., and when he puts it on paper, his grandfather and his father say it's worth it to do this job and I'm going to do this job and I'm going to finish school in his village, in his town, etc. So these are the current problems. If we do not have a vision of what will happen to us in the future and we do not have prevention, then we are written very badly in 2022, 2023, because we are now the Balkan state that has the largest number of investors and most interested investors to come to Serbia. We should take advantage of the political popularity of Serbia's international creation. Yesterday, I saw Biden congratulating President Dan Serbia – Meeting. Look, this never happened before. No matter what he wrote, I don't know, to recognise Kosovo with one another, we'll never do it. What if someone made me confess mine, say it was mine. Do you understand? But it's a big step both in the world and in Europe, and all when you look at it is about work and social policy. You're the most burdened, you may not see it, but you'll see when it's six, seven months, a year that you're the most burdened, because all of you will be asked indirectly through centres that are local self-government etc. To create conditions for young people to school, to go to work and to respect these measures. But, look, if we take a statistical look, you as an expert, how many kids between seven and 18 when they graduate high school got rooted. Very little. And where did those who got sick get sick? At parties, where in one small room, because the bars are closed, in 15 squares you have 50 children, or 20. I went to three locations to check it out. Well, I say, wait, so she says we have cafes, we have restaurants, clubs, but it's closed, and it's much better to let them in there than to hide in houses, and that by the houses right where those parties, birthdays, the largest number of infected have been infected there. So we don't have a criterion right now, the Bather and Goldibor. You know now that they're back from the Bath and from the Goldibor, but that's something else, that's luxury, and this isn't luxury. This is not a luxury when a child turns 18 to celebrate his adulthood, to have thirty, forty friends, comrades, friends. It used to go to the army, so the rules aren't partying, they're fun, so the weddings are being made, and now the weddings are being cut off, too, to work on those weddings. I was talking here and it might have been funny to someone, but the wedding is the same meaning of life. Someone who has a son, a daughter and that she is young, the son of a groom, and that the next day when she passes, I don't know how many years, there's a picture on the wall, how her parents were, as I have, that my parents were newlyweds, that I was 19 years groom, that my sons, etc. Let's give it a little bit of a break. It's all about fighting for something called the fight against the white plague. You know what, today, and you have to admit it, it used to be love...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2861	Mr. Markovic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2862	I'm done. ... Love and mental. Today is an interesting love that lasts for a short time. Until the child is born, when the child is born, say, "Wait for the man, where the money is, you see the one across the street as it is, etc." I thank and apologize for overstepping my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2863	Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2864	Mr. Markovic, thank you for your inspiring speech. I don't know if there's one area where you haven't asked me a question, but we're going to try to give some answers that are within my jurisdiction, because the issues cover the health ministry, and businesses, and agriculture, justice, villages, education. What is essential, as you have already said, is that the work of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs is quite heterogeneous and virtually all the weaknesses of society are eventually seen in different needs for social protection rights. Now, you've mentioned several parameters that can be indirect indicators of socio-economic status. You mentioned the parameters of reduced birth, reduced number of marriages and different other parameters that could be in other different studies are indirect indicators of socio-economic status and some socio-economic uncertainty. When it comes to, yes, at one point you said that for a tour of Serbia, that and how we do it all the time, we weren't in your town yet, so I guess you mean we weren't anywhere. But we'll make it right. In any case, when it comes to the work of the Centre for Social Work, I cannot agree with the fact that some subjective opinions and evaluations make decisions. The Centre for Social Work has a role to play and their role is ultimately, after assessing the whole situation, at the level of opinion, you know that the decision is at the level of the courts, but I assume you're thinking about some particular situation, some specific cases in which you have insight. In any case, we want the transparency of work and the objectivity of work in these institutions that are essential to the exercise of rights, above all our children and family are the most important target group of the ministry's work. When it comes to this whole series of other sub-questions that are related to the pandemic, I thought I wasn't at the crisis headquarters today, but obviously these questions can't pass me by. You are a good part of right all the things you said, but in that second part of the sentence you were always telling the truth. Yes, it would be allowed and safe under the condition that preventive measures are respected. If we were to be honest, the whole world wouldn't need preventive measures, any other measures, if everyone respected the physical distance and the mask that we initially viewed as a necessary evil at the beginning. But, let's just say, in China, it was very quickly shown to us how it and how it works. So, it's unpopular to say that when it comes to, especially such beautiful markings, when it comes to weddings, celebrations, great glory, that's what we're talking about. It is unpopular at all to talk about recommendations when marking such beautiful things that practically life means to us and that have meant a lot to us all these years and that we have all wished for, but these are places that have proved to be intensely transmitted and followed by the deadly consequences. When it comes to schools, we are one of the few countries where in continuity schools are performed uninterruptedly, according to the system we have established. You know they go to fourth grade every week. You're right, he's in senior classes every other week. I'm just the mother of a high school kid, so I know that this second week, when it's online, it's not as productive as it would be if it were a classic form of teaching. We can talk about what would be better, what should be released, but the fact is we have to learn to live with this virus. Now it's a big truth, but more and more becomes a phrase, because here we are, and these last days and weeks, when we record stagnation, we have almost 2,000 confirmed cases every day. So that's what I said today in one statement, to try and count to 2,000, that takes a long time. The virus is there, but it's still not a phrase when it's said that we've gone into active combat, because so far we've just been away from the virus, just running away, running away from each other, putting on masks, and it's the only way to fight, if it's even a fight running, but that passive way of protecting. Now we're on our way to an active fight. Now we're creating immunity on target. How long will it take us to create that immunity? It is estimated that about 70% of us need to be immune, not that the virus disappears, but to prevent the epidemic spread of the disease. Now, in this collection of collective immunity, as you have already said, those who have been over the disease and those who have been vaccinated are entering. So, it's going to be a year now, as far as we know this virus is with us. This virus has long overcome health issues, primarily involving economic elements. You're right, we have to learn to live and work with this virus, but it's the country that manages to vaccinate as many people as possible at a short time interval, that's the one that's going to be ready to work and attract. Because no economy, no state, no matter how well we deal with it this year, can handle this over a long period of time. Crisis headquarters decisions are always unanimous. You'd probably like my attitude when I take it to the Crescent headquarters, because I am a supporter of the general fact that, with greater control of the measure, we have to go back to everyday life flows. But, as you said yourself, citizens' health comes first. Health has no alternative, and that is now the basis of the strategy. Again, we've been in this optimistic mood the last few weeks since the vaccination started, because we see that we're on our way to create that dam to further spread the virus.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2865	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic Palma, by the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2866	It's not a replica, it's just another question. Should the masks be worn by those who have received another vaccine and should the masks be worn by those who often have control and have antibodies? That's one thing. Secondly, if we are one of the first countries in the number of vaccines in Serbia, can a message, or something that was mandatory be recommended, at its own risk? Not what is forbidden is forbidden, but that there is a recommendation. It was recommended to close the green market in Serbia at the beginning. I didn't close in Jagodina after she was recommended. Believe it or not, we haven't had one infected in 40 days, or one who sells at the market, or customers who come to the market to buy. That's how we saved those who produce their products in plastics. They don't have freezers, where are they going to put their products? I'm happy with your answer. Just tell me this, about these wedding cheers. I expect you, like the lady I appreciate and respect, to say your opinion, and your opinion is enough to affect those of your other colleagues. You will have more meetings with citizens than those other ministers, whose job description is that they have no contact with people. What else is the problem? This is what I end up with. Some trials, when married couples break up, last between three and seven years around the child. I don't understand what it is for three and seven years to be questioned, to be concluded, etc.? What are you going to do to hurry up this process and bring a solution to who's right and who's wrong? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2867	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Dari. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2868	When it comes to the need to wear masks after receiving both doses of vaccine and that time period after the second vaccine, there is a general recommendation that masks continue to be worn. For what? First, these vaccines showed an extremely high level of effectiveness, above 90% anyway, and somewhere above 95%, but they're not 100%. So there's a certain number of people, a smaller number, that was vaccinated without creating antibodies. What's more important for most of those who create antibodies after vaccination, it's not fully explained whether the person who has been vaccinated by it and acquired antibodies, as well as the one who's been over it, so it has antibodies, whether when it comes into contact with the virus it won't get sick because it has these protective antibodies in it, whether for a while it can carry the virus in its respiratory tract, in its nose and mouth, so it can pass on to the environment. So, basically, wearing masks in the vaccines and those who have antibodies is primarily for the protection of their environment. As for the second question, how can an answer be given for such a question at all that you would not expect? Can you imagine a wedding where you keep your physical distance, where you wear masks and where you don't sing? At least weddings as beautiful as they are in our terms and in our people are not recognized to be. I even looked at some examples, I think in the U.S., as for the wedding, it takes a PCR test, even sharing some masks and bracelets that have antibodies, which have no antibodies, to then approach the guest depending on whether or not you see if it's marked, etc. It's all something that really just simulates reality, trying people in different ways to bend. But in that full amount of joy that our people are famous for and how we're used to living and looking forward to, I think we should be patient a little bit more, and that if this period goes on like this and that we won't be surprised by some new virus, some new features, we could be looking forward to such gatherings again very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2869	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2870	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected minister with his associates, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia expressed great satisfaction that we are discussing the law on social cards. Why am I stressing that? This is an extraordinary law. I'm putting it in order of the Law on the Origin of Assets and the Law on Salaries. I've been insisting on those three laws for a long time. We've passed these previous two laws and now we're going to discuss and pass the social card law. I think it's a significant day for Serbia. I've been waiting for this law for 20 years. Before that, I worked in the union. When the time of transition began, I kept insisting that social card laws be passed. There were always some insurmountable difficulties. Once there was an excuse in these 20 years – it costs a lot, then, we don't have enough information, we don't have an escort, we can't follow everything. Now we finally have the conditions to pass this law. What will that mean for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia? It's going to mean one socially organized state. This is what the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is fighting for, which means -- we want and we insist on a socially organised state. It is, as the President of Parliament said, and the constitutional provision, that means we respect the Constitution and move towards it. There have been conditions to pass this third law, and that is very important to us. When I say socially arranged state, we insist that everyone in our country has the right to a dignified life. Everyone has a right and should have the right to have a regular diet, to have liquid water, to have electricity, to have sanitary facilities, to have a place to live, to have education, to have treatment and to emphasize – a healthy environment. Serbia is seeking that goal. These three laws, for me, the Crucial Law, are now going to be passed. The full application will not start until 2022. I don't expect it to be overnight. It's too serious a step forward, it's going to need sublegal acts, it's going to need stalking, but we're looking for what a socially-organized state means. No success overnight. I expect there will be no more such extreme social differences in the state of Serbia where we are already getting used to it. You know, the decomposition didn't start yesterday. It started in the '90s. We said one word then – transition, privatisation and we know what was going on. The social wealth that existed in Serbia and the former Yugoslavia quickly went into the pockets of some individuals and we came into a situation where we had very few rich and very few poor. Why is that? Because our wealth is limited. If the great wealth of a few takes, then a great number of them will have few. That's what we have to keep in mind and experience the situation and fight for the situation that there are no extreme differences, that somewhere we have the opportunity to be all in some corridor where we can live a dignified life. I don't think I'm up for some distribution right now, we're taking from the rich to give to the poor, but to have tax policy, to have a regulated system, to know exactly what to give to the state, and then what the state can give to individuals. There's no free lunch in the economy. In the economy, you have to create something to share. Now let me point out why we need social tickets. It is necessary for those who survive to finally be visible. This means that we know who it is that does not have the ability to live off his work or that he has come into such a situation, then to ensure a more proper distribution of funds and a reduction of abuse. I'm a supporter of a selective approach, which means we're not all in the same situation. There are currently a lot of stories in the public about the collection of electricity. She's higher by 3.4%. By household, it's 150 and 300 dinars. For most families in Serbia, it is not a significant expense. For someone, however, it is a significant expense. I stand for the economic price of electricity. Those who can pay for it, and there are plenty of such people, they will pay for it, and those who cannot, who are recognised by the principle of social cards, will have the privilege of being released or paying for some symbolic price. You know, social peace can't be created in a way that speaks populistly, but that we just know who can. Or, for example, in Novi Sad, where I live, we have free kindergartens, so everyone has the right to be able to get their child into kindergarten and to use those services without any problem. I ask the question – and why would someone with an expensive 600,000-euro jeep have a free kindergarten? It should be possible for one who can't pay to have a kindergarten, and those who have it, they have the opportunity to do it. I'm in favour of the rich paying more. You know, I'm not one of those who thinks that social cards will solve the problem of poverty, but they're going to give one objective picture and we're going to contribute to a more favourable distribution of the social dinar. You said yourself we're extracting about 106 billion dinars for social needs somewhere. I'll remind you, and think about it, Madam Minister, that from 2015 to 2019, we gave 36.6% of the total state spending on social protection in 2015, and now we give 34.1%, so we have a slight reduction. I would be very happy that a large number of people have come out of this social zone, however, I think that especially now in the pandemic era, the loss of jobs, especially those who have been employed in the informal economy, they will also need social assistance and there is room for us to think that in the next budget for your ministry you are looking for a lot more funding for social needs to achieve that everyone can get this social assistance, those who need it and very much need it. I want to commend a very serious and studioy approach to making social cards. Anyone who has read this law, especially those additional tables, which are targets, which is the purpose, saw that it went studioically, that it went very precisely because it was a very difficult task. If that were easy, it would have been done 20 years ago. To get this far, we needed information support. We've got her now. So we have different databases. From these databases in one place we can get everything you need to really make whoever needs to have social assistance get it. Serbia is becoming an informative society for me, and I have to say it with pride. I remember when the current prime minister submitted her exposés in 2017, putting the information society in the first place in Serbia as the main goal. Should one be told that what has been achieved with the vaccination in Serbia is an extraordinary result? You get a message, you leave, without a great wait, you get a vaccine, and you get a call for a relapse. You know, it's a Serbia we didn't know, and now we're in it. I hope that when this law goes into full application in 2022, we too will be in a position to have the same situation. You know, when you have the right records, then the funds you have for that distribution you can share more rationally and people will have more opportunities to get into a situation to avoid the situation we're in. I said at the very beginning that social cards won't solve the problem of poverty. It will solve a richer Serbia, Serbia that is more economically powerful and that is what we must keep emphasising, but also tell you how to get out of poverty? You know, not all poor people are equal, someone in one situation comes to poverty, he's out of a job. You know, you have a situation of extreme cases like wars, such as refugee, such as job loss, divorce, family disease, death of income bearer, and you're in one situation that you have today, and you don't have tomorrow. I was in this, you know, Western Balkans, alone in 1992, living in Sarajevo, one morning I had everything, sat on a bus with one suitcase, and I had nothing. But I had a way out. Where's the exit? The exit is in education, the exit is in competence. You know, you can have whatever property you want, I don't know what you have, but if you find yourself in such a situation, the only thing you can carry with you is what you have in your head and what you do with your work, with your pawnage when you get a chance to get out of that situation. You know, there's a Chinese proverb -- if you want to help a poor man, give him a fish, if you want to help him for the rest of your life, then teach him how to fish. Of course, I can think of these Chinese proverbs, I have received a Chinese vaccine, I am proud of it and I am emphasising myself on the citizens of Serbia -- yes, I have been vaccinated and I can't wait to receive the poverty and I will continue to wear this mask because of the fact that it is very important and very important. I stress that if we want to get out of poverty, we have to invest more in education. That information that I told you that we invested less in social protection from 2015 to 2019, but therefore we invested more in education from 7.4% of expenditure to 7.7%. We have invested more and in health care, that's a fact, and when we have data for 2020 it will be enormous investment. Investment in education, in new jobs, that's what will lead us out of poverty and then social cards will no longer be in the first place, because a large number of people will come out of poverty. But a number of people can't get out of poverty. They're sick, they're people from, I'd say, some minority groups so I wouldn't insult my friends of the Roma community. Also, they're people who live in the country. You know, two, three times more chance of being poor if you live in the country than if you live in the city. That's true. Here you go, Madam Minister, I'm giving you one challenge. And that's -- let's get anyone over 65 to have some kind of pension. This pension, of course, can't be great, but it'll mean one security, everyone has the right to a dignified age. We have a population of 65 years plus a very sensitive population, a large number of poor people have. And that's why I think that as a society, we're going to be economically stronger, to think that way, and that's because we're approaching somewhere in 2030 where we're talking about the goals of sustainable development, the 2030 Agenda and one of those views is that you have to have a chance at some kind of a dignified life. I was talking about investing in education. Of course, that's very important. You know that in Serbia the primary school is mandatory and free. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia advocates that high school also be mandatory and free of charge. You know, when you have high school, you have information literacy, you have some knowledge, and in life, a lot of knowledge will improve, change. I've learned a lot in my life, and today I'm learning. You know, I never thought I'd talk on a variety of platforms, Zoom platforms, etc., but I'm not having a hard time learning, and I'm not having a hard time fighting to simply in new information times, living as it should be and how it should be. At the very end of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, its parliamentary group will be pleased to vote in favour of this law, we are giving you full support that the difficulties you will face, and you will face great difficulties, to overcome them, and that in the coming period Serbia is finally seeking a socialised state. I didn't mention the Swedish model on purpose. I didn't mention Scandinavia on purpose. I've stayed in these countries a lot, but I want us to strive for it, which is the essence of social democracy, of a socially well-organized state and the right of everyone to have a dignified life and the right to work, with equal chances, each of them has the right to live decently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2871	I thank the authorised representative of the SDPS parliamentary group. The Minister wants to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2872	Mr. Mijatovic, thank you for these words of support when it comes to the Social Cards Act, with a very clear speech where you have fully supported all segments when it comes to the importance of such a law in our country. I am also very pleased and personally when I hear so much emphasis on the importance of education, because we all have to talk about it often, that perhaps in some modern world where little is now being moved in some segments, in some societies of real value, we have to point out how much education is the basis of one independence and development. When I go back to the social card system, one of the basic data that's being withdrawn, when it comes to the characteristics of the person, that's education. But what was personal and frantic and surprising to me is that almost no country in the world has direct co-ordination with socioeconomic status. It is in collaboration with some other parameters, above all levels of independence and some other activities, but in any case these are the things where all as a society should work and education as mandatory in different segments is probably the basis for a young man to learn that it is the only real investment in himself that gives the basis for all other activities throughout life. In any case, thank you for the recognizable idea of a system of social cards, of a system that will lead us to a fairer distribution of social givings. As for that percentage that you've listed and set aside for the ministry, it's already the basis, so the percentage of the larger base and the larger amount of money, but in any case, it's the intensity. The power of a society is definitely reflected in the desire and willingness to help those who need the help most, and the accent is on what you said, to strengthen society, to educate themselves, to enable employment and education above all, and only to the most vulnerable categories that failed in the previous period and previous life to cope with how they will be given a normal life for even the most basic needs and to direct social assistance. So I thank you once again for the emphasis on the education that needs to be done and must be the basis for raising the young world in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2873	I thank Professor Daria Kisic Tepavcevic, Minister. The word has been made by Dr Emeshe Uri, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodjan Hungarians. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2874	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected presidency, respected minister, guests from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, will support the draft social map bill of the Republic of Serbia as it has already shown its need for the Social Card Programme. Otherwise, it has also been foreseen by the government programme since 2017, and has been confirmed again in 2020. In my presentation, I would refer to several important things that this social map brings to citizens and to those who receive some kind of social assistance. This will be a united type of data that will make it much easier to identify those who use social protection and those who may be looking for social protection. As I come from the health sector, I would like to give my support to all employees in social institutions, because in health care we have a long-standing good experience with the electronic chart, with the information system, as the fellow MP said just before, who really made a big contribution to being among the most successful countries in the fight against the crown. Thanks to this system we in the health system every day, in every respect we have insight into the health condition of our patients. Remember that the health system is much bigger than the social protection system. So, if the information system can handle that data somewhere, it'll probably work in the field of social protection. As far as further important things are concerned in this bill of law, I would like to set aside the networking of institutions. I think it's something that's important for the future of our country, for the well-being of our people. Practically, you should see it the next way. As in health care, especially in the primary, we tend to focus all our activities on our patient, around him, so we organized a vaccination along with the Ministry and Batut. So it's all going towards the patient, it's practically being organized throughout the procedure. That's how it's gonna be, probably, and I wish you good luck with that, using it as a social card tool. So that's one tool, one tool based on which employees, workers in social institutions will come much sooner, much easier, better, more precisely, faster to get the data they need and be able to provide adequate protection for everyone who needs it. As far as the ministry is concerned, you are taking care of the protection of the rights of the child, the rights of the parents and the special protection of the family, mothers, single parents, children, and that is very important for the benefit of the people. So we need to be healthy, but we also need to have basic existence, basic well-being in order to be a character member of our community. Also, this Social Card will identify groups of your clients to assess whether they have the right to social protection if they have returned from some countries where they have used the same right in those foreign countries. We must never forget the evasive faces, the displaced faces, the inhabitants of certain ethnic groups to which particular attention should be paid. However, at this time I would draw attention that it is very important for this process to go unstigmatised. So, not to mark the groups of citizens -- they're from this ethnic group, they're refugees, they came from abroad, so we should try to make it easier for this process to make sure that your work doesn't go to another extreme, that it's easy to catch up, emphasizes the belongings of some groups. It is certainly very important to form a social map, strategic and logistic planning, because if you have accurate and, I stress, up-to-date data on social security users, especially on the social – economic status of those users, then you will be able to plan easier, easier to make logistics, you will know where you need help most, where you need resources, where there are greater needs for them. But again, I stress what needs to be paid attention, and that is certainly the accuracy and up-to-date of that data. Certainly databases of other ministries, other resolute organisations are very important but should never be forgotten how important the work of social workers on the ground is. One example, someone may have a large plot of land in the catastro, but it's actually something you can't use to attract. Also, someone may have inherited from their ancestors a house that is wasted, which cannot meet some housing standards, so the paper is paper, the figures are figures, and the man is human. That's the most important thing, that this organization of business be to your clients and around them. So, because of them, it's practically this map, not just to make our job easier. It'll make our job easier, or it'll make your job easier. As for some other essential items in the social map, I would refer to very important formulations, so-called social inclusion errors and social exclusion errors, as the minister said. So attention should be paid to the apparent inclusion, i.e. when paper shows that someone needs help, but when the data that you get through the network system is analyzed, you will likely tear off some social aid seekers that are not necessarily necessary. There is also a segment of society, a group of socially endangered people who, I must say, are proud to suffer. So it's not poverty or sin, nor is it that man once guilty of being born into such a family, and yet he can have a more modest view of life, the organization of a family can have the right spine and the raised head to bear that poverty. That's why it's important to discover these people, who don't want to, didn't apply, didn't know they could ask for some kind of social help to be discovered, and I certainly welcome that. It's very important what we've been able to see from the draft bill on the social map that a great emphasis has been placed on some technical aspects of data storage, I wouldn't go in now, because it's not my profession, but it's certainly commendable to take care of where these data will be placed, who will be authorized to handle these data and who can see them, and who can change them, and who can use them. As for some of the actions that will be taken during the formation of the social map, this is a systematic assessment of the state of the natural person, i.e. on the basis of the data you will receive from other institutions, you will have in one place practically everything you need to know about that client, or if any change is registered by another institution, you will have the opportunity to see these changes. Then, it is very important that there is a processing of specific data types. I stress, as I come from the health system, that this is very important and I am very pleased to hear today from the Minister that the data obtained from health institutions is practically coming from the people asking for help, because in this way, practically, we keep the data, or can't, by some automation, give information about the health condition of a third party, even if it is the ministry, or the social work centre. So everyone has the right, after all, to have their discretion over their health. So I don't want anyone to know I'm sick, even if I'm poor. It's our right and I'm glad this right here is respected. Also, as far as ethnicity is concerned, as I said earlier, it must not lead to stigmatization or health conditions, nor ethnicity, so that this member is treated by some prejudices, according to the group, because there are always exceptions. There are always more who are members of certain groups who need greater support. Then, the new technologies used, new technological solutions in data processing are very important in order to spot, quickly get some information, about changing status, about changing data on a natural person, primarily economic, means ownership of property and potential employment, which is also a variable category. As I said earlier, so there's this field work maybe very important. By crossing and connecting data, there is a possibility that the error may be reduced to a minimum of social inclusion and exclusion. So that's what practically saves all of us money, and it allows us to get help from people who need it most. With regard to some risks of using the social map, the draft has been well worked out and it is likely that sublegal acts will elaborate protection, i.e. prevention of risks and reduction of the risk of the use of personal data of any kind. Again, it is very important that health data are not used from external systems, but, in practice, only what the user brings. As for the work of social institutions and the ministry, after the formation of a social map, I suppose we from the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians assume that the possibility of building a partnership relationship between social security providers, social workers and users has been increased. This is very important, because this is how trust is created between users and social institutions, and trust is achieved slowly and is lost very quickly. I would still point out that the health and social systems are multiplicity. It's terrible to be poor, it's terrible to be old, it's terrible to be alone, and if you're still sick, I think it's something that's terrible for society, for an individual. Recognizing such people is very important so that we can provide assistance, support and a health and social system in due time. But I'm stressing again, and that can't get to that man, so we can't depersonalize him. So his list should be respected both in poverty and in its unplanned and consequential difficulties, shortcomings, and in some material problem. It is very important that in this system, which is extremely well planned and I welcome it, not a man is lost. I'd say that saying right now -- lots of grandmas, a snotty kid. So it's very important that through this data, through these figures, through these analyses, we see again a man who is in trouble, who has the possibility of getting himself out of these problems, and there's a story about education that is very important, about the eventual formation of cooperatives, who will be able to improve the economic status of people who need this help. It is very important for employees in social institutions to be empathy, to be personally oriented towards people who need their services and at the same time have professional access. I think this law will give you good tools so you can do all of this extremely well. Once again, I would like to stress that the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will vote in favour of the Social Card Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2875	I thank you, Dr. Uri. The word has a minister for work, employment, martial arts and social affairs Daria Kisic Tepavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2876	Dr. Uri, thank you for this comprehensive analysis in which you highlighted the very most important points of the Social Cards Act, and in each sentence they also carried out words of support and understanding precisely for the adoption of this initiative by our ministry and this law. You've touched exactly the points that were most thought about when this law was created. You emphasized the importance of its functionality by identifying errors of social inclusion and social exclusion. Also, you recognized the potential danger of the possibility of data analysis, of discriminating certain groups depending on the method of analysis, but you wouldn't call it discrimination. They'd prefer to call recognition of precisely those factors where we need to act more, to help more, to work more to potentially recognize these social inequalities, too. And you've also put out a very important segment, which is to connect social protection with health care, because these two large systems are practically intertwined at different levels. It's something that's very important. Also, you pointed to data confidentiality protection. To us doctors, it's been a lot lately, something we haven't been prepared for, or trained to do. In previous years, it has appeared to be very important, and it is important that we protect that kind of data. Thank you again. It is evident that both you and your group have gone through this law in such depth, given your opinion and your support gives us a great boost and a sign that we are on a good path. Thank you for this analysis.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2877	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2878	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, respected representatives of the ministry, of course the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposal for a bill on social cards, because by supporting this legislative proposal we actually want to support the goal of achieving its adoption, which is to improve a significant area of social life, which is the area of social protection. Therefore, to establish a more efficient and as you have also stated in the opening presentation, a fairer system of implementing social protection measures. In this regard, I would first refer to the social function of a state that is important for the development of every democratic and social-legal society in which everyone should have equal chances and access to all services of the state. In this case, we're talking about social security services. Security of social justice, human and healthy society is a prerequisite for any progress, but, on the other hand, it is a test of one state's maturity. Therefore, each regulated state takes a serious view and builds a system of social rights that enables all citizens and social groups to live decent lives, but also prosperity and a better standard of living. Serbia is a state that sees its prosperity in the better lives of its citizens and seeks to build as righteous as possible and as broad a framework for the establishment of a social just society. The indicator of this is, among other things, today’s legislative proposal, a legal proposal that we are having today. Serbia's social policy is based on strategic documents of different sectoral policies that together make up one, I would say, a developmental basis, that is, the basis of society. Social policy could also be defined as a broad and diverse area of public policy, the main objective of which is to provide a precisely economically sustainable and socially acceptable level of protection for all citizens and sensitive groups from various aspects of social and individual harmful effects of various kinds of social phenomena and social processes. The task of social policy is to promote, in our opinion, equality, social cohesion and inclusion, to contribute to a model of even social development. It must have a non-discriminatory character, and when it comes to vulnerable groups, when it comes to invisible and socially sensitive groups, the rule of positive discrimination is also applied, as part of international standards that Serbia, among other things, is pursuing. It is the social protection sector as part of social policy that assumes responsibility for the country's attitude towards these categories of population. Serbia, I would say, has great experience in the area of social protection, which is based precisely on the principle of ensuring social security for every citizen, especially in situations that have caused serious consequences for the social status of our citizens. I'd only mention a few aspects. The first is the transition, i.e. the privatisation process, the second elemental disasters – floods, fires, slides, but unfortunately, the pandemic that is still going on and is caused by Kovid 19. Serbia as a state has not come out of transition yet, although the process is near its end, but as a representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I must remind that, especially in the first decade of this century, the social picture of society has been completely changed, precisely because of the wave of robbery privatisation, whose consequences today, unfortunately, are being treated. With all these challenges of robbery privatisation and rapid enriching of one, both these and previous governments have been faced in continuity since 2012 until today, as well as with the great social and developmental challenge and the need for the social function of the state to be more carefully planned, achieved in a fairer way, taking account primarily of economic development parameters, on the one hand, because social rights can only be achieved if you have real sources of funding, i.e. stable sources of funding, and this is achieved by the development of the real sector. Social and economic development are mutually conditioned categories. In order to do so, it is necessary, therefore, that social policy is accompanied by an efficient social protection system, which must be institutionally capable of responding effectively and fairly to the social needs of vulnerable, socially sensitive groups and individuals who need the help of society and the state in solving social problems and, above all, the issues of existence. In this regard, Serbia has brought in several years of strategic documents, i.e. a strategy for social protection development, which defines the development of this activity, to bring the network of institutions, measures and protection closer to citizens in a state of social need. As far as we know, the strategy is now being adopted for the period until 2025 and the new strategy contains traditional social objectives which are the basis of the social functions of the state. First of all, I am thinking about guaranteeing a certain level of social protection for all citizens, especially citizens in a state of social need, then encouraging employment as a proactive and preventive measure, with the necessary protection of workers' rights to which it was forgotten during the transition and "buzzarian" privatisation, when hundreds of thousands of workers were left out of work, social inclusion, i.e. the inclusion of sensitive and marginalised groups, prevention and banning discrimination on any basis, social concern about family and children as a priority goal, promotion of equal opportunities for all and opening up space for the prevention of poverty. I would especially like to highlight the importance of the social protection measure, which concerns families with children, single parents, people with special needs, their families, children without parental ageing, young unemployed, difficult employment categories. So this is something that we want specifically to point out as positive. The social protection system must be well-institutional and organised, professional, efficient, impartial and above all human, because there is no social protection, no social protection institution works for itself, but for the sake of citizens and must work in the interests of citizens, it is up to them to provide a decent life in case citizens are unable to work, are sick or have no one to worry about. The legislative framework in the social protection sector, as the case may be, covers several laws, starting from the roofing Family Law, the Social Protection Act, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and a number of others treated with different sectoral policies that give a picture of the social situation of the population at the overall level. Serbia as a candidate for EU membership has a lot of obligations, when it comes to Chapter 19 – social policy and employment, and in terms of improving legal solutions that would speed up the path of social reforms and there are socio-protective measures that involve prevention of poverty. These would be measures of easier employment, hard-working, young, women, education, what you have already talked about and professional requalification, protection of health at work, prevention of black work, because the only real way to improve social status is precisely work. In its 2020 report, the European Commission paid special attention to the social policy sector in Serbia, stressing the risks of poverty continued social exclusion, especially as a result of Kovid-19, which unfortunately left consequences for the social status of the population. I can't help but mention the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here. So, I think Serbia is the only country in the world that has singled out 700 billion dinars, I'm talking about a package of measures that has been implemented so far, not a package of measures to be implemented in the next time period, or six billion euros, which is about 12.7% of GDP somewhere. The question arises – has one country in the world taken over this much of the crisis on itself? When we hear criticism at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, then these criticisms should only be seen as a compliment, because you can cheat, you can tell the truth, but when you talk about the economy, when you talk about numbers, these are facts, they are inexorable. So the system works when it's the hardest, not just to work, but to make good, best indicators. We have the economic growth rate of Europe's largest, i.e. the smallest decline, and we have avoided that blackest scenario that has happened in many countries in the world. The measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are fully justified and are directed in the right direction, above all, to maintain the level of employment in Serbia. We came from a catastrophic 25.9%, as we had in 2012, to a historical minimum of 9% at this point, then they are directed towards the economy, to the private sector, because the private sector is the future and, third thing, to the citizens' standard of living, to a better standard of living, citizens through increased wages and pensions. So we can look at and analyze whatever criticism, but I think Serbia is the only country in the world that has managed to increase wages and pensions in the pandemic period, pensions increased by 5.9%, salaries to medical staff by 5%, in the public sector 3.5%, in April of the month by 1.5%. I think the minimum labour price is 6.6%. On the other hand, therefore, we have two pillars that are of paramount importance, but before that, separations that were one time, but which are very important and important to the citizens of Serbia. So, 100 euros each per adult citizen, and then to the pensioners, five thousand first, and four thousand dinars, 10,000 dinars to every health worker. So it is responsible, as I would say, for an economic policy that is socially responsible and such a policy will always have the support of the SPS parliamentary group. We have listened here and experts, call the experts, who have criticised this kind of policy, but you know, this narrow professional policy is not a magic wand and what is the essence of and living politics, and the living policy is a policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a policy that has a man, an ordinary citizen of Serbia at the centre, and that strives to make a better standard of living for every citizen of Serbia. And that's why we've defined two key pillars with the 2021 budget. The first pillar is, therefore, with salary and pension increases, to get to a better standard of living, and we fully agree, each saved dinar should go towards an increase in wages and pensions, and the second pillar is to encourage GDP growth, which is projected to 6% through capital investments, and never has more capital investment funds been allocated, 330 billion dinars, I think, because it has been shown that foreign and domestic investment in Serbia has been stimulated through the promotion of capital investments. You know what the key issues in Serbia are today, not these quasi political topics, political pulsism, political pamphlets, that absolutely no longer interests anyone? Today there are several key issues – were jobs preserved, were there layoffs, were the factories closed during the pandemic, and did foreign investors cancel their goals? Of course not. And this suggests that from January to November last year, 1.9 billion euros have just arrived from foreign direct investment, and foreign direct investment is an indicator, in fact the Financial Times is right when it says that Serbia is a magnet and leader in attracting foreign direct investment, and it is not by chance that it classifies and ranks us as leader not only in the region, but also wider. Let's get back to the law. So, of course, we are aware that the Kovid measures represent the recovery measures that have been applied to regular social protection measures and all of this is about the complexity of the social protection system, which, apart from the continuing social needs of citizens, must also respond in emergency situations. I'd like some information on the users of the social protection measure to illustrate that condition. The lack of the current social protection system can be observed, for example with several aspects. We spoke here and with representatives of the DRI. In the 2019 report, they found that more than half of Serbia's social assistance users were able to work and that the Social Labour Centres, which were already mentioned today, are not taking measures to reduce the number of employees of social protection. This points to an important problem, and this is a lack of adequate supervision. In fact, social protection measures under the law are being implemented by the Social Labour Centres. This is absolutely not controversial, as a guardianship body which essentially carries the burden of the entire social protection sector. They have very high powers and a great deal of activity, but practice confirms that their and modernising and better human and technical equipment are needed to meet the challenges facing Serbian citizens. Also, we have examples of alimony payments from parents, and that was not the case today. She's legally established. There are examples that ten and more years without alimony. During that time, single parents, the child they care about, are in a state of social need. All of this, therefore, points to the need to establish, all of this that we have heard about today points to the need for social protection institutions and social legislation to be improved, so that each individual and every child or every family, in a state of social need, is a priority. According to data from a year ago, so that's the 2019 data in Serbia, about 212 thousand social assistance users are currently talking about the current level of social assistance of colleagues. This is certainly not a small number or a negligible amount of funds that the state allocates. I found a statement by the Citizens' Protector, Mr Pasalić, in February 2020, which points out that he is talking about the risk of poverty and said that they are most exposed to younger than 18 years, families with three or more dependent children, older, sick, unemployed in Serbia, are often, as he said then, in a particularly difficult situation, and these data certainly binds us. So, social work centres that are the most specific social protection service, we have nothing against, all forms of state support should be provided, including reforming, so as to be able to quickly and responsibly, professionally and in accordance with the law, so as to bring burdens and answers to everyday challenges and encounters with the most vulnerable categories of population. On the other hand, the need for more adequate and continued, as I said, to control the use of social funds, to prevent abuses and help from going into the right hands. From this need to build up social legislation, the proposal for a law that we are talking about today, which is the proposal for a Social Card Act. This law is a good way, in our opinion, to define the priorities of social policy in the field of social protection, to identify target groups and individuals and to shape measures that best meet their social needs. In order for the picture to be realistic, both real and integrated data must be used, which will just provide the legal proposal that we are talking about today. All the dilemmas that exist should be resolved by the Social Card Act, as you said in the opening statement, a unique register, or an electronic database with integrated user data, the fulfillment of conditions, types of assistance, the period of use, and most importantly, a database called the Social Card. The passing of this law has been defined among other things as a priority in the Expose of the Prime Minister, namely the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, both from the aspect of the reform, the social protection sector towards fairer support for users, and from the aspect of the digitisation of public administration. The social map, as a single electronic base at sector level, will allow citizens who are in a state of social need to become visible in the system in order to provide timely support for social protection. What I want to point out is my confidence and confidence in the SPS parliamentary group that Serbia, which today is an economically prosperous country with a huge number of investment and infrastructure activities, will be able to make intensive social policy measures, youth employment policies, housing building under favourable conditions, active measures of population policy, but also through, as I said, an increase in wages and pensions, as well as other active measures of economic and social policy, everything to make its citizens live better, to be more people in the world of work than on social work centres lists. At the same time, Serbia as a country in which social justice is a constitutional postulate must guarantee everyone who cannot provide their own social existence all needs and forms of social protection. Once again, at the very end, it is absolutely indisputable to support the SPS parliamentary group when it comes to this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2879	I thank the president of the SPS parliamentary group. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2880	Mr Milicevic, I would also like to thank you for your support and affirmative words about all the facts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done during the previous period of time during the difficult pandemic year and all the measures that we have managed to come out strong and we hope that this will continue in the next period of time. The fact that you have also cited - the figures relating to the percentage of social security users who are working and are not accurate, but are alarming. In any case, we need such users with different active employment measures to translate into a group of people who are actively working and doing things, but I must point out that there is a significant kind of right where the state of employment and the property situation is not the basis for obtaining rights. For example, these are the rights of other people's care and assistance that depend predominantly on health and status. So there are also categories in this group, but in any case a working-age population, it is the intensity of the National Employment Service and the general government to enable them to have jobs and an active employment strategy to be the basis for us, and social giving is directed at those categories where such measures have failed to achieve all the benefits that allow normal life-functioning. Thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2881	Thank you. The word now has the authorised representative of the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2882	The Honorable President-in-Office, respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we have a whole new law from the domain of social protection, which is the Social Cards Act. Social protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia has been established by the Constitution, Article 69. It is carried out toward individuals and families who encounter various social difficulties when they are unable to meet basic life’s, i.e. existential needs, and then the state is obliged to provide them with all necessary support and assistance. Of course, social protection is based on the principles of social justice, on the principles of humanity, and on the principle of respect for personality dignity. What I want to say first of all, I want to say that this law is precise, clear and concrete without any excess details of any member of the law is quite clear, which is also how significant from the aspect of implementation, i.e. from the aspect of law enforcement and the use of the law of those who in their daily work should apply this law, and who in their daily work will apply this law? These are social work centres, these are local self-government authorities dealing with protection powers, these are the authorities of an autonomous province, that is the ministry, but this is also the Republic Bureau of Statistics, as well as the Republic Social Protection Office, which will deal with the analysis and processing of the data provided. What is of priority is that it facilitates the data collection process of all those institutions before which citizens conduct administrative procedures for the exercise of some of the rights of social protection, and the Minister himself in his opening statement said that this is a huge number of rights that can be achieved from the domain of social protection. Thus, in administrative procedures in a fast and efficient way through networking with other systems, the authorities will come up with facts that are important for the exercise of the rights that citizens, i.e. users of social protection rights, are looking for. It is also important from the point of view of citizens because in a much faster, simpler way, only coming to the Centre for Social Work will be able to quickly achieve one of its rights or eventually there is the possibility of achieving rights, but there is also the possibility of not achieving rights. This law is also important in terms of what will be given in the social map to the database of all of the particularly sensitive and vulnerable social groups, for example children, young, old people with disabilities, single parents and other persons with disabilities in mental development, persons with disabilities, and what is very important from the aspect of the risk assessment of elementary accidents and these data will be provided by the Ministry to the competent Department for emergency situations of the MUP. I also want to point out that social protection is one of the social policy segments. Social policy and economic policy are causally linked. Economic policy is the foundation of a single country. This foundation is thanks to Alexander Vukic's policy, and also to the government, on solid grounds. That foundation is solid, strong and stable. The economy is on a healthy basis, and the upgrade is social policy. Of course, economic policy cannot go without social policy, and the precondition for its growth and development is economics. What I particularly want to stress, and it refers to digitisation, because this law, in fact, represents a unique database in electronic form, I want to point out how much digitisation as the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown its importance during 2020, and now in 2021, during the Kovid pandemic, especially when it comes to reporting for vaccination. Citizens were able in a very simple way from their houses to apply for vaccination via the e-Government portal, and then for re-treatment, they did not need to report, but because they had already entered the database they would be invited to re-accination. What I'm saying is that social protection rights in this time of the pandemic, as in previous times, were all paid in time. No right in the field of social protection, and it is also about children's protection rights and rights from fighting protection and rights under the Social Protection Act, has been delayed for a day. No social protection law has been reduced by a single penny. When it comes to particularly sensitive and vulnerable social groups, which are the old people exposed during 2020 to an increased risk of infection by Kovid 19, I must say that in social protection institutions, the gerontological centres show great responsibility regarding the care of those old people and the adequate recognition of possible infection and association with the health system so that all the users of the gerontological centres are given time, timely and adequate health care. In that sense, I must point out that, in light of the marking of the Peace Day, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, apart from doctors who are heroes and health workers, who were heroes in 2020 in the fight for the lives of our citizens, in battle with the invisible virus Kovid 19, presented the award to the Gerontology Centre in Belgrade, the Gerontology Centre in Novi Sad, the Gerontological Centre in Sapac, as well as doctors and nurses at the Gerontology Centre in Belgrade and the Gerontology Centre in Novi Sad. This is another indicator that social security employees are doing their job safely. Social security employees in many of the troubles that have affected our country, and these troubles have indeed been a great deal, showing that they are always with their citizens and that they are always standing on the defender of the country. What I also want to say is that Serbia started vaccination three days before other EU countries. The priority in vaccination was again the old faces and you personally attended the Gerontological Centre of Belgrade, the Gerontology Centre in Novi Sad and the Gerontological Centre in Nis where these oldest citizens were vaccinated. Their interest in vaccination is high. Now it's been re-occurring because all those who have been vaccinated for all have been provided with a sufficient number of vaccines to re-vaccinate. What I must also say is that Serbia is the only country, not in Europe, but in the world, where citizens have the right to make a choice of vaccines. So, there are three vaccines present at the moment and they can make choices, starting and estimating the doctors' suggestions in the end, they make their own decisions about vaccination and make their own decisions. What I also want to say concerns the economy, but it is also linked to social protection. I must say that the report of the International Labour Organisation and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which refers to employment and Kovid-19 in the Republic of Serbia, noted that Serbia is one of the few countries that has taken comprehensive and comprehensive measures both towards the economy and citizens in order to preserve jobs. Thanks to these measures, she managed to reduce poverty by 1.2 index points. So, Serbia, although the whole world has hit a pandemic, has been hit by a major economic crisis that is the largest of the 30s, Serbia has managed to fight it in a way much better than some rich countries. After all, all these rich countries today congratulate our President, Alexander Vukic. These are countries like Switzerland, like France, like Germany, like the United States. After the UK, Serbia is ranked second by the number of vaccines compared to the total population. In times of severe pandemic, Serbia succeeded thanks to economic stability, twice sending one-time cash aid to pensioners 4,000 and 5,000 dinars, to raise salaries to health workers 10%, but since 1 January 2021, the increase in pensions has gone towards the Swiss model 5.9%. The minimum profit is 32,126 dinars and it has increased by 6.6%. Of course, the state also takes care of the economy in order to preserve jobs, so the untaxable portion of the income increased from 16.300 to 18.300. Serbia is the only country in Europe, and perhaps among the two countries that managed to build two coves of hospitals in record time, it is the hospital in Zemun and the hospital in Krusevec in December, just when the infection had taken place and it was precisely to provide places for health care for every man whose health care was necessary. I must also point out that unlike Dragan Gilas and the yellow octopus, who, by coming down from power, remained in debt to the poorest citizens in the city of Belgrade 120 million, those citizens who sought help for their existential needs, remained in debt to the families and pregnant women of 400 million dinars, displaced the Roma into tin containers, and those who did not have personal documents moved to various parts of Serbia, with the entry of the bus to which they were taking place. It is a time that will certainly never happen again, because Dragan Gilas and the yellow tycoon octopus are promoters of poverty and promoters of their full wallets. This was recognized by the people and, therefore, in the June 2020 elections, he gave two million support to the politics of Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2883	Thank you. If no one is answering for a word, we're done with authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, so let's move on to the list of speakers. The first on the list is National MP Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2884	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the issue of passing social card laws is very important. From the domain is certainly a social policy that is very important for every society, and therefore our country is very important. What should first be a positive reflection of this law is certainly an attempt to prevent abuse in terms of granting social assistance to those who may not deserve any kind of social assistance, and in fact accomplish this aid in some way or on the other hand, a unique electronic database will just lead to a precise and clear insight into the social structure of the population and in that database will be united and covered by all those who need a certain type of assistance and support and thus we certainly hope that their right will not be denied. Social labour centres are institutions, i.e. institutions that should not be misused in any way, but the fact is, unfortunately, this is happening. From the Sandzak area, in particular cities and municipalities, we are constantly pointing to a flagrant violation of the law regarding certain items or violations of the rights of citizens that occur from current authorities, or regimes that have been in power in the cities of Sandzak, we are free to say for several decades. In particular, the DRI combing and reviewing the report on the work of the Centre for Social Labour Novi Pazar for 2019 has seen a number of irregularities, i.e. errors. For example, it shows that 1.7 million dinars were paid in the name of one-time cash aid, but without complete and up-to-date documentation. It is said that the centre paid the money without making a decision on the exercise of rights, but on the basis of certain lists delivered by mayors, city council members, as well as members of the city's administration. Therefore, the adoption of this law will not be able to work on the principle of how lists have been delivered so far, because it is questionable who was actually on those lists, whether these are categories of persons who needed help or who, on some other basis, came up with certain privileges. The Tutin municipality, which we have heard a lot about today, which I think is a front in a negative context with regard to the violation of rights and discrimination against citizens who do not belong to a political option that is in power, is actually preceding a number of irregularities. For example, in particular, the inhabitants of the Lower Cave are considered to be a large number, in fact, of data where a certain inspection control can also determine that it is not simply pending the entry into force of the law in 2022, and then until it is specifically implemented. So, residents of the area, for example, use most of them that belong, especially the political option that is in power, using social money, which they would not have or would not have the right to do so, and on the other hand, a large number of citizens remain deprived of the same aid. The violation of the right of citizens goes, let's say, to the point that any possible action is party-colored, unless you're a member of the SDA Sandzak, let's say, clear your way to your house, but will only go towards activists who actually belong to a particular political option. In view of the further view of social policy alone, I believe that further attention should be paid to certain sensitive categories of society, and I am particularly referring to the question of financial assistance to women in rural areas, women in the country who are far more in line than women in urban areas, for example. On the other hand, the protection of the rights and affirmation of the rights of the child, especially the rights of girls, on the other hand, the question of single parents, the question of alimony that we mentioned during today's session, therefore, social sustainability and the general economic power of the family where one parent feeds and maintains the family, and probably the alimony only pays out on a regular basis, and these issues should, in the future, be given additional attention and account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2885	I thank Professor Misali Pramenkovic. Next is Natasa Mihailovic's National MP Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2886	Thank you, Chairman. Without a doubt, the introduction of social cards is necessary and the first step towards the fair distribution of money to the poorest and, of course, to the prevention of all kinds of abuse of social giving. The government and state's goal is more than clear. Social responsibility and recognition of those who need help most. Making a social map and a fairer distribution of money for the poorest will not make it possible for social assistance to be given to those for whom it does not belong, which has happened rarely. We, the Social Democrats of Serbia, and all those who share our values, are going from the principle of equality and the right to life to a worthy man. So even today, when we talk about social cards, I take the opportunity to confirm our determination to build a more human society of equal opportunities. Every human community, and especially the state, can be persistent and effective if it is treated justly. For every man, justice is a value that gathers and a power that inspires. In light of today's topics, I remind you of the words of Joseph Vressinski, founder of the international ATD of the Fourth World Movement written on the memorial plate in Paris: "Where a man is forced to live in poverty, human rights are being violated. It is our supreme duty to unite in the fight for the respect of these rights. “ For every man, freedom, equality, are proportionate distributions of social wealth, respect, solidarity, and equality are just the basic principles of justice as top values. That is why, in our understanding, there is no justice unless it covers all segments of society, or if it is not social. The goal of the state as an organised part of society must be general prosperity. The proportionate distribution of social wealth, justice, the right and the possibility of all, and especially those who did not find their will at the bottom of the social scale, to feed, dress, live, heat, treat and school. It is from these principles, the principles of justice, that Serbia must draw its strength. Efforts for social justice and the construction of a more human society, equal opportunities in our country, require the involvement of reasonable, honest and working people. Social justice society can create those who understand and respect its meaning and who persist in the work of the common good. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, respecting the principles on which equality, freedom, solidarity and social justice were established, has just declared its party's Day on February 20th, Social Justice Day. The government's latest report on social inclusion and poverty reduction suggests that half a million people in Serbia cannot meet the basic needs and that almost 25% of the population lives at risk of poverty, and over a quarter of our citizens use about 100 euros in social aid per month and eats in the public kitchen. The poorest hit the youngest. Children who grow up in poverty and poverty are very hard to achieve their rights to life, to play, to develop, to education, and to have far less chance of success in life. More important than the issue of poverty itself is the question of how we approach this problem, how we understand it and how we think about possible solutions. What exactly do we have to do to reduce poverty in Serbia? Education and employment are certainly two key areas in the fight against poverty. It is clear to every well-intentioned man that social justice is achieved with responsibility in public affairs and care for people. For us in the SDPS, a commitment to social justice means a commitment to workers' rights, the achievement of social security and care for the unemployed, respect for pensioners, a more dignified middle class status, a more equal position for women and the participation of marginal and vulnerable groups in the decision-making process. We, Social Democrats, want to correct the injustice that makes a big difference between having and not having, and to reduce that gap as much as possible. We are in favour of such a redistributive role of a state that will ensure equal chances and opportunities for all and in longer paths to root out or at least reduce poverty to the greatest possible extent. In the voting day, the SDPS parliamentary group will support the law you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2887	Thank you. Your MP group has four and a half minutes left. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2888	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has a folk emissary, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2889	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Prime Minister, the proposed Social Cards Act stems from understanding the needs of sensitive social groups and creating social protection services exactly in line with these needs, and this is an important and major step towards strengthening the position of not only sensitive groups, but society as a whole. For this reason, the Single Serbia, as a socially responsible party, will support the proposed law in the voting day. The purpose of the law is to arrange a system of social and disability protection, childcare, as well as the collection and processing of data on the persons to whom the law applies. I want to take this opportunity and your presence in the Assembly today, Madam Minister, and point out a problem that certainly concerns social protection, so I'm not going to get out of the picture. Otherwise, two years ago, I asked your colleague, former Minister Djordjevic, in this particular house in the Assembly, about the problem faced by parents of several thousand children with disabilities. Otherwise, in 24% of families, one of the parents has to give up work to take care of the child, because children need constant care and attention, which leaves them without one piece of income. These parents want to equalize themselves with foster families and gain the same rights because foster parents are paid up to 50,000 dinars. Since you've now taken over the ministry and started working, I want to ask you if it might be a proposal for a social protection law, because its adoption would regulate the fundamental rights and economic position of the children's families with disabilities? I got out of the social map area for a little while. Unique Serbia believes the proposed law is good, as it will reduce abuses, will allow the integration of the system of the competent ministry and the system of other state institutions. There will be a better, full insight and one analytical base that can help to see who can achieve social assistance. Very often among citizens you can hear a question and disdain – who can exercise rights, for example, on a child's allowance? So you have a situation where a multi-member family, which has more countries than is foreseen by the Social Protection Act, and that country is worth nothing because it can't be processed, not because these people don't want to process it, is simply unaccessible, can't sell it, and on the other hand you have a picture where people in a visiblely better material situation have the right to do so. I think we're about to stop by making social cards at the abuse of these things. I know the government's priority is to increase the birth rate and support the family. For the United Serbia, this is the basis for a modern society, and Serbia is exactly the kind of society. We have also heard various criticisms that families are not supporting themselves enough, which is not true, because help is also seen through social assistance, through child support, help from unemployed families. Every year, social assistance funds increase, and this is seen through the budget. Many local self-government through the centre of local services have managed to develop and improve existing social protection services. One such is the King who provides seven services through the local service centre. The plan is to introduce the eighth, i.e. the stay of children with developmental disturbances. It's necessary to the King. This will improve the quality of life as children, as adults with developmental disorders. On the other hand, you have the city of Jogodin which every last working day of the month has citizens' reception, where it is directly discussed and aids socially endangered citizens. Just now, Dragan Markovic Palma, president of Unity Serbia, has been saying how much this aid means. Some have mocked 3,000, 2,000 for the lady, but I believe that you, Madam Minister, have visited Serbia and in conversation with citizens, seen how much this assistance means to families. Because someone's got a lot of money. When I mention social services centres, they meet all needs in accordance with their competences. The Republic through various employee training wants to raise quality, but I think it is necessary for the institution to operate even better to employ more workers. Getting ready for my presentation today, I've come up with information that even about 800 workers need to be employed in the social protection system and that some institutions don't even have lawyers, which we can't allow, since they're deciding exactly on citizens' rights. Since I no longer have time, as I said at the outset, Unique Serbia as a socially responsible party, and in order to help those who need assistance most, in the voting day will support the proposal for a bill on social cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2890	Thank you. The word is from Minister Kisic Tepavcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2891	You have opened a whole series of issues that are of great importance for the achievement of social rights for certain categories. When you specifically asked about families with disabilities, the fact is that many of them don't work to look after a child. Yes, this has raised various questions regarding the receiving of a particular type of material aid. A direct answer to the question you asked, whether we are working and whether we are planning to amend the Social Protection Act – yes, we are in the process of forming a working group. And not just that question, but a whole series of questions to make more arrangements for this field, where we really need to act, because we know it's the most sensitive field and we need to be active here.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2892	Thank you. The People's Messenger Joseph Broz has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2893	Dear President, respected Madam Minister with associates, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today is on the agenda a whole new law in the field of social protection. This is a proposal for a social map law establishing a single register of data on all users of social security rights, which includes all rights covered by social, child and martial law. This topic is also particularly important for my parliamentary group, but also for me who have been brought up on the principles of social justice, equality, equality and equal opportunities for everyone and solidarity with those who are unable to provide enough resources for life. By entering transition and capitalism a lot has changed, Serbia has gone through various periods, especially in 2000, when hundreds of thousands of workers have lost their jobs due to privatisation. And when the economy fails, there is no social policy that takes care of every citizen and family who is unable to work because of sickness or disability and gets the necessary social support of the state. Today, this government and Serbia's leadership are restoring Serbia's reputation, and thanks to good economic policy, there is room for an even more humane relationship with those who do not have and who cannot because of sickness and disability to work and earn a living, so they need the support of the state, i.e. a social map providing a minimum of existence. The proposal for a social card law establishes one register that will pool all relevant data of importance for the exercise of rights and social protection. This is about the economic and social status of users. The social map should ensure a fair and humane relationship with those citizens who are in the most difficult social situation and have no means to live. Social map data should prevent abuse and illegal use of budget funds, as there will be a precise and clear social picture of each user. Thus, it will not happen that social assistance is not really received by the poor, sick, disabled and old, and that some workable people who do not want to work water as a person without income who fulfils the conditions for some kind of social assistance. I would also refer to the social policy that goes towards our oldest citizens, as we usually say, to third-century citizens, regardless of the measure of social protection they benefit or can use. It is about citizens who have completed their working life and deserve a peaceful, safe and safe age, whether they have legal heirs or not. It is also about old people from rural areas who have never been in a working relationship or have been producing food for us from cities all their lives. It's about old, abandoned and single people who don't have close relatives. All of them can become users of different social protection measures. The humanity of a society is measured by the attitude of its oldest citizens. For Serbia, the attitude towards the old is particularly important. From all social aspects above all, Serbia is a country with a high percentage of older people, of more than 20%, with a forecast that by 2041 that percentage will rise to 25.2%. Such demographic movements require the adaptation of the system and the measure of social protection to the elderly population. Old people don't always need money help, they need care, help in the house, or housing in the institution of social protection. The second question is to include fighters and disabled persons with a social map, i.e. the central register of users of the rights of martial law, which I would like to commend. It is good that both fighters and people with disabilities are more taken care of and that those who have fought for Serbia are given secure access to the rights that society owes them, because many are unable to earn on their own. We expect a fairer social protection system from the social map law of all categories concerned, as well as that the competent ministry will at all times be able to monitor all measures taken and all users of social protection, to control the use of rights and prevent abuses. The law should allow better control of the work of the social work centres that carry out the measures, but also to provide better personnel and technical support to social work centres. There was an unexplained question on the Committee, which is – is there anything in the law that has changed about households that have over 50 acres? Because the law so far has been that they do not have the right to social protection and that not all of these households are equal to the land they own. The SPS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2894	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2895	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Darija Kisic Tepavcevic, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, I believe that previous speakers, seems to me somewhere around ten speakers, if we take into account and authorised promoters, were very thorough in their presentations and explained in detail what this law implies. But I still have to look back and thank you specifically for being comprehensive in your initial presentation, your exposure took me about half an hour, but in those half an hour, you were very constructive and you explained to detail everything that is here and thus made it easier for the citizens who are monitoring this transmission to get closer and better aware of what is going on here. What I, as a People's MP, want to point out today is the difference and everything that anyone has not spoken or spoken about in the extent that I consider necessary, and that is the fact that today and the previous days since the issue of the social map or social card law appeared, how it is properly defined, you suffer attacks, suffer attacks both the Serbian Government and President Aleksandar Vukic, without any argument, evidence or anything that would be better or different to do and suffer it from those people who, when they had an opportunity to do absolutely nothing in that field. The very fact that one of the previous speakers said that this law had been waiting 20 or 30 years for many governments before this, of course, and especially those by 2012, could have done anything on this plan, but they did not. This isn't just about this law. We were a country waiting 30 years to build roads, to build hospitals, homes of health, schools, kindergartens, to move Serbia in a better direction, but ever since the SNS is in power, Serbia is from a country that is constantly waiting for something to become a country that realizes its dreams and dreams, dreams and desires of Serbian citizens. And this law is another one in a series of evidence of that. I don't want to repeat everything that's been said here, I just want to look at some concrete examples of how the people who attack you today represent part of the opposition, represented by Dragan Gilas, as they did in this category as they led the city of Belgrade. Namely, they had a debt and were delayed with social benefits in the city of Belgrade for over a year. So, a year late with those payments. People who needed it and over took a year to wait for that payment. Those debts crossed a five-billion-dollar figure. So five billion dinars were total of those duties. In the past six years, Ms. Natasa Stanisavljevic, who runs the resort, successfully managed to repay all these debts, but to keep the city of Belgrade regularly paying social benefits to all categories. It's something that we have to be proud of and especially point out when you take care of your citizens and take care of every dinar that you have how everything can be achieved. While Dragan Gilas earned 619m euros to his firms, he was late for a year with social contributions, which only shows how incompetent that man was, but also boasting while he was mayor, and many also call him Belgrade's sheriff. It's not the only item where you could see the irresponsibility of the city's leadership back then. You know that children are also the category that we have to take care of the most and the law is going through. Imagine, in Belgrade, 15,000 families were damaged because Dragan Gilas charged them double for kindergartens. In the court of that family and parents have received their rights, the city of Belgrade thus has to pay back four billion dinars that were taken from parents for nothing and the city of Belgrade is paying back these debts today, and in parallel with this we continue to invest both schools and kindergartens. I took Belgrade as a subject for two reasons. First of all, because of the most visible ability, and above all the incompetence of Dragan Gilas and the management of DS, and also because the topic of the city of Belgrade is very close to me, because I am also head of the SNS parliamentary group in the City Assembly. I am giving you this information for the simple reason that citizens who are watching this transmission today would know that the people who are attacking this law when they were able to do something at a lower level, if we take Belgrade as a local self-government, they did nothing, they did nothing to harm you. Not to mention, in 2018, no one mentioned it, but I will have to mention, in 2018, the government adopted this proposal at President Alexander Vukic's initiative to have an incentive for the first child. So for the first child, the family gets 100,000 dinars, for the second child, 10,000 dinars a month for the third child for 12,000 a month for 10 years. This shows how much the government of the Republic of Serbia is taking care of the future next policy of Alexander Vukic, of what is most important, of generations that are just coming and generations to which we leave our country. We can't when we talk about a social map not to look back on how catastrophic privatisations are, here the same colleagues mentioned it, and in their murky shops, and led by DS, more than half a million people lost their jobs, that the average profit then was, the average salary was about 320 euros, that today the average salary was over 510 euros, that the minimum wage was 172 euros, is now over 270 and that we're not talking about the GDP that was down, and in 2019, it's, in our time, 4.2% in plus. All this data clearly shows when you run the country responsibly, when you take care of every dinar as far as our country can progress and as powerful as it can. I'm glad, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, that you took responsibility despite the attacks you suffered while you were, when you had full power and in the full course of the Coronation virus, your engagement in the Crisis Staff and that you didn't stop, you were fighting even harder. I'm glad you're showing strength to fight now, along with all these baseless attacks. I wish you many successes in that. When we talk about both the crisis headquarters and the Coronal virus and last year we showed that our country is ready to respond to all the challenges. The very fact that we've vaccinated over half a million people, that with that vaccination, we continue to show that we're ready for anything. The data that President Aleksandar Vucic published today, and all I want to do is bring them out for citizens who may not have heard it, is the fact that 50,000 Sputnik vaccines arrived today, that we will receive another 50,000 for the revaccination, that by the end of February we will provide another 88,000 Fezer vaccines, and by February 20, between 125,000 and 150,000 Astra zenek vaccines. So these figures are much larger and stronger economically, countries that are ahead of us unimaginable. What's especially looking forward to, I know the citizens were interested, tomorrow, you correct me if I'm wrong, I think we're getting another 500,000 doses of Chinese vaccine. All these results and all that is achieved today by both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic come to the shadows these days for the simple reason why I as a MP, and I believe many of my other colleagues who are going to be discussing today, we cannot remain silent about what has been happening in the past days. Apparently, in one part of the opposition, led by Dragan Gilas, all those threats we talked about in the past weeks, months, I'll be free to say for years, by arresting and breaking this clan last week, they've been wiped out that everything we talked about wasn't a little naive, that nobody invented it, and that there was a real danger for President Alexander Vukic, his safety and the safety of his family. To be honest, I don't think that the threat of his life is less now, the more I think it's even bigger, but what I'm particularly worried about as someone who, let's say, is the behaviour of a part of the opposition, who in every way is trying to relativate the danger that President Alexander Vukic is in. And the statements by Dragan Djilas, this bully, Ljoticevic, former MP Bosko Obradovic, go in that direction that Aleksandar Vukic and his family are equal to some clans, the mafia in Serbia, and thus directly draw their target. Why? So that today, tomorrow someone, if they take seriously, their nebulises, lies, and turn them into claims, someone today, tomorrow, if anyone from the Vukic family were to say – well, he was a part of them. Well, it's not. We need to talk about it clearly in every place. Serbia's Parliament is the highest body in our country. This is where we discuss, we talk about all the topics. This law is very important, especially waiting 30 years, but we also need to discuss this subject. I'll talk about it a lot more tomorrow, but don't blame me because the topic is very serious and the citizens are very upset. If someone who's a fan or represents themselves as a fan has a sniper rifle, which we talked about two years ago, you know it's a real danger. My colleagues and I were talking here and about Chaba Dera's claims in the Hungarian investigation that he had received an offer from two clans to kill President Alexander Vukic. And then the televisions that under Dragan Gilas' direct command tried to be honest with some kind of joke, to make fun of the mockery, and to minimize the importance of such threats. What I'm holding in my hand, I believe that people haven't forgotten, and it wasn't that long ago, and in 2019, a magazine published a picture of President Alexander Vukic, pointed at by a sniper. That was in 2019. In 2019, we talked about it, and everyone was trying to convince us that it was no big deal, that it was an accident. And today, the public feels both appalled and appalled, I'm not an expert in weapons, but one of these or similar snipers was found in the arrest and destruction of this clan. To make Gilas media absurd even bigger and to prove to you everything we've been talking about here months ago, it also shows this cartoon that one of his tabloids, the newspaper, as defined by "Today" published, on which you can see the sniper again pointed at Alexander Vukic. I don't know who he represents here, but it turns out right now that Alexander Wolf is pointing a sniper at himself. These are serious things, this is serious playing with such topics that upset the public and which clearly show that the goal of Dragan Gilas and all the people who are presently in opposition to threats that are realistically reduced to a minimum and debauchery so that Aleksandar Vukic, Danilo Vukic, Milica Vukic, Vukan Vukic or Andrej Vukic, each of the Vukic families becomes a legitimate target. From this place, we have to say that something like that is absolutely unacceptable. It's okay that you blindly wish to return to power, to continue with your enormous wealth, it's your right, you have the right to dream, to dream, but you have no right to play with someone's life in this way. Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, I wish you much happiness and success in further work. I hope that we will have as little need to apply these things to the most vulnerable categories in our society as possible because it will show that we are slowly solving this poverty and we are solving people who are the most vulnerable, but in addition to the desire for success, I want you to remain so brave and consistent in your fight that you are leading to two fronts, because the next policy of President Alexander Vukic, we do not have another country, and we want to make our country even more beautiful and even better for our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2896	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2897	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Tepavcevic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, before I move on to the subject just to resort to my previous colleague's speech and to say that the SDPS provides full support to all state authorities in the fight against organised crime and the mafia. It's our job because we're fighting for a crime-free society, no mafia, for the safety of all our citizens. Now let me refer to the law we're talking about here today. We are here today from both your fellow ministers and fellow MPs heard a lot of details and details about the social card law, but what my main impression is that the social card law, which Serbia has been trying to bring for many years, has been a major step towards eradicating poverty and achieving Serbia's desire to become a society of social justice. For us, Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic, whose day is the party's global day of social justice, is one of the main goals of fighting poverty. What success in this struggle we can achieve and what results we will have will depend on how strong our economy is. Social isolation in any segment requires an economy that will fill the budget from which funds for sick, helpless, old, disabled and other socially endangered categories are allocated. These funds, of course, need to be earned, and without investment in infrastructure, without foreign investment, it is simply not possible, so only a declarative commitment to social justice is a dead letter on paper. The social card bill is a big step in that direction. It should be borne in mind that the social cards Serbia introduces also require large financial resources. That is why it is necessary, as I have emphasized the strong economy that this country certainly can bring out. After all, it was now and at the time of the pandemic when the Serbian economy showed the greatest tenacity and the greatest resistance to the crisis, and above all, thanks to the great inflows of foreign investment. That's not just what we said, and that's what the European Commission admitted in the official report. With this bill, the state has shown its will to scan the problem and to have a real idea of what our population's socioeconomic position is. The Social Card Act includes a single database and the establishment of an information system that will manage these data in order to make money, or social assistance equal to those who need it most. In order for you to see if anyone meets the conditions you need data, i.e. You need an information system. The information system will fully relive and be rounded up in 2022, as it takes time for its production to be efficient and to give the desired effects. This information system will contain in one place all data that will be obtained by crossing different databases from different places and all those who need assistance will be recorded in a unique system and all those who have the right to help, without any application, i.e. without reporting, they'll be able to do that. Everyone will be able to get welfare because the system will recognize him. This law refers to different categories of population, but I will illustrate one case. How, say, that a grandmother from some golden village, from the caves, from the top of the Cablar, or from some New Belgrade block soloist, who can't live off his pension and who can't take advantage of it anymore, how can she know which way he can help. Someone has to recognize her, that she's going from a counter to a counter, from an institution to an institution, so that's impossible. That's what this law decides. It must be recorded, its income must be recorded, its property recorded, all data related to its household members. The system has to recognize people like that. It's this law, the social card law, that solves it. Instead of being stored as different types of data so far in different institutions now, thanks to the new information system, all these data will be able to withdraw and will be able to create a unique database and in this way a person who is in a state of social need will be able to make it faster, easier, more efficient to reach the assistance he has legal right. How important it is to have a good information system has now proved to be at the time of the immunisation and vaccination of the population, when indeed, everything works perfectly and impeccably, where and the greatest critics of the government, and those who are trying to find a grudge realize that the criticism at the expense of vaccination and the organisation of vaccination is a completely missed topic. I think this law, the law on social cards, is coming at the right time, at a time when empathy, solidarity, help to others is the most needed. These are all a couple of exeleans of the value of social democracy and these are the values on which the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's heritage, whose representative I am here, and that is why the parliamentary group of our party will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2898	Thank you. National MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2899	Thank you. The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, the Honorable Minister, the Social Card Act is actually a technical law because it refers to the formation of an electronic register on the socio-economic status of an individual, i.e. the beneficiary of the right in the area of social protection. When we talk about the social card law, we are actually talking about the need to define social policy priorities in the field of social protection and identification of individuals and target groups of rights users. In order to realise this, we need to take a closer look at their social material status, and the necessary precondition for this is to collect and use data and all available sources of state administration on which this status will be determined. So, the social map, in addition to connecting to software solutions managed by the ministry, is linked to data acquisitions with various external registers, which are the Central Population Register, the Register of Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Ministry of Interior, the National Employment Service, the Register of the Tax Administration and the Register of the Republic Geodesy Office. In this way, by networking these registers, the possibility of non-compliance with the data and making one central database, i.e. a register that gives many advantages. What are the advantages of a system like this? I will try to list as many of the advantages they give us for the right to support one of these laws as possible, which we will do in the Voting Day, because social justice is the basic postulate of the Single Serbia policy. So one of the more important advantages is a fairer distribution. Help only goes to those who need it and who meet the conditions. This advantage has been defined thanks to one of the main characteristics of this system, which is proactive. Proactivity aims to reduce exclusion error. Therefore, those persons who have been rejected for some reason, and in the meantime some of the data from the impact on the right in the area of social protection change in favour of that person, this person automatically acquires the right that he will achieve. The other thing is to reduce the error of involvement. All those involved in the right by mistake will be excluded, i.e. based on the changes in the data that arrive in the Register from external registers, and that change leads to a person who had the right to do so more to us, it will automatically lose that right. How does this work? It works in real time, because software itself provides certain notifications, i.e. notices to act as soon as certain changes are observed. It shall be signalled by an appropriate notification to the authority which is territorially competent for persons to verify, receive notification, and, if it finds that it has been established, to take official action in the relevant matter. So the reduction of errors is here inevitability. Another important feature is responsibility and transparency in the work of the administration. When the system makes the notification, i.e. Notice, it must be handled and the record of its resolution is automatically delivered, so who is, in what way and when it is resolved. Any use of data from the Register of Social Cards by officials remains recorded, leading to greater responsibility for those same persons and transparency of their work. The third essential feature is to reduce and prevent abuse. Once such data information is reduced the possibility of abuses as required by applicants, so the official staff he has handled correctly, because these data are visible, and if there is a discrepancy of data they are rapidly resolved. Therefore, no longer will the right depend upon the good will of him who prescribes it, nor will the right do so to the one who does not meet the requirements for that right. In addition to these benefits provided by the social cards, there are even easier to achieve the rights of users themselves and better efficiency in the work of the administration, which is seen through simplifications of the administrative process, where both time and money are saved. Finally, I would say that, in addition to these facts, easily seen advantages, social maps also provide support for the creation of social policy and contribute to a better understanding of the socio-economic status of part of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2900	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2901	Thank you. Dear Madam Ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, say that rich and happy society is not made up of rich individuals, but rather a society where most citizens feel economically secure and protected and trust their country that at the moment of the great trouble of life that threatens its existence will not leave it without support. It is a model of a socially just state benefiting the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will also pass this proposed law today. The Social Card Act in a completely new way regulates access issues for social protection services. I agree that it was high time to fill in this empty legal space and that this lack of a united digital database of relevant data on all users of services and social protection rights is overcome. Its most important goal is to provide a fair social protection system, aimed primarily at protecting the most vulnerable citizens and groups and those who need organised state support in order to be able to live with dignity and beyond the poverty threshold. In that sense, praise for the minister and your team who came to the Assembly with a bill like this, and he is continuity, somewhere in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia we had a hint of this law and it is good that we came quickly to the realization of the same. However, I will draw attention to another aspect of social protection, as social protection is not only material support for citizens, however necessary, but also other measures and other categories of users. I will refer to the question of the protection of families and children, first of all in the social protection system as such, as well as to other aspects of social policy that are important for a healthy family, because without a healthy family, we definitely don't have a healthy society, and we don't have a well-being that I'm sure we all strive for. The goal which Serbia is seeking, which is the goal of most citizens living well, is achieved first by ensuring the right to work. As much as the pressure on the ministry I believe was great even before you came to the head of the ministry, it would be a sin not to say that your colleagues before you have actually done their work to the extent possible and that you have not waited for an easy task, that you have a responsibility and a difficult time in front of you, because we have a year that is not easy, which carries the consequences of both the Kovid 19 and the endangered human population, the minority populations, which are often those who are just burdening the budget, but, according to the planned budget, is a development policy and is as many jobs as possible and will be available to the citizens and it will actually reduce these social differences and prevent poverty. In fact, it will reduce the pressure on the social protection sector, so that as the only prevention for poverty is work and we must support the development policy that Serbia's leadership is leading at the moment. Another important question I want to point out is childcare and family protection with children. There is a legislative framework whose measures are a kind of impulse to population policy, i.e. pro-active measures of population policy. Why am I pointing out population policy? Because without concern for the future of the population, there is no concern for the future of the state, no population, no state, no development. As much as we have ambition and are determined to build roads and bridges, they are necessary and important, but what we primarily have to build is a healthy society and a healthy family and to work on population policy because all of this together needs to be inherited by our children and their children. Today are opportunities different, but that certainly doesn't mean that we need to make peace with our dying more than we are born. All measures of population policy are important in this regard. We will encourage young people to form families and give birth to children, but we must encourage all of those categories that, under some circumstances, have lost their jobs, as a consequence of life's tragedies that are happening, have come to a phase of poverty, to rise once again from some of their own difficult, if you want and mental conditions, and to devote themselves to their development and development of their children. The key role, I would say, is that there are social services here, and we just have to be a society, except by this law we're really going to make it easier for everyone who needs to make decisions about who or whether they deserve social assistance as such, and we have to help those who have a problem, and one of my colleagues is talking about it, which is that they live on welfare and they want to maybe get somewhere over the problem they're in and that led them to the phase that they're dependent on how much help they're going to receive from the state. On the other hand, we can't stay silent in front of the fact that the increase in domestic violence, whether it's violence against women, violence against children, it doesn't matter, maybe even this pandemic has raised the degree of violence we face, and there is somewhere, I'm going to let myself say, maybe the role of social workers is very important. It is important that we recognize the essence of the problem, that we do not treat them as patterns. Every tragedy is a story to itself and it has shown practice somewhere. I don't think that anyone would get me wrong, this isn't a criticism of the work of the social work centre, it's just work, I guess it's not easy for them to function now, and it may not be very easy for them to be the only one to decide who is or is wrong, but I appeal to everything we've done and try to improve it, and that's usually the co-operation between the judiciary, the police and the social workers, first of all, in order to protect children who are often victims of violence in one way or another, and even violence against women, and therefore we usually have children who are permanently traumatized, we have women who may be prevented from continuing their own existence, but we also have examples of men who, unfortunately, are victims of abuse in no small number of cases. Why am I saying all this? Because we have to be socially responsible for all the problems that are not as a state, I would say as Europe, and even as a world, we have in 2020 and 2021. Whenever there's uncertainty, there's a way to grow with it, and there's those problems that we think of the most. What I'm going to praise is the most promising measure that refers to an increase in the age limit for an out-of-body fertilisation attempt to 43 years of life. I really think we needed that. Attention should also be paid to families with more children. I know it's a sword with two blades, and that's what we talked about when we changed some laws before this. Either way, in front of you as a ministry or an easy task, but I'm sure you'll answer that or at least I have confidence in you because, when it comes to you, I really remember that first picture that came up when Kovid-19 showed up. Therefore, there is a wide range of measures that can be applied in the sector of social and child and martial law sector to cover all categories of people in need of support from the state. The responsibility of the state is that all needs and all categories recognize and respond to their needs because their relationship with children, families, the powerless, the old, tells the poor about how much we are human society. This law, I hope, will raise the scale and may not be burning and that, I guess from the Socialist position, I have the right to do so, we have rarely had situations in the past that social categories have been misused for political purposes. It may be our job never to repeat such situations to us again, but to make of such people people who will be able to work and earn for themselves, their children and their descendants. In the day to vote, MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia will certainly be pleased to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2902	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2903	Thank you. Before explaining the benefits for Serbian citizens from the introduction of social maps, I must remind myself that digitalisation is a very high place on the agendas of the world's most developed countries and that representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have collaborated on this plan with the Republic of Finland, with the Kingdom of Denmark, but also with other countries that have the best and most developed systems of social protection, but also established centralised systems for services in the public sector. How important we see just one step towards digitisation these days, and on a concrete case, in the process of immunisation of the Serbian population, in the case of vaccination applications through the e-Government portal. The vaccination application is carried out in a few minutes and it is online from anywhere at any time and, in addition to getting the vaccine, it is one of the main reasons for an effective organisation. However, there are countries that, of course, had vaccines, which failed to organise and vaccinate the population in the right way. The digitalisation that the Serbian government has cited as one of the priorities has shown on the case that I have cited how important it is. We need to speed up digitisation, in all areas, in order to meet the standards of the most developed countries that we seek. With the introduction of the social map, we go one more step forward, when it comes to the digitisation and modernisation of the state administration and are part of the programme for the development of electronic administration in the Republic of Serbia from 2020 to 2022, and this will lead to a reduction of red tape and all those unnecessary papers. This is also achieved by networking a large number of different institutions such as the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Interior, the Tax Administration, the Katastra immovableity, and all that I mentioned as the ultimate goal is the full introduction of an electronic administration in Serbia. The proposal of the Social Card Act, which is on the agenda today, concerns the establishment of an electronic register on the socio-economic status of an individual, i.e. the beneficiary of a social protection right aimed at forming a single and centralised record. In this way, by keeping such records, we create conditions for these rights to achieve a greater number of users, but to prevent abuses, to strengthen control when it comes to spending funds from the budget, but of course to make these funds more fair. Helping the most vulnerable populations will certainly be more accessible, as citizens in the most difficult economic situation will be the most visible system, which is only a prerequisite for timely and effective exercise of the right to the necessary support. The biggest lack of an existing system is that the competent ministry had no insight into the givings made at the site, as the existing information support is partial and organised through several separate information continents. Also, payments for each right are calculated individually and it is difficult to verify how many total incomes are based on different basics. This will introduce the possibility of crossing data, of joining them into a single system. I will give a concrete example, based on which it will be much clearer to all how significant this law is and what changes it will bring. Social map data, i.e. data on social security users, will be available to the Emergency Sector following the elemental accidents. If there was such a record of the floods that took place in Serbia in 2014, it would have made it much easier and faster to help the most vulnerable, and they would certainly be a priority. The Social Card Act brings benefits to both citizens and the state, simplifying the procedure for the exercise of certain rights, taking into account the proper allocation of funds to which social protection users are entitled and the adoption of this law is the first step. Of course, it is followed by the creation of sublegal acts and the end of an information system that would support all of this. I will certainly support this law, and I have already stated the reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2904	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2905	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, dear fellow MPs, today we are talking about a bill on the social map. The need for the introduction of social cards and the adoption of a new law that regulated these issues was contained in the June 2017 exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and was presented as one of the priorities in the current government just over three months ago. The purpose of the social map is to achieve the social rights of citizens that are measured by their socio-economic status, as well as to prevent possible abuses. The existence of this unique, centralized record should make it easier for the most vulnerable to go to financial and any other aid, by enabling fairer distribution and by providing social assistance to those users who really need it most. After the adoption of this law, there is a link between the social card register and the relevant system of state administration and local self-government institutions, which will provide one more comprehensive insight and access to all of this. According to the original draft of the law, there is a record of domestic violence. As a woman and a socialist, I am particularly pleased that the introduction of a social map will provide an opportunity for a more dignified, more decent life for women who are victims of violence. The Socialist Party of Serbia has always advocated active and fair social policy measures, which will do in the future. Social policy is, in fact, the widest space in which the justice of a society and the care of society for the socially endangered, both groups and individuals can be assessed. Social policy includes a broad range of measures, but also a measure of policies that directly affect the socio-economic status of citizens, from population policy, education policy, through youth employment, housing policy, to social protection as part of the social policy of the state. I would like to mention above all some of the measures resulting from this and the previous government, which is certainly the project "My First Salary", which was implemented in the second half of the year, which is behind us, and it is a form of help for the state to hire young people who have just graduated from high school and college. As it is usually the most difficult to find the first job, the state wanted to help young people find employment and gain practice. So it's a great project that is directly directed at helping young people and the state simply wanted to create an environment for anyone who wants to work to get that chance. Also important is investment in scientific and technological parks in Belgrade, Nis, the city from which I come, Novi Sad and a few other cities in Serbia, all with the aim of providing opportunities for young people to find employment and, most importantly, stay in Serbia. As a young person, I want to draw attention to another youth problem that certainly affects the motivation of young people to form families and create offspring, which is a housing problem, because housing policy is part of the overall social policy and we are all aware that a large number of young people live as tenants, and even more than half of them live in the community with parents. You will agree that living in the community is not particularly stimulating for family formation and staying in the country. It is very important to realise this country's intention to allow young people to get apartments under the most favourable conditions, as it is possible for security forces, i.e. The police and the military. I believe that this measure would be extremely stimulating and I believe that the state in this way would contribute to stopping young people from leaving and increasing the birth rate, because without a young and working-age population there can be no progress of any society. I also believe that these measures, such as prevention measures, would contribute to both the most intelligent movements and the reduction of the migration of experts and young people who, once they leave, find it difficult to return. With the support of the legislation's solutions to provide a more socially fair model of implementing the measure, I would like to say that the SPS will support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2906	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Milenko Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2907	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected Minister Kisic Tepavcevic, I must say in the beginning that I feel a little bit uncomfortable that today we are talking about a subject that is not important of course, but it is so businessly arranged, and I am sorry that we do not have a chance to look a little more at what is happening around us, and what President Vukic announced some time ago, and this is a decisive conflict of the state with the mafia in Serbia and hitting a mallet in the head of the largest mobster in this country, people who have committed inconceivable crimes, but also a challenge to the threat of the state and the president by a part of the former opposition, or a former regime, which every opportunity takes advantage of giving political support for what some people are doing in some other areas of life, this is a pure crime. I, when it comes to this law, Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, would first congratulate you on your courage. You are engaged in something that can be freely called cleaning Augie's stables. This is an area where problems are so crowded that it's a very big question of how and how we're going to get out of all these problems, and we have to get out, because if things continue the way they do today, it's not going to be good for the state or for the users that some people really expect and need. They say there are several important steps in eradicating poverty, that it is employment, that it is only employment, that it is education. This country has already worked and achieved serious results in all these areas. So, I would remind myself that the unemployment rate in Serbia was 24.1%, that it was down to 7.3%, and that even today, when we are actually fighting to preserve jobs, not just for new employment, but also for new investors, new investments, new factories and new jobs, so on the task of increasing employment and preserving the employment rate in Serbia. That is why the vaccine that is taking place in Serbia is important. That's why it's important how Aleksandar Vucic fought the world market for Serbia to get vaccines, because we've had the chance to see some other politicians, specifically Dragan Gilas, who said we're not going to get any vaccines like citizens, I don't know, Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, etc., and today we see that these citizens are not getting any vaccines and that this man, by some accident in power today, would have no vaccine. That is why it is important to support what Aleksandar Vucic is doing, because it is not only and it is most important, of course, to preserve the lives of citizens and the health of citizens, but also to preserve our economy, preserve jobs and thus fight to reduce poverty in Serbia. That's why roads are being built, that's why highways are being built, so fast roads are being built so investors can have better communication and invest more easily in certain areas. We're talking today about a factory being built, that Jinsi works in Krupanj. We're talking about today that the factory is open in Vladica's Han, we're not talking about the area between Novi Sad and Belgrade anymore, so here we are opening factories. Well, there shouldn't be a Bismark to open factories. You have, I don't know, two highways passing by. Well, that's where everyone wants to open the factory. We are talking today that factories are opening up and poverty is reducing in areas that are not on Corridor 10 or the new Corridor 11. When it comes to employment and today, the Development Fund's competitions are taking place, the young people's business ministries that want to open their companies, open their companies and work, and we work on it. As far as education is concerned, we intend to fully focus our education on the dual education system. So, that young people, that students learn something to do while they go to school, that when they finish school they have some kind of concrete knowledge that they can apply. In some previous period, unfortunately, we've come to the point where it's become a shame to be a craftsman, that parents of their children, in their best intentions, suggest that they finish any college, it doesn't matter if he's like this or what he can do, get a job in some administration somewhere, and get a pension there. He'll have less pay than to work as a craftsman of any kind. It's not a parent's job to have a child, I say it as a parent, it's not my job as a parent to have my child educated or highly educated, it's my job to make my child a good man, to live off his work, to be honest, educated, cultural. It's a parent's job, not to make a child highly educated at all costs. We have changed some things here, and therefore I want to support both this insistence and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all the president, to place dual education as an important instrument for reducing unemployment and reducing the poverty that we are talking about. Then it comes to the order of the law that is before us today. So, all those who fail to cope with this system, who have certain problems, are helped by the state. That's what this is really about, and it's a logical step in this whole story, but it's important to say that this is not an isolated step, that this is not an independent step that stands somewhere in the air, but a step that stands in line with other steps that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking. It's important to go. There are certain criticisms concerning the law. Life is what will tell you how and in which direction you change the law, how and in which direction you bring some changes, some changes, how, how to make this work even better. It's important, it's extremely important that the distribution of this assistance be fair. So, we know, especially in some, here I can speak in examples from the city where I live, in kickinda, that people come for social aid in BMW German plates, park it 100 meters away and then walk around to pick up what they have. Believe it or not, someone's gonna say I'm a cartoon, someone's gonna say I'm exaggerating, I'm telling you the truth. It sends a bad message, loses confidence in the state, because the man who needs this help to be told – wait, if this works, what's going on here? That's why it's important to support what you're doing today, to bring the final order into it. Why hasn't this been here in front of the MPs for 30 years, 20 years? Because no one cared. Because MPs and government were concerned with how to write laws to tycoons to steal in accordance with the law. They didn't care about the people, they didn't care about those who had nothing to live on. It's important that the tycoon can buy something else that this people created, kidnap from this state, pay nothing, but it doesn't go to jail tomorrow. That's what MPs used to do, not to work for the people, but for the tycoons. That is why for the first time today we can speak from the arrival of Alexander Vukic to the Serbian government to the day of today, that the people of Serbia also have the authority of the president who is on his side, who understands him and who is fighting for him. This is proof of that. This is proof that I'm right. This is proof that we continue to fight both by employment and by any other means that people in Serbia live better. That's why it's important for us to have this law passed. That's why it's important for this law to come into force and start applying itself, to clear things up a little bit, to know who's who and who can't get welfare and help from the state. I fully agree with that rule that it is better that the hundred who do not need to be given are given without the one who should not be released. Let's bring it down to some normal measures and some decent measures, so we don't bring things into cartoons. We don't have unlimited resources. It is impossible that after the period from 2008 to 2012, when you had 500 thousand cancellations, when the economy was destroyed, the private sector was completely destroyed, you have unlimited resources in the state, so you will share the right needs and needs of the one who needs it. It's a shame some people get welfare and spend it for one afternoon. One of them's been living for a month. We have to fight for the number of users to be reduced above all by these measures that we are working on, and that those who get it thanks to those who are not real social help users, we come to the point that we can also increase the resources of those who get it. That's what the point is. So it's important that we support this, so it's important that we vote this out, and I'm certainly glad that I'm going to be able to support the law that you've proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2908	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dr. Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2909	Dear President, I would like to point out that today's topic is the proposal for a bill on the social map of social justice and social equality. The idea of social justice is a socialist idea, and as our president, Ivica Dacic, says, is an integral part of the genetic code of the SPS. The Socialist Party of Serbia is a party relying on two pillars, and one of these pillars is a pillar of social justice, and the other is a pillar of national and state interest. In all well-developed countries, which we hope to pursue, the development of the economy must also monitor the development of social rights, i.e. the development of all segments of social policy and social protection as its segment. An efficient social protection system should be constantly adapted to meet the changed and different needs of citizens under new social economic circumstances, i.e. to support vulnerable and marginalised individuals and groups in need of organised assistance from communities and states. As a significant measure of social protection, state social contributions should help those who are in a state of social need to define the law, which is individuals and families without any income or whose incomes are below the set minimum by providing them with financial assistance as much as possible to make life easier. In this way, citizens, especially families who face different life difficulties, which cause difficult material conditions, are able to live with the social support of the state with more dignity and awareness that the state takes care of them and their needs, that they are not left to themselves and to poverty. In short, social protection is one of the areas of the Constitution of guaranteed human rights, the work of public interest and is highly sensitive by character. In fact, the Social Card Act is a technical law, as it refers to the establishment of a single electronic register on the social economic status of an individual, i.e. the user of social protection services. It shall contain accurate and updated data on all relevant facts from the impact on the exercise of rights and social protection. The social map also includes data on connected persons. In addition to connecting internal systems within the Ministry, it is also necessary to connect with external systems, i.e. other national authorities' databases, because of possible administrative procedures conducted in the social protection system. An extremely good legal solution is that the social map will contain data on social security users who have acquired this right because they have been hit hard by various elemental disasters such as floods, slides, snowfalls, fires, earthquakes and others. For the first time, these individuals are now legally recognized as persons in a state of social need. In this respect, it is important that there is systematicised all data of interest for the system, for risk management of elementary and other disasters. The Social Card Act should also achieve a second objective, which is the rational use of budgetary resources, i.e. to provide for a fairer distribution of social services to the most vulnerable categories of the population. Citizens in the most difficult economic situation will be visible in the system and achieve a faster and simpler right to the necessary support. What I would underline is helping the family society survive as a whole by providing economic security. The most important thing is for the children to stay in their natural environment, i.e. family. Family is a basic social unit and only a strong family can provide emotional, physical and economic security to its members. Also, this basic cell of society needs to be protected from domestic violence and reduced to zero tolerance and even stronger state mechanisms. One word, we have to do everything we can to support the family and give it as a society of wind in the back. As someone said, I quote - there is no family for society, but society for family, finished quote. At the very end, with all the praise for the proposal of a good law, I would point out one well-intentioned remark that I have been shown by employees in social protection institutions that the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs is considering the renewal of professional staff in these institutions which is now far below the optimal level according to the staff plan on the number of residents and users. I note that the SPS Parliamentary Group will support this good bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2910	I thank Dr. Vesni Ivkovic. The word has the deputy head of the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2911	I thank the esteemed Vice President. Dear Minister Kisic Tepavcevic with his associates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, respected citizens of Serbia, above all, I would like to thank the ministry proposed by this law on a really long-awaited law that has arrived in the Assembly as a really almost complete proposal, regardless of what, as any law at some point, is likely, in accordance with a time that practically eats every law until the end, to suffer certain changes, but as it really is, long expected, it is a big step and thank you for the comprehensive representation of the law. You have encouraged a clear discussion right here in parliament among MPs and I hope that indeed for our citizens, especially the users of social assistance today, it will be clearer what this law means. So the fairer distribution is certainly one of the benefits that will be practically won and result from the application of this law because social justice in a well-organized state is not something we cannot achieve. Of course this is the first step and that the SNS here at the MP's club has indeed recognized this quality debate and we see that this is one of the valuable steps in the fight against poverty. Although it is actually a technical law that will make a virtually one electronic register and allow you in the ministry to look at the practical needs of each individual, it is one seriousness, I say, after so much time because it is a sentence that has been heard here many times today that after almost a dozen years we have received a law that has long been announced and it is quite certain that the responsible state of Serbia headed by Serbian President Alexander Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is building a system in which each individual's needs will be recognised. In fact, to really value absolutely and matter to us every need of an individual we have shown many times in the previous period, a very short period. Not to get any further into everything the Government has done, and the President of the Republic can only look back at the latest developments concerning the fight against the epidemic of the Coronal Virus where we have really counted all the applauses of the practical world, where we have not only been able to show that we can be the best in the organization, but we are the best in what is now crucial and most important in this fight, and this is the acquisition of vaccines, where Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, as my colleague Jovanov said just a moment and said, indeed with his authority which he built with international reputation, he managed to simply acquire, and we are the first and only one in the world absolutely, three vaccines and our citizens can indeed choose the vaccine according to his will. I also think it is very important to mention that we are also half the number of people vaccinated in Europe, and we certainly hold that place firmly and that we are at the height of that list and when it comes to the world, and we are certainly not going to stop at it, we are not going to stop but we will absolutely keep that progress in the future and try to immunize the largest part of our population as soon as possible, and the news that has arrived today from the President of the Republic, which is that the next 500 thousand doses of the Chinese vaccine will arrive tomorrow. So, at no point in time since we are now revoking our population will not be left without any possibility of re-applying, re-vaccinating, or through this system which is practically praised as the best in the world we will succeed in a very short period of time to reach a collective immunity that actually weighs everyone in this trouble. We are also serious about building a system in which an individual will be protected not only in health, but also in every other way, and especially when it comes to the security of citizens, we have shown this very clearly in the previous days when we had a strong, precise deal with mob groups that threatened Serbia's security. What is really something at this point, which is also the subject of the investigation, threatened both President Alexander Vukic's life and safety. However, although I say this is one battle that is quite certain of a long-planned operation, it must ultimately be comprehensive. What do I mean? I want to really decidently explain it here. I mean precisely those who have actually led to the attack on the security of the President of the Republic, whoever it is, in this case is Alexander Vukic, but also on members of his family, with constant criminalisation, so it's not something that lasts a month, two, it lasts years back and it's placed by the former regime. In particular, Dragan Gilas, as an idea creator of each of the imaginary affairs of the crime of the president, his brother Andrej Vukic and Daniel Vukic, to the one who is spokeswoman and who is enough, cannot say that this is courage, it is in my opinion crazyness, someone who can make up a bunch of lies and that he really presents his almost non-existent cheek if possible even more, that is Marinika Tepic, who is constantly along with certain representatives of the opposition, who has managed to invent an affair on a daily basis and in this way to present the president of Serbia, I also say to members of his family as legitimate targets who, in these circumstances, really cannot imagine what we could expect when we are with one of the criminals, or a criminal group in the search, found sniper weapons. Not only that, we've also seen footage of them having and doing exercises to make sure they make the best and efficient use of that weapon, so they've even found the executor. We just have to ask ourselves, and it doesn't take much to ask, because the answer really all of Serbia knows, and we know here, too, to whom that sniper was actually meant. And that's where all the danger lies. I think it was those who first went to defend those criminals when they were arrested, so you have one organized mob group that is a threat to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, wherever it is found, that we have seen that there are beastly torture, beastly murder, robbery and various other criminal acts, that you have, of course, the praise of every normal man. No, you only in Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic have someone who found himself standing up first and acting as a lawyer to each of the members of this criminal group. We wonder why, we ask ourselves, and perhaps now it becomes clearer when the answer to this question can be directed to the public of Serbia that it may now become more clear what the "Jovanjica" affair is, why are millions of other fictional affairs that have gone down almost daily? Were they some kind of distraction so that we didn't know what was really going on, and we saw that neither Dragan Djilas nor Marinika Tepic's society was criminally new. I'll remind you, I'd be very happy to remind you that I don't think this is public enough, not enough times, not enough times spoken of on this subject. Why and how is it possible that Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic have made an almost family album with all the biggest criminals in Serbia? Wait, it's impossible they took pictures like this. I wish I could show you all these pictures at once, but I can't, so I'll take one at a time. Is it realistic that Dragan Gilas comes across a criminal right on the street at any moment? I understand that the honest world bypasses him, I understand that every honest man will cry out to him – thieves and go away, tell him how frustrated he thinks about his politics and his, but how he's always looking for exactly that's what he says, some of the criminals. It's part of it, as far as I could understand my relatives. How come he's always in their company? I'm sure there are some common jobs here. Joint business that now comes into focus when this criminal group is arrested and is heard from public information that some of them, in particular Marinika Tepic, may have some connection with certain members of this mob group? So, how come Dragan Gilas is in Milutin Bakic's company, who was arrested with 66kg of marijuana? This is the man who's the chairman of the municipal board of Kursumli. How is it possible that Gilas accidentally ran into him? Or maybe in some business combination of them, he calculated it to be good when he's running his business, to run his party. Or, let's say, this case is as Gilas says - a meeting with the Japanese government. What does this picture associate you with? This is a member of the Earth Clan. A member of the Zemun Clan, who Dragan Gilas with this smile on his face, friendly, because this is obviously not about random passersby and people who don't know each other, is being placed right in the context of 2003, when these people, and you now choose which one of these two, killed their own prime minister. How come Dragan Gilas always finds a place to take a picture next to a criminal? But anyway, I'll tell you one thing. To examine this kind of connection between Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic is crucial, not only for the sake of this situation in which we have today an arrested criminal group who tried to assassinate this sniper on an important person, but in the context of the fact that these people tend to take power again, threatening precisely the day D after the election that would mean kidnapping of the legitimately elected people, which is what Dragan Dilas promises the day after the elections, whenever they are and it is already very open and clear. I wonder if maybe these people will be part of that scenario? Are we going to allow and look at the same scenarios as we saw this summer, when we are under the pretext of some demonstrations against the measures brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Crisis Headquarters, to protect the health and lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have the junta of Dilas' listeners and Marinika Tepic, because later I will look back on the character and work of Marinika Tepic and her connection with the criminal circles. Is this the picture that's waiting for us the day after the election? Is this a picture that Dragan Gilas promises today? Is this the picture he's going to show the Europarliamentaries and try to explain that this isn't his handiwork? I don't think that's gonna work, but we'll see. So I ask the authorities that this fight really be consistent and comprehensive in order to really prevent us from making a legitimate target out of the president of the country in the future, as Marinika Tepic does every day and as she tried to come to Panchevo today to make a street show, a street conference for journalists, because I don't know what it looks like anymore, but it's one of those who complains about being forced out of Pancheva, because she was threatened with security. My dear colleagues, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am Panchevka. Unlike some, I was born in this Pančevo and I know very well my city and Marinika Tepic when she says – Pančevo is my hometown, lying to you, because Marinika Tepic was not born in Pančevo, but anyway. We are a Banatian place, we are very friendly, friendly and whoever says he is from Pančevo and that Pančevo is his, which Mika Antić – Pančevo said when you come back, he is welcome. But what I can't say to this politician either, I don't know how to name politics in this way, and I don't want to, whenever Marinika Tepic intends to come to Panchevo, and she didn't leave Pancheva because she was threatened with security, but because, two reasons, she found a much better and more comfortable way to live, and one of the reasons is a luxurious apartment she bought in Novi Sad, almost the size of an ara, located in the very center of Novi Sad, where she decided it was time to live according to how much she earns. You can think of a way and that's a great question, how Marinika Tepic earned an apartment of over 100 square meters in Novi Sad. So, she left for a more comfortable and luxurious life, so that we understand each other right away. It's something else that people and the people of Panchev experience on the street. I always say goodbye to my neighborhood when I pass my city, talk to older citizens who always need help, so if not help, then just talk. We have just had in action today, seen how Marinika Tepic is welcomed, as she says in her hometown. This is one of the pictures of her last visit to the White Church. Then she's welcomed with shouts, thief, thief. Today, the citizens of Pančeva who gathered, because the conference was held in the very center of the city, welcomed by shouts – tycoon, shovel, and everything else they said, is really not a place in this house, nor a nice, or cultural saying, but certainly it is something that reflects the picture of Marinika Tepic and represents the real reason why Marinika Tepic cannot live in Pančevo. Because we know her very well, because we understand how she stole the country's budget, while representing us citizens of Panchev in the province government as a minister in charge of sports and youth. I thought that if there was a little face left in Marinika Tepic, she would come to Panchevo today, as she came in front of the SNS headquarters, at least apologize to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to you, Madam Minister, because you were a member of the Crisis Staff and you were really at the head of the fight against this epidemic and this way you managed to endure this fight and everything you managed to endure in a very short public appearance. Thank you for that. I thank you on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we encourage you and you have our full support to continue this fight as bravely as before. So, I really thought that Marinika Tepic would apologize today, that at least in the name of Dragan Dilas, who we saw yesterday was standing in line to receive a Russian vaccine. The same Dragan Gilas, who wrote to the EU to appeal to the Republic of Serbia that he could not obtain vaccines, how we are incompetent, how no one will give us vaccines, that because of the policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, then the president obtained vaccine contingents that no one in the world has been able to obtain, so we are commended by the whole world, so commend us Angela Merkel, and in every important world magazine, small Serbia boasts with results, many results. One of them is immunisation, the other not less important is GDP growth and economic progress. One Serbia will be praised, and Dragan Gilas, after all he has said, stands in line in the same Serbia where Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the crisis staff who criticised it, organised this particular vaccine, and in that order, of course, the comment after that was very quickly, effectively obtained his vaccine. I want to say this way to all other citizens – come, receive the vaccine. Of course, be healthy, we aim to take care of the safety and health of every citizen no matter what they think, what they're doing, the vaccine is a civilization fluid. I expected that Marinika Tepic, in addition today, would apologize for all the unfounded and schizophrenic propaganda of crime that spread about the president of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic and his brother Andrej Vukic, Danil Vukic's son, and even the three-year-old Vukan, who was mentioned very often without any shame. That she'd apologize for any attempt at a coup she'd planned with her boss she'd normally work for. I am truly grateful to my colleague Biljana Pantic Piliji who directly asked Mrs Tepic who she works for. Because it is not such a minor question, perhaps to someone, but for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is very important where Marinika Tepic works. Marinika Tepic works in the Darekt Media for Dragan Dilas. He works at his company. So, Marinika Tepic is practically someone who executes the order of Dragan Dilas. I thought she might apologize for the drug connection, that every mother who unfortunately lost her child to drug consumption, because she was the one who was in public space and, as she was present, would be seen, photographed, but not only that, but worked with different drug lords for years. One of them, who was asked today by the citizens of Panchev, is Novak Filipovic. Unfortunately, citizens did not get a response from Marinika Tepic. It's the same Novak Filipovic who was found with 6.6kg of marijuana, with unauthorized ammunition. The same Novak Filipovic, from whom Marinika Tepic, as her first associate, asked to move journalist Mic Milakov out of Pančevo, asked. I thought he might dare to apologize for what I mentioned at the very beginning, and what really leads the citizens of Pancheva to this revolt that was felt every time they face-to-face with Marinika Tepic, which is stealing the circuit budget. That he would apologize on behalf of his money that he had come in suspicious ways, sought his way to Marinika's first associates. He said he'd apologize for the banana shorts that robbed the country's budget. That she would apologize for the project that was named after him – "Sex for beginners", which led her, and on the basis of which millions merged, poured into the pockets of her party friends, her party colleagues for years. We know almost certainly that the money from this project, amounting to 6.7 million, is the renovated house of her party colleague at the time, do not ask me which one, because the defacto is the hardest to cope with when, in which year, Marinika was in which party, but his name is Dusan Jakovljevic. Is she going to apologize for giving the money to the concrete clubs in some leagues? Will she apologize for allocating a million dinars to Novak Filipovic for the non-permanent gym and fitness club from the province budget, from the pockets of the citizens of Panchev and AP Vojvodina? Will she apologize for evicting the National Council of Roma from the premises that were rightly assigned to them in Panchev? Will she apologize for having lied to the citizens of Panchev countless and a million times, trying to invent an affair that would criminalise the president of the Republic of Serbia, which would lead to the delusion of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who practically led the president of Serbia along with Dragan Gilas, along with their media? I think that the apology I may expect will never reach us, but we don't need Marinika Tepic to apologize, she should first of all apologize for her policy, apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have long understood the full value of her policy, have understood everything that is, they saw ultimately at work everything that Marinika Tepic was doing during her political career of flying from one party to another. Therefore, I think we will never get this apology, but quite certainly what we want is a court that is the most impediment, which is the citizens' court in the elections, and frankly I am sure that as this time they were hiding behind the words – a boycott, quite certainly the next time, that is, in the next election things will come out, and it will be very and very clear in what way the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have on Marinika Tepic and on Dragan Dilas, but also on all the affairs that relate to their names, and ultimately on this family album with drug dealers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2912	Thank you. Next on the list of speakers is National MP Svetlana Miljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2913	Dear President-in-Office, respected Ms. Kisic Tepavcevic, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today before us a debate on the proposal for a law on the social map, a law that represents an important step for the Republic of Serbia in terms of social policy and social protection and the law that the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, has adopted in her exhibition in 2017. The social map of a country by its content and character represents a multidisciplinary and statistical survey whose importance is to develop, plan and take social policy and social protection measures. The objective of the adoption of the social card law is to establish a mechanism for a more rational and fair distribution of funds intended for social protection through the existence of an electronic database, i.e. an information system that will contain accurate and up-to-date data on the socio-economic status of the individual and related persons. Benefits that are achieved through the adoption of social card laws represent the harmonisation of data used in social protection procedures, then, faster response in case of change of some data, i.e. some parameters of the socio-economic status of the individual or associated persons, then, a fairer distribution of social assistance, a reduction of abuse and what the minister just pointed out is the proactiveity of defining and creating social policy. Benefit is also monitoring the social protection measures of a country. In order for this law to come into force, and by adopting this Assembly and starting with its implementation on 1 March 2022, it was necessary to build an information system, i.e. a social card register. After that, legal regulations follow, i.e. the adoption of the social card law. The social map of the individual and associated persons will contain information on family, educational, property, employment status and individual health status, if it is relevant for the exercise of rights in the field of social protection. These data will be easily available, given the system that we will have, where all data will be pooled and where every social protection institution, i.e. the social protection centre, will be able to access in an easy and simple way, having information about each individual so that they can exercise their rights, and the networking between the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs with other ministries and other authorities of the state administration, or local self-government. In line with the best positive examples from world practice, and according to the Danish model that has the best social map, Serbia will enable citizens in the most difficult socio-economic situation to be more visible in society in order to be timely, efficient and transparent in order to achieve their social protection rights, i.e. the right to the necessary support. The adoption of this bill on the social map through which the social needs of residents will be monitored and to ensure a fairer distribution of funds allocated from the budget for these purposes is the continuation of the strong policy mechanism of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on zero tolerance towards abuses and firm intentions for sensitive categories of residents to receive this assistance, regardless of whether they know that this assistance belongs to them. Dear Minister, knowing and following your work back years, not only in the field of epidemiology and public health and population policy, what we can find here and what Serbia's citizens will be proud of when this system is implemented, and knowing how you approach each task and every job, I have no doubt that Serbia in Southeast Europe will have the best social map. As an SNS MP, namely the SNS parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – To our children", I will support this law in the day of voting, as well as my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2914	I thank the People's MP Svetlana Milijac. The next word comes from MP Gojko Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2915	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order to make social protection rights and services more effective today, we have a proposal for a bill on the social map, which will certainly contribute to the improvement of the situation in the area of social protection. The state will have a better insight into citizens' revenues by creating social cards and thus the distribution of funds will be much fairer. Citizens will therefore not have to go around ten tents to exercise their right to, for example, a children's allowance or any other social protection rights, as any change in property and social status will be automatically updated. Since I come from Novi Sad, I am proud to say that the city of Novi Sad, in view of the economic strengthening of the city, singles out significant funds from the budget for improving services for vulnerable and sensitive categories of population, thus providing assistance and support to those who really need it most. The minister had the opportunity to visit the Gerontology Centre in Futoga, a centre in which we invested 90 million dinars in the previous four years for which additional funds were allocated for this year in order to build a shelter. So it's just another indicator that we take care of older citizens to have the best possible social protection. However, some representatives of opposition parties, often driven by the politics of insanity, even when it comes to newborn babies in Novi Sad, often go beyond all limits. So on the news that in Novi Sad, every baby born on the Day of Novi Sad gets a gift from the city of 200,000 dinars yellow Balša Bozovic says, quote now: "And the other babies to imagine next time whether they will be born on New Sad Day or choose another date." I think these statements are embarrassing, especially because they come from Balša Bozovic whose boss, Dragan Djilas, while he served as mayor of Belgrade, has just remained in debt to the families of 400m dinars in the name of unpaid fees. While his head was mayor of Belgrade, the parents paid 9,500 dinars to stay in kindergartens. Today, the stay of children in kindergartens is 5,600 dinars. While his head was Belgrade's mayor in kindergarten in Belgrade, there were 47,500 young people. Today, 77,000 young people go to kindergartens in Belgrade. If Balša Bozovic is very interested in Novi Sad, he should know that we have provided free stay in Novi Sad for all children in kindergartens, that we have subsidized the stay of children in private kindergartens, provided free meals in primary schools for socially endangered children, children with developmental disorders, children with families with three and more children, free textbooks for all champions. And when we talk about the social protection of older citizens, it is important to point out some of the measures, such as public transport benefits, benefits that are viewed in terms of rehabilitation financed by the city of Novi Sad through a resorient administration, but also the payment of utility services for certain categories of population. However, none of this would have been possible if we hadn't started heavy economic reforms since 2014, because these reforms and the conduct of a responsible SNS policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic led us to have a stable budget today, a higher standard of living for citizens, simply today through a discussion of the proposed social map law, further improve the situation in this area, not like Dragan Gilas, which the only cards that were interested in were Bus Plus maps and ways to increase his and his brother's property map. He doesn't care about social cards. In the voting day, I will certainly support the proposal for a social card law, given the importance of this law to improve the social security situation, because the state is as strong as it is ready to help the weakest, and the state of Serbia today is strong enough and determined to provide a better future for all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2916	I thank the People's Messenger Gojko Palalic. The next is national MP Sandra Jokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2917	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have very important points of the agenda – the proposal for a law on the social map. The social map is the existence of a unique and centralized record in electronic form containing accurate and up-to-date data of each individual, each citizen. The ministry will have a database of people with disabilities, fighters, child support and all users of some cash compensation. It'll all be in one place, united in one base. They'll be checked, categorized, and this way they'll prevent any malfeasance. That would make sure that help goes into the right hands. So, a more just exercise of the social rights of citizens. There will no longer be those who will have to come and make demands, to beg, in some way, to have a bad feeling about it. This will mean the people at risk, the Roma who are mostly users of social giving. Most of them don't even have a temporary job, part of it because of education, because we know it's all coming from that. Those who do not have regular monthly incomes easily give up schooling and thus spin in a vicious circle. Work capacity should be employed in accordance with education, physical and health skills for certain temporary jobs and later on. This would reduce the users of social giving. Only by working can we reduce poverty. People who are used to receiving social assistance are hard to give up. That's why old and sick people who have no one to care about them, who don't have regular monthly incomes, should be provided with permanent social benefits. It's been in practice so far, but I hope there will be a future. Single mothers have to have regular monthly incomes while children go to school, until they get up, until they grow up a little bit so they can stay home alone so that these mothers can be employed, because no one in the country deserves to live on the edge of existence. Therefore, the social map will mean a great deal to all sensitive groups of citizens. That's why I'm going to vote in voting day to support this bill, as well as my fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2918	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Sandra Jokovic. The next is MP Vuk Mircetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2919	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, reported on the agenda on the proposal for a social map bill. I believe that the adoption of this law is of paramount importance, because it is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to lead an adequate social policy. During her address this morning, Prof. Dr. Kisic Tepavcevic also talked about social donations and rights, but also about the number of potential beneficiaries of these rights. It is important to stress that the Republic of Serbia is thinking of the most vulnerable population and exactly what the minister mentioned – 106 billion dinars are defined for this very purpose. The adoption of the social card law is in line with this, given that only the adoption of the law means the establishment of a single base that would contain data on the socio-economic status of citizens and related persons. What's the situation right now? There are currently certain bases, several bases that control and record data, update, and Professor Dr. Kisic Tepavcevic pointed out that it was all about connecting all these bases, so connecting data in internal and external sources. By forming an electronic register on the socio-economic status of an individual, we receive a record in electronic form that is both accurate and reliable, but also what is very important, updated in real time. One question arises, and when I talk to citizens, a few citizens have asked me that – what happens with certainty, how safe it is, what happens to the protection of their data, given that this record, the base, will be able to access more people than ever before? For the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is very important to know, and we discussed this yesterday at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, a member of the 10th Law points out that it is necessary to keep track of all those users who access the database. This means that there will be records of certain target data, which additionally ensures, i.e. giving security to citizens and preventing abuses. What are the benefits of this law? The previous speakers also talked about it. On the one hand, we have the benefits that citizens have, so direct their benefits. They will be more visible in the system, on the one hand, not all institutions will be visited, costs will be reduced and procedures will be faster, and if the procedures are faster, they will not waste time. On the other hand, the state is establishing a control mechanism. If control and control mechanisms are in place, this means a fairer social policy and giving. It is important to note that this bill is also in line with Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's exhibition, which stressed that digitisation is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the adoption of this law will further contribute to fairer social protection. For all the reasons mentioned in the day of voting on my own personal behalf and on behalf of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – I am pleased to say to our children that I will support this bill and also call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to also vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2920	Thank you. The next is the folk emissary Vesna Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2921	The President-in-Office, Mrs Kovac, respected minister with associates, MPs, the adoption of the Social Card Law is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. The social map shall provide and process data on the individual and related persons necessary to determine the social economic status, i.e. for the exercise of social protection rights and services in accordance with the laws, as well as data on the rights and social protection services that the person has benefited or benefited from, data on the rights and services that are in the process of achieving and the information on the rejected and rejected requests, etc. Unfulfilled rights. By establishing a social card register, we will have a unique and centralised record in electronic form with accurate and updated data according to the category of population that meet the conditions for the exercise of social protection rights. It is important to point out that the introduction of this system will allow citizens who are indeed in the most difficult economic position to be visible in the system in order to exercise their right of timely and effective support. The expectations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and our expectations of MPs are that a much better and fairer distribution of this assistance will be provided for the same amount of money. It is important that social welfare control is improved, and this will again result in a fairer distribution of money for the most vulnerable. For citizens, this means that any change in their social, financial, property status will be automatically registered and that they will no longer have to go around ten, 15 counters to achieve some social protection rights. In other words, this regulation should prevent abuse but also affect the state to provide emergency assistance when necessary. How do you do that? It is achieved by connecting the social map with software solutions managed by the Ministry for data acquisition and with the Central Population Register, the Republic Fund for Mandatory Pension and Disabilities Insurance, the Ministry, the National Employment Service, the Tax Administration, the GZO. It's important to link the local level to the Central Register. I believe you will agree with me that our common goal is to provide citizens with basic conditions for a dignified life. In this sense, the titel municipality from which I come really contributes to improving the living conditions of those citizens who are in a difficult economic situation, and we do not forget the youngest, as students, students, pregnant women, maternity and the oldest category of the population. The municipality of Titel is a socially responsible local self-government, despite its third category of development and with a modest original budget of only 655 million dinars. For this financial year, a total of 77,221,260,00 dinars were planned for the Social and Child Protection Programme, with more than 10 million being allocated to the Centre for Social Work, whose department is in Title. The municipality of Titell refunds with two million prenatal screenings, pays one-time maternity aid for the first child of 50,000, and for the second, third, and each of the following 30,000 dinars. A million and 210 thousand dinars allocated for financing 100% of the stay costs, third, fourth and next children in preschool for a full day or half-day stay. Thirty-three million dinars are allocated for the transport of primary and secondary school students, so they have free transportation. We also allocate 950,000 dinars for the Red Cross, and two million 900 for logos, escorts and the cost of transporting students with developmental interference. We also scholarship 30 students and three million dinars. In collaboration with the Refugee Commissioner, we have provided 12 million 590 thousand for the purchase of houses to families of internally displaced persons. What I want to point out in my address is the fact that the municipality of Titell does not have its own social work centre, but does its activities within the Centre for Social Labour for the Municipality of Žablj and the municipality of Titel Department in Titell. This opportunity I ask the Ministry to help us establish a social work centre for the municipality of Titell, to enable us to receive two or three more executives, because the number of users in our municipality is very high. In the last year, we had 3201 users on record, with this number covering all the help from the social protection framework. Seventeen children are placed in our 10 foster families. We have employees of only three workers who, despite a large number of cases and users, work hard and give their maximum in order to carry out trusted tasks safely and responsibly. With Frog, we don't have any touch points, it's a special local self-government, we're 40 kilometers away. The Supervision is being performed by a Toad worker, who comes in a week or, if necessary, to the titel. Solutions or beliefs are made in the Frog, so objects are constantly circulating on this route, the Titell-Toad, the Frog-Titel. All this indicates that it is necessary to establish a social work centre in my municipality. Employ more professional associates to satisfy users' needs in an even better and more efficient way. In the end, Madam Minister, I sincerely wish you and your associates a great deal of success in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2922	I thank the People's Messenger, Vesni Knezevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I'm gonna ask our supporters to look after that chicken in Pancheva, not to throw chickens at our political opponents, because we don't have to look like them. So a man becomes decent when he treats such individuals in a decent way. No matter what the lady supported my beatings on the steps of the National Assembly, which she invented if I had a knife in my hand on that occasion, I again appeal to our political supporters not to do so, so as not to look like them. We are operated on such a way of treating political opponents. Jesus himself said: “You love your enemies, ” and as Christians, especially me, I urge us to act like one. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2012, when political changes occurred, we found a completely broken, politically decapitated state, economically devastated, militaryly powerless, socially unsustainable. After that famous privatization of predatory, we have 400,000 people left, and everyone else was underpaid or paid. In that situation, the 400,000 people who were fired or paid poorly were deprived of any dignity, deprived of personal income, and in a certain way on the income side, where the income was made to the state, became an expenditure party. So they became social cases that needed to be paid for social benefits, and until they lost their jobs they were state income, so from their taxes and the state's contributions had some income. They didn't make poverty poor, they made rich. The poor should not be ashamed of their poverty, especially at that time, because they have come to it with their hard work. The rich of that period should be ashamed of their hard work, but these poor, fired and underpaid, who have been wandering around the suburbs without work, empty pockets, and empty stomachs. Ducic said: "The worst thing is to be old, sick and poor. “ That is exactly what happened to the Serb village. The biggest poverty today is in the country. The greatest injustice is that there are even hungry people in the country who do not eat enough quality, even though they have produced hundreds of tons of food in their lives, hundreds and thousands of tons. Today you have old, sick and poor in every village. Statistics show they're the poorest. Today, the country’s social welfare is happier than the pensioners’ peasants, because social aid is often even bigger than the peasant pensions. Peasants' pensions are due in sixty-five years and you have to pay 15 years of peasant labor to get to them. For social assistance, you don't have to have to do this for social benefits, but the condition that you don't have two acres, no hectare of the country, and then peasants who can't make two acres of revenue resort to the sale of agricultural land. Then you put that money in the bank and then we don't know who's really poor. That's why we have people who have several tens of thousands of euros in the bank, they've sold a certain holding of agricultural land and so on, and they belong to the category of social cases. And then, that farmer who's been working patiently for 15 years, paid pension and disability insurance, when he turns 65, only then has the right to that little pension of 11.000,00 dinars. Then many resort – why should I wait 65 years, when the right to social assistance can be achieved far earlier and that is the injustice, which I believe will be corrected because even the translation of land to some connected persons, relatives and so on, will be introduced into that social map and it will be known who really needs to get social assistance and who doesn't. We have a case of seasonal workers, that social cases avoid being reported, that is, on the day, because they're afraid they'll lose their social benefits, and in doing so, the state is losing pension and disability funds again, and health funds are losing a certain amount. Social cases have the right to health insurance, and for example, employees to whom the employer has not paid the contributions he does not have. So there's a lot of injustice, and I believe that through these social maps, we will fulfill it. I urge special attention to these less-paid people. I must say, unlike the rule of the party of the former regime, we've made a lot right. We were more prone to less-paid people, so, say, a minimumer of 15 or 17 thousand dinars, with the same rate of euro, increased to 32,000, which is not much but is 60 or 70% more than they had in 2012. Also, the average salary has increased from 328 euros to 520 euros, which is a 60% increase again, but I urge that we continue to share money more equally, in favour of those less paid. Why? Unlike the rich, who I blame because these people are less paid and because they are poorer, these people don't get paid outside but spend it inside and the state gets VAT in that way, so full of the state's register and so can those who are out of a job, who are receiving social assistance, in this way can contribute to their social welfare being great. I think everyone, and people, according to the Declaration of Human Rights, is born equal, has the right to work, to make decent profit, to a happy home, to have the availability of education and health, to treat which they will not, to educate those who will and to have the right to a decent age and to ensure that, since I live in the country, above all, the village population. Finally, to finish -- wise people are rich when they are very poor -- that's what Ciceron said. We must, unlike the party of the former regime, be wise, but worthy and consecrated, because sloth so slowly moves that poverty can catch up with us quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2924	Thank you. He has the word Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2925	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, should have a social map for all citizens of Serbia. Data on citizens from state bases will be collected in the Central Register. Each of us has its rights and obligations. Some may use the privileges of the state, or they will not be entitled to do so. Developed countries have a population register and a register of all revenues. Crossing these revenues provides a picture of the social structure of the population. The introduction of this system will allow citizens in the most difficult economic position to be more visible in the system, in order to exercise their rights in a timely and effective manner. All persons entitled to social assistance will be able to collect documents in one place. Data are protected in three ways. First – authorization, control of the right to access the register; second – authentication, use of usernames and passwords and under three – recording access to the register, automatic recording of the person performing the changes, which are changes and who and when used the base. This law will be implemented in two stages. Under one – register of all data related from the Ministry of Labour and connection with data from other records. The social map will also store specific data on individuals, including those on the rights of social protection, payments, other financial benefits, denied claims, subsidies, but also information on health status, whether they are persons with disabilities and whether they are single parents. Except for this information, there will be basic data, such as names, last name, date of birth, place of residence, occupation, data on movable and immovable property, estimated value of the same, data on income paid to taxes, paid pensions. Law enforcement is expected on 1 March 2022. The aim of introducing a social map is to fight poverty, as well as to eradicate the abuse of social assistance and to ensure a better quality life of users of social giving. The same amount of money is expected to provide a better quality life for social assistance users and provide much better targeted social assistance. The planned and defined budget of social contributions will be more rationally used. In Europe, as in the whole world, there is an unfair struggle, one inhumane and brutal work to obtain vaccines against Kovid 19. Big gauze, little ones. Our President, Alexander Vukic, has restored our country's reputation, and his wise and responsible concern for the health of our citizens has surprised the whole world. One small country in Europe is at the top of the immunization of its citizens, but so we can choose. Three types of vaccines have been obtained for our citizens and reoccurring as well. We're getting confessions from all over the world, but individuals with us are still poisoning hate. Now they're very concerned about how much we're in charge of getting the same ones and how much it's going to cost us building the subways, whose construction they've been announcing themselves. Gentlemen, don't worry about the budget, because you only know how to empty it. You don't have to praise this fight and the glorious victory, you say hello, because if you don't know how to make that fight a more successful supply of vaccines, I guess you have powerful friends, and then you look more successful, maybe you learn something. One Germany, by its reputation in Serbia, is getting a Chinese and Russian vaccine. Angela Merkel hails and praises our president for his wise predictions and excellent moves. EU Ambassador Sam Fabrici praised the struggle and acquisition of vaccines, with a statement that Europe should look up to Serbia. President McCron is our sincere friend, who and how he shows respect for our country, but because of friendly relations and respect for our President, Alexander Vukic. The statement by Vuk Jeremic that the visit to France is good for Vukic, not for Serbia, is extremely malignant. How someone who has been well positioned in world institutions or has a distorted picture of the position of Serbia today or because of personal ambition and does not know what is good for Serbia. Dragan Gilas accused President McCron of making suspicious deals with this visit and thereby directly accusing him of corruption. He accused Europe and America of supporting some fascist regime in Serbia. These and such statements by the party leaders say that hate is the only programme and policy of their parties. Imagine, gentlemen, that our Torlak can now produce vaccines against Kovid 19, but he can't. You've destroyed it with your carelessness, but we're gonna fix it with a budget that's more rationally spent, not pouring into the pockets of individuals. With successful co-operation with Russia, Torlak will produce vaccines against severe disease, both for Serbian citizens and for exports. In the day of voting, I will support the bill, as well as my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2926	Thank you. The next is MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2927	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we cannot talk about social policy and this issue of social cards unless we return at least 15 - 20 years to the past and talk about what is causing it, in fact, which is why we today have to discuss the proposal for a law on social cards, which is one of the non-domestic management of the state, one of the non-domestic management of the economy and the economic development that took place especially in the period between 2000 and 2012. What is very important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the fact that for the first time in the past few years, we have many more companies that have been opened during one year in the Republic of Serbia than those that have been closed. It was almost a tradition, it became a tradition that between 2000 and 2012, we have a much larger number of closed companies than new companies, new companies, new business initiatives, new foreign and domestic investments, which is actually a prerequisite for the development of a country, general social development and economic development, which is a prerequisite for a quality, good and fair social policy and social protection. So, SNS is a party to the right center, is a party that heritage of conservative value, a liberal market economy which is one party that heritage and promotion of national feelings and patriotism, but is a party that has shown that, as a party of the right center, can lead a good and quality social policy based on concrete foundations and concrete results. I think President Vukic has just opened a new era in political relations and politics in the Republic of Serbia because of one very important thing for our citizens and for our country, which is honesty and openness to citizens. If we want to be honest and open to citizens, we must also say that there is no social policy, no good and quality social protection, no good and quality protection of vulnerable social and social groups if there is no strong economy, if there is no strong economy, if there is no dynamic development, if there is no investment, if there is no new employment. Whoever's talking about it here in the National Assembly and in all the media that are available to him, whoever's talking about some social policy that's not based on economic development and on investments is not telling the truth, he's lying to this people, he's lying to these citizens and that kind of demagogy, and that kind of populism doesn't go through with our citizens and our people anymore, but it's going through what President Vukic found as a key, as a condio son of qua non policy SNS and our country as early as 2014. This is a scoreboard, it is a measurement, it is the results that can be seen, which can be measured, and can be calculated by how many kilometers of highways we will build, how much municipal and any other infrastructure we will build and do, how much we will open new jobs, how much we will attract foreign investments, but also how much we will encourage the local population to start our own private and entrepreneurial initiatives, to start their own jobs and, as he said in 2014 and 2015, try to change, to see the problem and in ourselves, to try to change the mindset, so, way of thinking and to realize that only private initiatives, the development of entrepreneurship, the development of the entrepreneurial spirit, private businesses, the development of competition, but the competition that will be based on the society of equal opportunities, on the society that we have succeeded, thanks to President Vucic, for these five years of our citizens, to be able to make them feel good in their citizenship, so that they can be able to make them in their own way in their own way of life, so that they can be able to be able to be able to be able to make them in their own way of their own, to make them in their own, and in their own, in their own, and in their jobs, and in their own way of their jobs, and in their own, and in their own, to make their jobs, to make themselves, to make their jobs, to make themselves, to make themselves, to make themselves, to make themselves, to make themselves, to make themselves, to make themselves, to make themselves, to make themselves, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be in their citizens to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to This is what is essential, and this is why Serbia today can lead one responsible social policy, why it can take care of and take care of those social groups that are most vulnerable and which, unfortunately, should be pointed out, cannot be on the free market, in a regular business environment to realize and to vote for their existence. My colleagues, apostrophe and speech by my colleagues Mirkovic and Jovanovic, spoke about the fact that we have so far had a situation for non-selective social assistance to be shared. That's true. We can no longer allow the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the budget money, the money made by the economy, which makes the citizens of our country crucify and gives to those people who absolutely do not belong to categories of social and socially endangered groups, but just by adopting this law and by applying this law we want to change what we have changed in the field of education, what we have changed in the area of construction, in the area of infrastructure, in the area of business, economy, foreign policy. So in areas that involve the social and political and economic life of a country. What separates us and separates us from those who led politics and had that opportunity by 2012 is that Aleksandar Vukic and SNS have clear results, which the Republic of Serbia in 2019 had five billion euros of foreign direct investment, which in 2020, not one investor, and despite this challenge we have, by fighting the coronary virus, did not give up investment in the Republic of Serbia. What did our predecessors do? We must mention this through speculant imports of speculant capital, through robbery privatisations and through taking into account only our own pockets without any thought of how a normal worker, a normal citizen of the Republic of Serbia, is going to live and is it possible to live decently and with dignity from his work. No, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these people didn't care about it, these people didn't care about this country, these people didn't care about the citizens, the workers, and I'm not talking about their concern for the most vulnerable social and social groups. When he became Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic began major economic reforms, he implemented fiscal consolidation and led to the fact that today, despite the challenges that we have, caused by this virus Kovid-19, the external political challenges we have, particularly related to our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, the Republic of Serbia and the position and position of Serbs in the region, that we can lead one policy in which all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have the opportunity to lead a normal and dignified life. One of the main examples and best examples of this and again, I am potentialing this traffic light, what can be seen as a result is what is being done in the city of Belgrade and in the process of leading social policy. Look, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this data: personal escorts with children with developmental disorders, which in 2014 were 44, now there are over 500, personal assistants for people with disabilities who had never existed before in Belgrade and now work 70 assistants, there are three new living rooms for children with developmental disturbances, the most modern facility for children who are victims of neglect, which is an institution, a shelter for children who are now in a 1,700 square meters facility, and before that was 20 years in an object of 200 square meters. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's how social policy is conducted. That's how you take care of the most vulnerable social groups. That's how you take care of people with disabilities. That's how you take care of neglected children and younger adults who don't have the opportunity to grow up in families and have all the care of their parents, their grandparents, their grandfathers. What is a position and what is the obligation of every serious state is to take care of them, to take care of them, to take care of them until they're done, which will ensure that they finish quality and good high school, to finish the trade, and those who have affinities, who have the quality, who have the will and desire to finish vocational schools, to finish colleges, to finish universities and to school to the levels they want. And it's a serious state that in one real and quality way, besides the economy, besides investment, development and education. My colleague Milenko spoke and I think it's one of the most important topics in order to conduct a good and quality social policy, which is dual education. In addition to dual secondary education, we introduced dual higher education last year. We want to have a flexible labour market, we want to have an environment and a state where everyone can find a job that they want, in which everyone can move forward in their careers and in which everyone can cash in on their knowledge, practically, theoretically, and live on their quality and dignity. That's Serbia today. This is Serbia, which despite this crisis caused by Kovid – 19 has 7% of unemployed people, unlike in 2012, when we inherited this country with almost 25% of unemployed people. One quarter of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, 25% did not work, and worst of all, did not get a chance to work at a domestic company in a foreign company. Today you have a Vucic who brings companies from Japan, which brings companies from the Middle East from the EU, the People's Republic of China, the United States. Serbia is today the most favourable and best investment destination in this part of Europe. In Serbia today you have no problem, a young man has no problem getting a job. He can do it. If he wants to work, he can advance, he can learn, and that's the Serbia we want to leave behind, and we want to leave it to our younger generations and our children, Serbia's opportunities, Serbia in which every child will be able to choose, whether to go to the trade, whether to school through college, master's, to the doctorate, to teach at the university, and where there will be many, many such choices. And that's the state we've managed, here in six years, and let's do, a country where these young people have the opportunity to do everything they need and where there's no reason to think about leaving this country. It goes in favour of what, I certainly know, that President Vukic is thinking the most and the most concerned, which is Serbia's demographic. It's a problem that's not only our country's problem, but the whole region's problem, the whole of Europe, and it's a major and strategic issue -- how can there be more of us? We will be more and we will be more human and more numerous, we will be more economically powerful and politically stronger only if we develop our economy and only if we create this kind of environment that the SNS has managed to create in just a few years by performing a function and having the opportunity to lead this state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this majority in parliament. Of course, I have to look back at what is, unfortunately, in addition to all these good results, in addition to the economic results, in addition to the investments, in addition to all these successes, unfortunately our citizens and all of us here have been able to see that in this country it was quite realistic, at least until a few days ago, the ability to function in this country's most frightening, most sensitive criminal clans, and that even in conjunction with various centres, domestic and foreign powers, they were probably working on it and to threaten security, i.e. to express myself explicitly, if they had no other option, if they could not do so through democratic elections and other democratic instruments, to execute the assassination of the president of the Republic of Serbia. I will refer to the Director of Police, Mr. Rebic, and I will not be indirect. I'm not going to talk about how to support a Colloquial fight against organized crime. You know, everything's nice, we'll back it up, the state authorities, the authorities do their job. Police Director Rebic said 30-40 years for these people who have committed the most terrible crimes in our country in the past few years and who have thought to threaten something that has been best and most important and important to Serbia over the past 200 years, which is those reforms that Aleksandar Vukic carried out. Those who dared to do so, led by the head of the clan, obviously a contractor, will see further who are the inspirers of all of it, whether there are political ones, whether there are those who participated in it, and from other countries, other countries, and also those who are here, who are allies in this business, should be processed and convicted urgently. As always with this pay phone, I encourage, I don't think the police have any problem with it, they've done their job, but since they can't do anything else, I can only encourage and encourage the prosecutors and the prosecution to finish the job as soon as possible for the citizens and for the future of our children. As for this one of ours, I feel free to say, "Comprador's opposition", I will try briefly to explain to the citizens and to you who are "compradors". "Commradors" are people who, during the 19th century, helped the British sell opium to Chinese citizens in China in half the 19th century. So, they helped those who in fact threatened the safety of their people, so that these people who are ready for all to come to power, who are willing to make a pact with the black devil to bring down Alexander Vukic, is a message from here, from this pay phone, from this House, from this place where we represent the will of the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it will never pass them, that Serbian citizens will never again allow this country to be ruled by someone who is a leader, who has a vision, who cares about everyone, whether he was rich, whether he was poor, who has equal attitude and equal access to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. This has yielded results, and I am sure that the SNS, headed by President Aleksandra Vukic, will get many more mandates to lead this country in this kind of domestic, good and quality way and provide the future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2928	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Next is counterpart Biljana Jakovljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2929	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected ministry representatives, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us with the proposal for a bill on the social map, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is one of the priority reforms in terms of better targeted social contributions, as the prime minister in her Expozeu said. It is precisely this law that we will improve the social protection system and allow our citizens faster and more accessible to exercise their rights from the domain of social protection. The social map presents a united insight into data on current and potential users of social protection services. In this way it is possible for citizens who are most difficult, i.e. in the most difficult economic situation to be visible in the system in order to exercise their right to their needs in a timely and effective manner. By creating social security registers and social cards, the state will have insight into the economic position of each individual, but also the possibility of more justly deploying financial assistance to those who have the right to do so. For citizens, this would mean that any change in their social, financial and property status is automatically registered and that they will no longer have to visit 15 counters to achieve some social protection rights. In other words, the function of this law is to prevent abuse and to urgently provide assistance where necessary. Otherwise, the Social Cards Act will also be a green light for crossing the Ministry's databases and other institutions, which will allow for a smooth and accurate flow of information for employees, and for citizens faster achievement of their rights. A well-leaded social policy and social protection implies that all those in a state's social needs should respond to measures, i.e. rights. The obligation of the state is to provide social assistance and protection to those who need it, and these are sensitive groups, these are old people, people with disabilities, people with special needs. However, when we talk about working categories of people, the state is working to make employment possible. Currently in the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs is in preparation for the employment strategy for the period from 2021 to 2025, a strategy in which all these sensitive groups are priority in employment, so persons with disabilities, Roma, beneficiaries of social assistance rights, as well as young people up to 30 years old. In terms of employment measures, i.e. demand and employment measures, this year we allocated 5.5 billion dinars and 550 million dinars to people with disabilities. If we take just one example, we'll see how much has been done in the past. In 2012, we had an unemployment rate of 27%. Today it's 9%. That's exactly how much employment is our country's priority. At this point, our country stands out for all the social contributions of 106 billion dinars and this law intends to achieve a fair distribution of money for all citizens. Following the adoption of this law, the adoption of sub-legislative acts followed by the implementation of complete technical documentation, the networking of the system and the merger with all relevant institutions, the ministry and the information from the ministry are expected to be fully applied on 1 March 2022. Then we will know the exact number of citizens in the base and it will be exclusively citizens who are currently exercising their right from the domain of social policy and all citizens who have applied or applied under official duty. Through these reports, we're going to have an exact picture based on which we're going to be able to work to improve social policy. Also, this will be a modern electronic administration that will be more effective and efficient. This is exactly the degree that will circle the digitisation of public administration and administration. We had the opportunity to see a good example in practice, digitising the system when applying for vaccination faster, simpler and more efficient and accessible to all citizens, but also of course for the whole system. By adopting this bill on the social map, we continue to take care of the most vulnerable citizens, but also the fight against poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2930	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Dean Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2931	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an esteemed minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia as the author of the proposal for a social map law, and above all for the reasons why we have been waiting for this law for almost 30 years. For 30 years, many authorities, until the arrival of the SNS, assured us that they would approach the draft social card law, as well as that it would be in the assembly procedure during their term of office. But all this, unfortunately, is just a dead letter on paper. As in many other areas of solutions that are essential to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their position have been postponed for a better time, and I am very glad that these better times have come with the arrival of the SNS, because this is exactly the law we show that we are working and that we are fighting exclusively for citizens for their position and their fundamental rights. I must remind you that in June 2020, the SNS, or the list of Alexander Vukic – won over two million votes from all out voters in the parliamentary elections in June 2020. This very respectable result showed us at that time that most citizens of the Republic of Serbia support Alexander Vukic's policy, while at the same time creating an even greater commitment to fight in the same way for all citizens and their rights. When I say – for everyone, first of all I mean the rights of our youngest, the rights of women, the rights of youth and the rights of our oldest citizens. Starting from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act in which the basic human rights corpus is incorporated, and above all I am referring to the right to freedom, the right to work, the right to pension also provides for the right to achieve social protection in Article 69. In order to enable all citizens to exercise their fundamental rights, including the right to social protection, one way is to adopt the Social Card Act. We'll all probably wonder why this law is important. It is important, above all, because by confirming it in the House of the National Assembly, we show a lot of respect for the social needs of all our citizens and for making it easier for them to reach the authorities in a much faster, more rational and more efficient way and we will probably also ask ourselves what the social map is? The social map represents one unique centralised database in electronic form containing accurate and up-to-date data on all social economic protection users and related persons, and these data are primarily necessary to enable all persons to exercise their social protection rights in a much, as I said, faster, more rational and more efficient way. By reading this bill in detail, I have come to the conclusion that one important goal has also been achieved, which is transparency and how? Transparency is first and foremost achieved because the future social map will contain data from the Tax Administration, the MUP, the Catastre of immovableity. On the basis of these data, we will be able to clearly determine whether a person is a taxpayer, whether the rightholder of property on a particular mobile or immovable matter, is the user of the pension because on the one hand the goal is to have a single database in order to facilitate the exercise of the right on the one hand, and on the other hand to those who need it most and to make it the first. Furthermore, the law allows those in the most difficult economic position to be even more visible to the system and to achieve the necessary support both the institutions and the state in the fastest possible way. Also, this bill allows certain savings to be made with regard to the collection of documents that persons need to prove their social status. First of all, I am thinking about obtaining assurances about tax obligations, a list of immovableities, etc., but at the same time with cost reduction, we will contribute and save the time it takes to collect these documents. I am extremely pleased that after 100 days of forming the government, we have joined the debate on this bill, which is particularly highlighted in Prime Minister Brnabic's programme. This shows that we represent the policy of those promises that will be fulfilled as soon as possible. The evidence that this law will see the light of the day also shows the realization of the first phase relating to the acquisition of a software programme that will contribute to the pooling of all data contained in the subsystem of the competent ministry, because precisely the unification and availability of all data shows the clear intention of the competent ministry to make citizens' rights a priority and to achieve them within the fastest possible time limit regardless of gender, age or material status. Because what is the priority of all priorities is to achieve equality. I also can't help but look back at certain negative and positive things that have happened to us in our earlier years in the area of social protection. I must remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia of the "Hetherland" affair that took place on the territory of Vojvodina in 2011. At that time, under the pretext of adaptation and reconstruction of the castle ‘Hetherland’, and for the needs of children distracted by development and their parents, one of the greatest abuses of positions was carried out by the leaders of the city of Novi Bece and then senior DS officials in Vojvodina. The then Capital Investment Fund, whose chairman of the Management Board was formerly Prime Minister Vojvodine Bojan Pajtic, approved almost 1m euros for reconstruction and adaptation of the "Hetherland" castle. Of course, that money was paid into the account of the company that was the bearer of the works at the time. The deadline for completing these same works was 310 days, and to this day the facility is not completed. The money, as I said, was paid to the labour carrier, and that same worker was showing false journals showing that the works had been done. Although these works were not carried out, then the heads of the City of New Vienna and the Capital Investment Fund could and had to activate the bonds as a means of security and prevent the damage caused by the Capital Investment Fund, as well as for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia of 67 million dinars. Also, since they did not prevent it, the citizens of Vojvodina have lost a reconstructed facility. Social security users have lost a reconstructed institution, while citizens of the Republic of Serbia have lost money. And I'm saying all of this based on the data contained in the second-degree court ruling, which then the mayor of New Vienna is legally sentenced to one year in prison. But as they are referred to by judgments, we are told of information that is easy to find. I would like to apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for reading this information now, because there are extremely many. To begin with, I must point out that social contributions in 2020 amounted to 420 million dinars, and in 2021, 430 million, although behind us is the year when the Covid virus appeared and when we took measures to help all categories of the population and even the economy. In 2012, I have to remind pregnant and maternity women of 396 million dinars, and the aid to children paid through the City Centre for Social Work of 11.4 million dinars, while in 2020 there is no debt of a single dinar. I must also remind you that the total debt for social assistance users in 2013 was an incredible 5.3 billion dinar. In 2012, the rights in this area were achieved by 3,500 pregnant women, and today the number is 17,500. Also, with the same enthusiasm and desire we worked to improve the infrastructure for our oldest citizens. There are 13 new retirement clubs open, four of which we have never had clubs, which are: Barajevo, Zemun, Zvezda, Rakovica, and in other municipalities, including Sava Venac, where I come from, have been reconstructed. All this shows the difference in the approach to solving our citizens' daily problems, a difference that cannot exist if we want our Serbia and our cities to develop with respect to all the needs of our citizens. But it's obvious that the category of citizens of the former government and we don't experience it the same way. We do not experience, because we work, build and fight that our future is even better and safer, because for us there is, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, only one Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2932	Thank you. Next is counterpart Nevena Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2933	Dear President, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us a proposal for a social map law that is of paramount importance for more effective functioning of the social protection system, as well as social work centres and other social protection institutions. I pay particular attention to this bill, given that I have gained my first working experience just working at the Sombor Social Labour Centre, where I have been through all the areas of work that this institution is working on during my years of work. In direct work with different categories of socially endangered individuals and families, I have clearly seen certain difficulties that have been inflicted precisely because of the absence of relevant data and records on socially endangered persons. I believe that the social card law will be an adequate and effective solution to the problems facing social protection institutions in working with socially endangered individuals and families. This law regulates the establishment of a base of socio-economic status for every resident of the Republic of Serbia. It represents a unique centralised and connected record in the area of social protection. It is also an official source of data on socially endangered persons who will be covered or already covered by some form of social protection. The base will certainly provide an integrated approach to work that will significantly facilitate and speed up the process of exercising social protection rights for each user. When we talk specifically about the social map, it includes all relevant data on the individual and related persons, and based on this data, the socio-economic status is defined. The main objective of this is more efficient, rational and fairer implementation of social protection. The achievement of this objective also provides for proactiveness in the implementation of social policy, which is an important aspect of the functioning of every country and society itself. What is also important to me in the proposal for this law is that the competent ministry will use this base to monitor and study the situation and the needs of users to plan and develop a social protection system, to analyse the impact of the social protection measures taken, as well as to take appropriate measures to prevent poverty and eliminate the consequences of social exclusion. The area of social protection is wide. Part of the business that social work centres are dealing with is also broad and complex. So I believe in the positive effects of applying this law. In this way, the government of the Republic of Serbia, following President Aleksandar Vukic's policy, has just indicated that every citizen of this country is an important member of society, regardless of social diversity. Every endangered individual or family should in no way feel marginalized because they are in a state of social need. The proposal for this law is primarily in the interest of our citizens, but it will also have a significant impact on the more efficient, faster and easier work of employees in social work centres who are business holders in the field of social protection. That is exactly what will lead to a more effective exercise of social protection rights for every citizen in the Republic of Serbia. It will prevent abuse and allow for a more rational distribution of funds, which means that social assistance will be given to those users who really need it. The adoption of the social card law also lays the legal basis for the establishment of the social map information system. The introduction of this system is also defined as a priority of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. Of course, in the voting day, I will support this bill. What I would like to mention at the very end of my presentation today is one example of my own practice by working within the material giving service. In fact, it's a four-member family with two adults and two children. I saw clearly and saw facts that do not indicate that the family is in a state of social need. Moreover, their standard of living was more than satisfying. The same family tried to conceal their socio-economic status. Based on its expert findings and opinions, a reluctant solution has been made by the Social Labour Centre. Of course, the applicant applied for this solution. It is this law that will reduce the number of complaints about the social work centre's solutions. The application of the social map will prevent abuses and the possibility of misleading the social protection system. This will preserve the expertise and integrity of employees in social work centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2934	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Vladimir Grahovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Minister. Today, the draft law on the social map for which there was a need to bring it could have been said long ago. What is the primary purpose of this law? This law regulates the establishment and operation of a united register of social cards, i.e. the way of access, content, data processing, as well as other issues of importance for their management. The social map is a unique register containing data on the individual and related persons, on socio-economic status, data on the type of rights and social protection services used or used by the person, as well as data on the officials who led or decided on individual rights. The objective of establishing a social map is to establish a single and centralised record containing accurate and up-to-date data on the socio-economic status of the individual and related persons and allowing for the identification of the facts necessary for the achievement of the rights and services in the field of social policy, in particular for the more effective exercise of the rights and services of social protection and fairer distribution of social assistance. When this system is established in electronic form, in whose database the data from the central register of the population, the compulsory pension and disability insurance organisation, the registers from the MUP, the organisations responsible for employment, tax administration, the Republic of Geodetic Office, will create the most accurate picture of the social status in which the individual is present. We have all witnessed that in certain cases social assistance has also been given to citizens who, on the real basis, had no right to do so, while on the other hand, our fellow citizens often and because of lack of information, simply did not benefit from the rights that they belong to. The adoption of social card laws will avoid the situation in the future. What exactly will bring the formation of a social map? It will provide a greater coverage of the socially endangered population, with a reduction in exclusion errors, to reduce the unwarranted allocation of social benefits, and then to increase transparency in the allocation of social assistance, the process of updating in the event of a change in the economic and social status of the individual will be accelerated. This map will also provide a level playing field for social protection procedures, as well as for supporting the creation of a common social policy in our country. The establishment of a social map system consists of two segments – the creation of legal legislation, i.e. the adoption of this law and of sublegal regulations and the production of an information system, i.e. the register of social maps. That is why it is of great importance that we adopt this law and move quickly into the realisation of the formation of social maps. The draft law also defines bodies that will use data processed in the social map, such as authorities responsible for implementing social protection, social work centres, local self-government units, the ministry, the competent authorities of the Autonomous Province, the competent republican authority for the implementation of social protection promotion activities and other bodies of the administration and institutions in accordance with the law. In that sense, I would like to apostrophe the importance of local communities as a body directly in communication with citizens who are often better familiar with the socio-economic situation of the inhabitants of that village or part of the city or municipality, than some of the higher authorities of the administration or social institutions. By making better use of institutions that are in direct and direct communication with citizens, we would come up with the most accurate data on the social status of the population. Meat communities are rarely the first doors to socially endangered residents on whom they have the opportunity to nail and receive information, in the extreme line and emergency assistance. For this reason, it should be taken into account that when implementing this law and this minimum local management body are used to ensure that the results of this social card law are better and fairer. The need for accurate data to exist through social maps could be applied, for example, in the event that there was a situation where members of the electoral committees who were unemployed because of this one-day engagement were interrupted, so they had to re-apply to the labour market. Speaking of citizens who participated as members of the electoral committees in the previous elections, it is simply unthinkable that no one has yet responded to the reckless accusations of the leaders of individual parties, that these people participated, in their words, in some suspicious business during the election day. I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the previous election cycle, more than 20 political organisations have largely used the right to propose members of the extended election boards to about eight and a half thousand polling stations across Serbia, and these are parties of different spectrum from radicals, Socialists, DSS, parties of Hungary, Albanian national minorities, Ugljanin's party, the party of Sergei Trifunovic. In addition to representatives of all these political options, about 50,000 members of the permanent election boards were present that day. All in all, several dozen, including hundreds of thousands of people, representatives of the most diverse political parties, were concerned that day about the regularity of the electoral process. Now, Vuk Jeremic, as a policy priority, proposes 17,000 controllers in polling stations. Therefore, to come to power Serbian citizens, the man does not offer better economic policy, more investment, strengthening travel or rail infrastructure, increasing wages or pensions. No, he offers, as a priority, 17,000 controllers so they don't steal them in polling stations. I honestly thought that the man at the moment of disappointment in high turnout, I'll remind you of the previous elections came out about four or five percent less voters than in previous parliamentary elections, which is because of the pandemic, which says when all the members of the opposition get together, about that comes to the results they can expect. I assumed Jeremic expressed that statement disappointed by the Serbian citizens' strong response to the elections. But Vuk Jeremic recently reiterated the thesis that elections would be stolen again unless he provided 17 thousand of his saints. Is he aware that he irrevocably insults several hundred thousand people who were in these polling stations that day? On average, they're over 20 per polling spot. He's practically accusing tens of thousands of our fellow citizens of stealing something. On that day, our fellow citizens, our neighbors, grandparents, students, ordinary little people, were totally different political beliefs. And this man is knowingly accusing them of participating in something wicked, that representatives, for example, Radulovic, Sapic, Sergei, Zelenovic, Velje Ilic, Ugljanin, together with the representatives of the authorities, have come together and agreed to do what? It is a shame that a man who pleads to become an important political factor in Serbia's space thus accuses the citizens of our country of being part of an unholy act, regardless of what he knows in reality is not possible. I had to look back on this detail because in numerous conversations with people who were in polling stations that day, and among them there are citizens who are not supporters of the ruling structures, there is also dissatisfaction with the attitude presented by this politician in their public performances. All in all, I look forward to the adoption of the proposed law and the establishment of the precise record of the most socially endangered layer of our population, and therefore greater possibilities for the help that such persons are in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2936	Thank you. Next on the list is counterpart Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2937	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had the opportunity to hear the results of the work three days ago in the first 100 days of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens also know how much we have achieved in the previous period, and they also know that we have done all this under extraordinary circumstances. In spite of this, Serbia ended in 2020 with the best economic results in Europe, and we aim to end up in 2021 as one country in the first three or the first five in Europe. And that's the challenge we're facing, and that's something we're starting to get used to. For us, it's for a lot of things to be number one. And finally we get used to thinking of ourselves as winners, even though, believe it or not, it's hard for some to admit it. And not only is it difficult for them, they are on the contrary working against Serbia, to return Serbia to the positions it was in before 2012. Imagine, both the world media and senior European officials who today and my colleagues have been talking about are finding the fact and congratulating Serbia in the way in which the vaccination is conducted, while here, I can say, they are running a more negative campaign against Serbia and they are contesting everything that is being done here. We're used to them challenging and opening factories. We're used to dispute the construction of roads and highways, even though they ride those roads themselves. It's probably just a flaw that President Aleksandar Vukic made these roads. Also, we are used to challenging the largest construction site in this part of Europe, which is Belgrade on water, although they go and buy apartments there, although they are going to walk and use catering facilities and malls. Also, we had a terrible negative campaign and a challenge to the construction of a covid hospital, when our healthcare system was struggling to preserve the lives of our citizens. Then they come in order and vaccines, disputing vaccines. So, here, I'll remind you of one thing. In late December 2020, therefore, a month and a half ago, Dragan Gilas wrote a letter to the European Union. It is likely that the purpose of the existence and justification of the European Union only recognises when it should appeal to its country, he writes a letter to the European Union, but among these other banalities that are listed there mentions that the vaccination plan is beginning to be implemented in Europe, and that there is no reliable data in Serbia on when, how, in which way, vaccinations will be carried out, how confusion is constantly spreading here and, imagine, fear among people. And then he, all so scared, confused, went to the fair yesterday and received a Russian vaccine. Now it would probably be fair to write a letter, or correctly to write a letter to the European Union, and to say, "Here, I received the vaccine, I chose which vaccine I would receive in my country in Serbia, but also what kind of organisation it was. But it's not his style, because embarrassing the country is the way to collect cheap political points. But Serbia's citizens are clearly and unequivocally pleading which leadership wants, who is the president who is a serious statesman, and that's what they say, and here we have recently had the opportunity to see for ourselves, with the support of over two million votes. That President Aleksandar Vukic stands firm behind his words, with clear principles, including the fight against the mafia, we have had the opportunity to see for ourselves in the previous days. By arresting a criminal group a few days ago, we showed that we have a strong state. The state has shown its ability, seriousness and responsibility and we can really say all the best words and praise for the organisation and co-operation of the prosecution, BIA and police. And again, to all this Dragan Gilas through the media he manages, and we will remind Serbian citizens that these media are not registered in Serbia, and we will remind Serbian citizens that these media are not paying taxes in Serbia, he is making fun of, playing and minimising what is being done. This is funny in relation to, probably, robbery, crime, attack and destabilising Serbia up to a few years ago, and it's probably funny, and it's commendable that they are taking pictures with representatives of criminal groups, that they are taking pictures with drug dealers and that they are sitting in front of them at their party meetings. But, as I said, Serbia has a responsible leadership, has a president who cares 24 hours about his citizens and his country. It is very important here to note when we talk about social cards that the state will come up with a package proposal to help citizens and the economy, and this package is worth 2.5 billion euros. I would like to support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the effort and work and efforts of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, which is proud of the fact that the first one hundred days after a long time, has managed to build this one proposal and to direct it to the National Assembly, whose aim is to improve the control of social giving. But in general, we must point out and I hope you will agree with me that Serbia has done a lot of work to improve living standards and improve the general social picture. We also have the elements relating to the increase in the minimum labour price, to the increase in the average wage, we have a goal that we want to reach by 2025 and we are year by year towards that goal, therefore, the increase in pensions. Pensions in Serbia today are not only regular, stable, they are also increasing from a certain period over a certain period. Both during the pandemic, Serbia struggles not to preserve but to raise the standard of living and, with all that, we have managed to bring unemployment levels to a historic minimum. Also in line with the "Serbia 20-25" plan, we want to have that level of unemployment as it is in Europe. The adoption of the employment strategy is also expected, and I am sure that with such a strategy, we will succeed in achieving our stated goal. Corona leaves a mark on all countries, some of them destroyed, but with responsible leadership under the SNS programme and President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia is strong, not only to fight, it also wins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2938	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2939	Thank you. President-in-Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today the proposal for a law on the social map, and I think it is the best way to target those who need help. With this law we continue the successful process of digitisation in all areas of social life and this was the agenda of President Aleksandr Vukic's government since 2014, as well as the Government of Ana Brnabic. Also, this is the best way to use budget funds in the best possible way and as effectively as possible in the fight against poverty. So it's a good thing we have one of these legal frameworks, that we have one of these systems that's digitized and with the help of citizens, we're going to release complicated administrative procedures. In order for Serbian citizens to understand clearly what this is about, therefore, it will not be necessary to apply for certain things from the area, but rather for the citizens to receive what is coming to them and what belongs to them. By reading the social map law, I can say that I am safe and that I believe that citizens of Serbia will be satisfied with such a legal solution because everything the SNS is doing, works for good, for the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The law also enables good coordination and integration of the social protection system with other systems, with the institutions of the state administration through the use of their unique data, of course, with the aim of correct determination of the socio-economic status of individuals and related persons. The law also proves and demonstrates the government's determination to build an accurate system of data "social map" that will enable, as I said, a proper and timely opportunity to establish the socio-economic status of persons who are connected and who exercise rights in the field of social protection, in order to achieve their rights and certain services in time. So when we look at how this law is conceived, when we look at its essence, when we look at the objective of this law, when we look at the modernisation that this law carries with it, we can freely say that this is a serious step in the social protection reform system. I will definitely support this law in the voting day, because I think it is important that as a party to real national policy, we follow social and technological developments in all areas of social life and that we move forward with time and the world. And that's exactly the obstacle and defense of an autoskilled fake elite that has a foothold in the former regime's parties. We had the opportunity to see in the previous period what their ideological pattern and the paradigm of their political action looked like through opposition to the rise of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, through the story of the formation of some ministry of elections, which is a single goal, which is to enter into the institutions of the system, the government of the Republic of Serbia, without the political will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they are aware that the people simply won't in the elections, because of the disastrous economic and political decisions they made in the period from 2000 to 2012, when they were in a position to manage this country. I believe this is a typical indicator of the lack of recognition of the character of the Serbian people, and I am sure that the citizens of Serbia will clearly recognise their manipulative political skills. I want to take the opportunity to draw attention to the public, to draw the attention of the citizens of Serbia to all lies and not to fall for the lies of the members of the fake autoskill elite, I mean, above all, to Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, Marinika Tepic, not to fall for all the things they say about the process and the procedure of vaccination where we are absolute leaders in Europe, not to fall for their lies when they talk about the rise of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, that they do not fall for their lies when they talk about some platforms in the future interparty dialogue, because their only goal is to challenge the political action of President Aleksandr Vukic and to forbid him from speaking and to participate in the next elections. It's just not gonna happen. We will not allow this because of citizens of Serbia who believe in the SNS platform, and our platform is our results from 2012 to today. Our platform is all the objectives outlined and all that we have foreseen for the citizens of Serbia through the "Serbia 2025" Investment Plan, which is that the average salary in Serbia in 2025 is 900 euros, that the average pension between 430 and 440 euros. They see Serbian citizens fighting for state leadership, the government of the Republic of Serbia, President Aleksandar Vukic. They see us fighting to protect our vital state and national interests, i.e. for KIM, see how we fight and what we have managed to do through the process and through the vaccination process, to say that we are one of the most organized states in Europe. They see the citizens of the economic results we've achieved where we're absolute leaders. People see the state dealing with organised crime and corruption. I need to say that it is quite clear that Serbia looks fundamentally different and that it is a fundamentally different country compared to the situation we found in 2012. I need to say that I believe that the national option in Serbia evolved thanks to SNS and President Aleksandr Vukic through innovative solutions through the digitisation process. This shows the rise of the monument to Stefan Nemanja in the heart of the development project, the social development project "Belgrade on Water", through the renovation of the National Museum, through the construction of a highway with a sign of the Serbian revolution on behalf of Milos the Great. The attacks of former regime members on everything that is national, everything that is advanced, everything that is progressive in this country, are absolutely nothing more than the frustration of the defeated by the winners, more precisely than Alexander Vukic, who sent them where they belong, which is on the margins of the social and political scene in Serbia. Progress with the national omen is a new Serbian code and the impact of the autoskilled fake elite of former regime members and former regime parties is becoming increasingly weak in the city of Belgrade as well. Compared with this support and the trust of SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic in the people is growing rapidly, and this is one part because we managed to take away the monopoly on the idea of progress in the society of this fake autoskiller elite that calls itself another Serbia. The monopoly no longer exists thanks to SNS and President Alexander Vukic. I want to address young people in Serbia and tell them that they are free to be political Serbs and to express their political views as we should not have done until 2012 and to join the advanced forces identified through the political action of the SNS, because it is the only guarantee that we will continue to strengthen our economy, strengthen our system because that way we will succeed and spread our political influence. There's no reason we shouldn't go on like that. I am sure that in the coming period, if we continue with such a serious and responsible policy that we are engaged I am sure we will have the opportunity to look forward to Serbia's big economic and political victories, especially in the region. Finally, I will conclude that when we talk about the law that is on the agenda today, we are the ones who open important topics in society, and we are starting from exactly what modern society requires as a necessity and how as a country in the best way possible to monitor social technological development and be a step ahead of others and in the fight against poverty and in all other areas. They can recognize all Serbian citizens, they know that they recognize young people in Serbia, and I am sure they will trust the SNS precisely for those reasons that I have cited in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2940	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Bosiljka Srdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2941	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers, MPs and MPs, the introduction of a social map is defined as a priority of the ministry's work on labour, employment, martial arts and social issues. The state recognized the importance and necessity of introducing a social map, and this was translated into the exposés of the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme, which was also presented in the National Assembly. Under the existing information support of the social protection system, not all data exist, nor are data that exist organised in an adequate way, and the existing information support is partial and organised through several separate information continents and this is the basic problem today. Working on social cards is a united introduction to data on current and potential users. The Social Card Act confirms that Serbia is on track for progress and improvement when it comes to social justice and social protection. This law will introduce a control system that will prevent different abuses when it comes to social giving, and we are all in our midst to witness that there are and how there are, but also to allow for a better and fair distribution of funds. All citizens should be assured that money will go into the right hands, into the hands of those who need it most, and those who are most vulnerable. The law provides for the creation of a single user database and will allow the crossover of data to know at any moment how much budget resources should be allocated and how their redistribution is needed. It is important to note that this law will enable us to look at the structure of the population, that aid will be made available to all citizens in a more efficient and simple way, which, regardless of all the difficulties that citizens face, will start from a lack of required documentation to a lack of information, and will allow them to exercise their rights in the field of social protection and according to the specified criteria. Data between relevant institutions such as catastran, social work centre, National Employment Service and other institutions dealing with social protection, employment and insurance, what is important will be networked. Since it contains a unique database is highly sensitive and confidential, it is necessary to determine exactly how these data will be stored, who will be able to dispose of them according to the protection of personality data. Such processing of data will also be very important for the individual who will no longer have to go from the institution to the institution, to collect documentation, and all of this will be settled under official duty by making the institutions transparent and exchanging data. The essence of this is to reduce pressure on both individuals and institutions. In addition to a fairer distribution of social benefits, the entire social protection system will be improved through the development of new programmes and new support systems for particularly discriminatory social groups such as persons with disabilities and for older people. The goal is for none of the citizens to be left without the help and support of the system. Data on users of social protection rights and services will be updated, which is very important, in a single and centralised base, and it will be possible to determine the social economic status of the individual and their related persons. Individuals and citizens who are most sensitive and vulnerable to this law will become the most visible. The social map will show parallel data so it will be clear how many users receive from the Republic, how much from the local level, as well as what social protection services are available to them. Control and fairer distribution of social contributions will thus allocate the same amount of money allocated from the budget with the targeting of the most vulnerable groups of citizens. The simplest thing is, the social card law provides for clear procedures for access, use and exchange of data. I think it is important to adopt this law, so that we can quickly link the social map to the registers and the intuition records, leading us to digitalised Serbia. I'll definitely vote in favour of this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2942	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dusan Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2943	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, every law we pass, and with regard to improving the quality of our fellow citizens, is a good law, and so is this law on the social map. We've had a chance to hear today what the benefits of this new law are. One of the most important newspapers in this law is the formation, precisely of this one base, of this unique register of all the data of our citizens who once used or applied to use any subsidy or support in the field of social protection. This will benefit greatly from planning long-term strategies and local action plans in the coming period to help our most vulnerable citizens and those who need help. In addition, citizens should know, as they have already had the chance to hear that this law gives them much easier opportunities to apply for the necessary funds, and will no longer have a problem with going around the counters day by day, such as. in the case where they need to exercise the right to free kilowatts of electricity, or to obtain the status of an energy-protected buyer. Now they'll find it much easier, clearer, now they'll be familiar with it, and they'll automatically get information about it, and they'll be able to apply and use these benefits of this new law. In addition, the state is given a way to control the funds so that individuals never happen again to abuse, due to the lack of such a base, and to use funds to harm the state and to the damages of those citizens who need the help most. On-call critics will always talk about everything worst, because they often don't see or care about our people's interests, so they criticized this law. They often have a tendency to warn why we have not passed such a law before. It is those who should have passed this law, just when they were in power, from 2000 to 2012, because our citizens suffered the most trouble during that period, because they did not care. The government at the time wasn't interested in social cards. One of my colleagues said they were only interested in the property map and the map of the companies on which the robbery privatisations were to be carried out, and we all felt the damage. I'm talking like someone who's ninety years old, and I felt these consequences when I enrolled and studied in high school, I didn't see any perspective in the country, because nobody was interested in investing in the economy at the time. The basis for us to be responsible for social policy, is that which has changed since 2012 until today, and since that year every one, so to this day it has taken care of the future, not only of our citizens, but of the future of our children and young people, and so the laws have been passed. It was working to improve the economy in our country, to create conditions to develop road infrastructure and all that is necessary for domestic businesses to grow, to make foreign investments come and create opportunities for new jobs. It is a prerequisite and the best strategy in the fight against poverty to employ our citizens to jobs. During their time, the unemployment rate was 27%, and today it is 9%, and of course, the villains will say that mass nations were flocking towards Europe and the world, which is not true. I can give an example from our city, from Cačka where I come from, that in 2016, according to our employment service, we had a number of nearly 11,000 unemployed, and with a trend by 2020, it fell to 5,000 employees, and in doing so, the number of employees increased proportionally compared to the number of unemployed, which was being replaced. In addition, the opening of the “Milos Great” highway and the investment in infrastructure in our industrial zone in Preljina, strengthening the local economy in Cačka, thanks to Alexander Vukic and the responsible Government of the Republic of Serbia and all the programmes that are directed in this direction, created opportunities for us young people in our city to have greater opportunities in the choice of employment and thus to work our citizens in the right way and to participate in poverty reduction. In addition, we know that there are certain groups in society that are harder to get to work, under which I mean young people up to 30 years old, women with disabilities, Roma, and older people. Active employment policy measures and we Chacans have been spending 40 million each year since 2016, following recommendations from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as it has invested more and more funds in active employment policy measures year after year. Today it's five and a half billion, and we're in Cacca outing thirty million because we've peaked and we've hired those most vulnerable categories. But despite all this, we still have those categories that are now the most socially vulnerable in our society and need such a law, precisely so that individuals, because of lack of control, would not spend the resources they are intended for them and that we could define greater resources for those most vulnerable, but also all those who need services in the field of social protection. That is why in the voting day I will support this law, because it shows in many ways that the state is responsible for taking care of its citizens and taking care of those most vulnerable categories in addition to employment and creating opportunities to apply more easily, to make these rights easier and to enjoy the environments in which they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2944	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenko Kostadinov has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2945	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, social protection in one society is an indicator of not only the development of this society, but also the degree of its organisation and justice. The social protection system is complex because, on the one hand, it requires a comprehensive approach, taking into account a number of parameters, taking into account many facts, and on the other hand, because in its frameworks, solutions are sought for the most vulnerable categories of society. Since the age of socialism over a period of transition, to this day social protection has become increasingly important, because it was during the period of transition and the collapse of the economy of poverty that many have knocked on the door. In parallel, it was necessary to regulate the area of social protection and to bring it into line with the conditions in society and the needs of people who really needed help. It's been waiting a long time for this area to be arranged. It's been almost 30 years for the Social Card Act to be on the agenda here today. The Serbian government recognised the need and importance of regulating the social protection area, and in this task it took serious and responsible approach. Seriously, because the process itself of regulating the social protection system is a very serious, demanding and complex process, and it is responsible because the system of social protection is very important for society and its citizens. If we can't be richer as a society, then we can be fairer, with orderly, clear and transparent social policy. There have been irregularities in the past for a long time. The process of exercise of rights has been painful, often uncertain, non-transparent. So social protection has often been unfair. Help has not always reached those who needed it most, and this has increased the dissatisfaction of the most vulnerable part of the population. This was the result of a lack of data, on the one hand, and various abuses of individuals, on the other hand. We often had budget spending on the wrong groups of people, and on the margin remained those who really needed that help. Social protection is a very important sphere of life, especially in rural and undeveloped environments, the environment of Bosilegrad, where I come from. Where there is no investment, where people have no business, like in my area, where people are poor, social protection needs to be approached responsibly and systematically. Making social maps is now a way to build a system that will result in organised and fair social protection. The percentage of poor people in social needs is vice-proportional to the degree of development at local, regional and state level. Like I said, my end is devastated. There are many users of social assistance on various grounds and my fellow citizens deserve their problems to be solved preventively, systematically, in a fair and transparent manner. I keep in mind that the state for poor municipalities, like ours, is giving out a solid amount of money, is just a question of who will and how these funds will spend. In the past, the state has been working and today is working on economic empowerment and strengthening the economy, supported by foreign investors, through support from small and medium-sized enterprises. Many local self-governments heard about it, exploited the state's support, brought investors to their places, opened factories and hired their fellow citizens. However, there are also those who have failed to do so. In many places, as in my place, factories stand empty, collapse and collapse, and social work centres become the biggest employers, i.e. in the back of the budget, there are gaps and weaknesses in the part of the economy and economic recovery. This is exactly what is destroying the real sector, and it is high time that special attention is paid to small and underdeveloped environments, especially where local self-government has no capacity to deal with challenges. In addition to making social maps, it should continue to strengthen the economy in poor and underdeveloped areas, strengthening the real sector, reducing the number of unemployed. Social maps are important because they will facilitate and enable access to social assistance for those who really need it. Those who are able to work and are in social need will gradually move from the categories of poor or from a group of people in the social needs of the real sector, where instead of social help they will live from their work and from the results of their work. Our municipality, as one of the most underdeveloped in Serbia, has been spending years out of its budget a solid amount of money for social needs, even up to a fifth of its budget, and that money is shared with those who are estimated to be in social need. The vast majority of these members are healthy, real, workable, except these people don't have employment opportunities. For two decades in my neighborhood, that number of people has been increasing all the time. People engage through the Social Work Centre under various voluntary contracts to do something. For this work, they receive compensation of about 12,000, with which they survive, without insurance, internships, taxes and contributions. In this way, money from the budget has been spent for nearly two decades, and the problem is not solved, but is increasing and deepening, as the cause is not solved, but only the consequences are resolved. People are still out of work, still in social need, without internships, so they can't expect a pension under the old days. So those faces will remain in social need for life. I remind you, this is about healthy and workable faces. In particular, they are women, members of the Roma population, and people of adult and serious age. It is therefore very important, in addition to paying particular attention to social protection, on the other hand, to strengthen the real sector, which would permanently solve most of the problem. In particular, in my neighborhood, if part of the funding spent on social giving, if it were directed to the real sector, we wouldn't have people today who are out of work in social need. Our community would be richer and more developed. So now by making social cards, we get a register containing all the necessary data from every potential social security user. In addition to the property situation, we have a cross-breeding and networking of social status data, about education, material, psychophysical status, about family and family relationships. So, a complete picture that reflects the objective state. In this way, social protection users will not in future depend on anyone's will and subjective assessment of individuals and various committees, which have not always been objective, but will receive assistance in a much simpler, more transparent and fairer way than before. In the end, in voting day, of course I will support this very important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2946	Thank you. The last speaker for today, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, before your law officially entered the procedure of the National Assembly, it was already under attack. Don't be surprised by the former regime. And you were attacked by the former regime, even though you weren't a minister, you weren't even involved in politics during that period. The question should always be asked – why is a certain law that really defines a single substance that is relevant to one part of our society's attack? I'll tell you, because there's been a lot of abuse. And believe me, these abuses went so far as to grant themselves social aid. That's for sure, I even have the information that this was happening. Now that we get to the application of this law and when we network this law with the Law of Origin of Assets, I think the number of social users will help significantly reduce. We still have a problem, so to speak, with a deep state, which has installed the former regime and Dragan Gilas. Let's just say one thing – it happens in the Old Town municipality. The Old Town Social Work Center. You have examples and examples that the Centre’s workers helped to kidnap parents from children and materially violated the Law of Administrative Procedure. Don't let anyone tell me it wasn't done for money. So Bastache and the crew, wherever they could, they took that money in any way. To give someone a privilege that doesn't belong to him only works for money if he is entrusted with public authority. This was happening at the Old Town Social Work Center. Why? Well, let's say that the person of the age, that's a bit of a dementia, is going to be made documentation that someone takes care of that person, taking his significant pension, has his significant assets. When it is materially proven that it is not done as it is expected, our Centre for Social Work in the Old City is silent and does not take any action to protect the person who has already become a protégé of the Centre and the property that the person has. I'll get you the paperwork. If inspection controls are made and I'm right, then I'm going to ask what about those who have done this abuse, because I don't think they're worthy of doing anything in any way for the state or for the citizens, because it's a shame. It's a great shame that the money that the state spends on a part of the population such as social aid, someone abuses it from there, even though it doesn't really need it, gets some means to say, well, find it for his allowance. How the Republic of Serbia's budget is brought you can see for yourself that the funds that are intended for social protection are increasing. You know how they comment on it from the former regime? A politician whose time the government was built on a highway, a school built, a hospital made should not be applauded, because he only returns the money that the citizens gave him. If we're hypothetically in agreement, and I'm asking the question, the same ones who wrote it and who's been going through social networks, and what about the former regime and the politicians who stole the money? What do we do with them? Shall we give them a round of applause? Or are we going to applaud politicians who made sure that the economy started working, that citizens get paid, that pensioners get pensions, that the public debt is reduced, that we have funds for investment? They don't have a right. They have no right to political support for the citizens they work for. That's how the former regime represents it. That's why I started. You've already been attacked, although you haven't been involved in politics, because the former regime wants to come to power, to continue where it left off, to continue the robbery. We are well aware that, when this law is combined with the Law on the Investigation of the Origin of Property, many things will prove that one of these laws had to be passed before. The former regime is always trying to transfer it to a political field and that everything that Aleksandar Vukic as president of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Branabic as Prime Minister, you, as minister, do as a minister, be a political pamphlet and, however you have good results, that story will come down to it. How serious are they that they want to come to power? I have just read in public information that Marinika Tepic said Vela Nevolja was supported by the SNS, as he organised some baklads during the state of emergency. The torch isn't hard to buy, anyone can. It's not too hard to start, if you're a minor, you know you're safe from fire. Will someone tell me that each of us here can attack police officers with fences, rocks, not stones, like it was for Ivandan last year? He can't. He can't. First, most of us don't even have that much courage. The other thing is, there's no mental circuit like that to attack a police officer who's equipped with means of forcing force. Who can do that? Just gang cheerleaders and hooligans. They must have made that assessment that they should also get a sniper, because it's obvious that the stones aren't helping. Where did they get the idea of a sniper? Well, I mean Milan Culibrk. Right? That famous NIN front page. Why? Just for the money. Because of the government that would get the money, nothing more. They don't care what the social status of the population really is. They don't care if our citizens, our workers work or don't work, it's only important to get money. Unlike 2012 and Alexander Vukic, our goal is to make money for social protection and assistance more, but to make the user as little as possible, to create such a society, not where two, three tycoons, Solak and Gilas and that famous boss Miskovic will consider Serbia their private property. I can do that, but no more in this life and no more in this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-02-09-0.u2948	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, there are also no registered representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, as well as the committee's rapporteurs, ministers, do you want anything? No, I don't. I thank you. I really want to thank the minister for spending the whole day here with us, and I want to inform you, since we are at the end of the principled search of the bill, as much as I have been told from the service, that there is no amendment to this proposed bill, so we will have no need to discuss in particular, so I thank the minister. I hope they have more useful and extremely good laws for our citizens. We continue to work tomorrow, and in line with the proposal to merge the agenda points, and tomorrow we will discuss the proposed international agreements, and the day after that, it will be a day to vote. Count on us to work until Thursday, and for today, I'm concluding a principled search of the bill. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs reported. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are currently 149 MPs in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of the National MP of Ugljesa Markovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin, Interior Minister Aleksandar Zivkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Zoran Lazic, Deputy Secretary of the Interior Ministry, Milan Rankovic, Deputy Defence Minister Zoran Lazarov, Assistant Minister of the Interior, Head of the Department of International Cooperation, European Affairs and Planning and Colonel Miroslav Glisic of the International Military Co-operation Administration at the Ministry of Defence. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotto on co-operation in the area of defence and the Bill on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Co-operation in the area of combating migrant smuggling. I'm guessing that the motionary's representative, Minister Vulin, will turn around. I would like to congratulate all the state authorities headed by the President of the Republic, of course, the Ministry of Interior, BIA and the Prosecutor's Office on the successful action of arresting a large organised criminal group. The Mafia, of course, is a cancer for society as a whole, and the National Assembly can only welcome and support such activities. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
